My question is directed  to the Minister for Defence. Does the Government still intend to take delivery of the F111A aircraft? If so, when can delivery be expected? 
The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  in the statement he made this morning said: 
The officer concerned left Rabaul to proceed on his normal recreation leave. His leave had been authorised by the Administrator orally on 26th November and this was formally confirmed in writing on 24th December. He was entitled to 142 days recreation leave on 8th February, has taken only S weeks and will resume duty at Rabaul on 16th March. 
That paragraph is undoubtedly a quotation from the recreation file or the personal file of  Mr West  and in that file I think perhaps should be noted the alleged pending transfer of  Mr West  from Rabaul to some other station. Standing order 321 states: 
A document relating to the public affairs quoted from by a Minister, unless stated to be of a confidential nature or such as should more properly be obtained by address, shall, if required by any Member, be laid on the Table. 
Under that standing order I ask that the personal file of  Mr West,  the officer under discussion, be laid on the Table in order to show the House and the nation whether the statement made by the Minister for External Territories or the statements made by my leader, the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  are true. The allegations made by the three members of my Party have been denied by the Minister and denied by Government back bench members. There is truth involved in this situation. It can be resolved. I am not going into the other allegations that have been made at all but the allegation - and this was quoted on a couple of occasions in the Minister's speech - that the Leader of the Opposition had said that  Mr West  was withdrawn for this and earlier incidents. The Leader of the Opposition has made a statement. The Minister for External Territories has made a counter-statement. It can easily and quickly be resolved if the Minister is prepared to table the documents from which he has undoubtedly quoted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  I wish to say that there is a problem here in the sense that if the Minister replies he will close the debate. 
I feel that I have to press this point. The standing order states - 
Yes, I have spoken. But the Minister, under standing order 321, unless he states the document to be of a confidential nature - 
The personal record of  Mr West  from which he has quoted - the 142 days of recreation leave. 
On the point of order raised by the Prime Minister: I fail to see how anyone can claim that when a Minister comes into this House and says that a man, an officer of his Department, had been told orally on 26th November that his leave was authorised, that that information was confirmed in writing on 24th December, that the officer had 142 days recreation leave which commenced on 8th February and would conclude on 16th March, he is not quoting from the personal file and history of the officer concerned. The Minister would not have that information available to him unless the documents in which they were shown had been made available either to him or to one of his officers. I submit that there is prima facie evidence that the Minister has quoted from official documents. 
It is rarely that I take the opportunity to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the House. Before I do so I try to discuss with the Minister concerned the matter that 1 intend to raise. I try also to give the Minister at least 12 hours notice before I speak on the adjournment. I have followed that practice on this occasion. I spoke to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  this morning and told him that I intended to raise the matter that I discussed with him last Thursday evening. Some 2 years ago a foreman mechanic of the PostmasterGeneral's Department workshops in Sydney reported private firms to his superior officers for performing mechanical work on PMG vehicles when the PMG workshops were capable, willing and able to perform such work. The foreman alleged that the work of the private firms was being performed at greater cost and less efficiently than it could have been done in the PMG workshops. The foreman received no reply to his report. He submitted several reports over a period of months. He received no acknowledgement of or reply to any of his submissions, so in January 1969 he submitted a stronger report. Again he received no reply. He followed up that report with a further report in March 1969. Again he received no reply. From all appearances no investigations or inquiries were made into the allegations that he was making. 
Then, for him, the trouble started. Two investigation officers appeared in his office in May 1969 to query him on alleged falsification of overtime returns. On 3rd July 1969 the foreman was notified of his suspension from duty under section 55 and section 62 of the Public Service Act. A copy of charges under section 29  b  of the Crimes Act against him to be heard before the court was enclosed. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard copies of the letters that he received charging him under section 62 and under section 55 of the Public Service Act and of the charges he was to face before the court. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Are pay, recreation leave and long service leave entitlements of- the Royal Australian Navy based on any Federal or State award. 
If so what is the award. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Have any cases of alleged black market dealings, manipulation of currency or smuggling of. arms to the Vietcong by Australian servicemen in Vietnam been brought to the notice of the Australian Ambassador by the United States Security Services. 
If so, what action was taken in each case. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is it the usual practice for Army personnel returning from duty with the Australian Army Training Team in Vietnam to be posted to vacancies with rank equivalent to the temporary rank they held in Vietnam. 
Has there been any case in which this practice has not been followed. 
If so, what were the reasons for the departure from practice. 
 Mr Speaker,  I had a deep admiration for the late Jim Fraser as a friend, as a colleague in Caucus, as a husband and as a father. Jim Fraser surpassed in each of these aspects of life the rigorous standards that should be imposed on all men. lt was in Caucus for 17 years that I knew him best. We were together in some turbulent times but in all those times Jim Fraser exhibited the same excellent qualities of character that he exhibited everywhere else that he moved. He was a man of independent and determined thoughts.  His  decisions were made after thorough consideration and having made them he was never swayed by any type of pressure. He stood straight against any odds. He was beholden to no man; yet was a man of extreme good will. He expressed ail his opinions openly and forthrightly and granted the same privilege to those of different thoughts. He was a true Labor man as his parliamentary life has shown. 
To  Mrs Fraser,  his son Andrew, his brother Allan and other members of the family I express my deepest and sincerest sympathy. I will miss him as a friend and colleague in Caucus. I earnestly pray: 
Eternal rest grant unto him, O Lord. May perpetual light shine upon him. May his soul and the souls of all the faithful departed rest in peace. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether a well-known Australian insurance company has been inducing Navy personnel to enter into life policies by misrepresenting benefits available to them. 
If so, can he state whether it is claimed by the agent that accident benefits are available even while on active service when such is not the case. 
If the position is as stated, has any action been taken by this Department against the insurance company concerned; if so, what was the result. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that many migrants are refused recognition or a licence as a tradesman upon arrival in Australia. 
Are adequate precautions taken in overseas posts to ensure that intending migrants with trade skills fully understand the requirements for recognition as tradesmen in Australia. 
by leave- 1 was a member of the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications. One of the recommendations we found necessary was that the Printing Committee of each House should have more teeth. We found during the course of our investigation that departments were able to print large size volumes on glossy paper with extravagant pictorials. Other departments were printing their publications on paper which could be described only as inferior. Some departments were producing really high class, high cost annual reports. The Printing Committee had no say and no authority at all over those reports. A Treasury committee was supposed to investigate the cost of the publications and their distribution, but the Select Committee ascertained that this Treasury committee also was virtually impotent. One or two of the departments, in particular the Department of Trade and Industry, took very little, if any, notice of the Treasury Publications Committee. In order to give the Printing Committee of both Houses greater authority to safeguard the interests of the people in the cost of publications and to improve the general standards of the publications this recommendation was made. 
I regret that I did not have a copy of the statement before the Minister made it. 
I was given some warning that he would be making this statement but I did not get a copy of it until such time as he started to read it. I do not think that the Opposition will have any objection to this proposal. From what I can gather it still has to be adopted by the Standing Orders Committee of this House. 1 feel that the Opposition will support the motion because it is necessary to give the Printing Commitee of the Parliament greater authority than it has had. As I said, the Treasury found that some departments were not prepared to give information about the cost of publications which they were putting out, and that they were not prepared to allow the Government Printer to print the publications but wanted to have them done by private firms. I feel that the Joint Printing Committee should be given the authority to send for the responsible Minister or the departmental head or officer responsible and to say:Your reports are far too elaborate. They are costing too much. You are going in for too many glossy pictures in colour. You will have to come back to the standard required by the Printing Committee.' I commend the motion to the Standing Orders Committee and to the House. 
I move: 
That  the  ruling  be dissented from.  (Mr Stewart having submitted in writing his objection to the ruling)  - 

 - Mr Speaker, I regret very much having taken the action that I have taken. I regret it because last evening in this House we had incidents that I have never seen in the 16 years that I have been here and that most of the officers of the Parliament have not seen while they have been here. When I was speaking to my point of order I quoted from the Standing Orders of the Australian Parliament. Standing order 173 says quite clearly that every amendment must be relevant to the question it is proposed to amend. There is absolutely no relevance at all in the amendment we are now discussing. 
The original motion is a censure of the actions of the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  not last night but in his mishandling of the business of the House and his repeated failure to honour agreements made between the Government and the Opposition. The amendment takes the debate away from a general subject, the activities of the Leader of the House, and makes it a specific subject, the activities of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  last night in the House. There cannot be any relevance at all between those two topics. The standing order is quite clear. I submit that it is your duty,  Mr Speaker,  to interpret the Standing Orders and, according to standing order 173, an amendment must be relevant to the question it is proposed to amend. 
I quoted May to show that in the House of Commons rulings have been given which are similar to the one which I asked you to give earlier. In the booklet 'Business and Procedures of the House of Representatives', published by the Parliament, at page 24 the following passage appears: 
The following amendments are out of order: 
an amendment which is merely an expanded negative. 
It does not refer to a direct negative. 1 do not claim that the amendment is a direct negative at all, but I do claim that it can be regarded as an expanded negative. It takes one topic and changes it completely to negate the original topic. Either Parliament is run in accordance with the rules of debate and in line with the description of business and procedures of the House of Representatives, or it is not run at all. Last night's incident occurred because the conduct of the House has been taken completely and utterly out of your hands,  Mr Speaker,  by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the House. You have no jurisdiction over the number of times the gag is moved. You have no jurisdiction at all over what business will come into the House. When they move the gag they look at you and they look at us with supercilious grins on their faces saying, in effect: We have the numbers; what can you do about it?' We showed last night what we can do about it. 
We regret what we did last night, but unless the Government changes its attitude towards this democratic institution and this democratically elected Opposition there will be more incidents like last night's. Unless you exercise your authority - I have every reason to believe that you are a man of some honour, integrity and bravery, but you must show it in the chair - not only you will be derided but this House of Parliament will be derided. It is up to you to exercise your authority. Admittedly you have been appointed by the Government. It elected you at a party meeting but once you became- 
You are selected by the Government and appointed by the House, and having been appointed by the House your subservience to any political party no longer exists. You are a completely independent and impartial person in the chair. We pay you our respects when we leave the House and when we come into the House. We treat you generally with the utmost respect and honour but unless you uphold the traditions of the House and the Standing Orders you will have many more dissent motions moved against you and you will find that this Opposition will not be nearly as tame as it has been in the past. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for Evans I point out that this is a motion of dissent. I am dissenting from an opinion expressed by the Chair. If the Chair is wrong I am entitled to suggest it is wrong. I was about to say that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  interjected. In this House there is nobody tougher; there is no crueller Minister alive. Look what he did to the- 
I come back to the motion of dissent,  Mr Speaker,  and say that the ruling you have just given, on the advice you have received, is completely contrary to the facts of the situation and to every parliamentary procedure that I have quoted. I refer back to standing order 173 which says most clearly and precisely that an amendment must be relevant to the motion. 
DrJ. F. CAIRNS (Lalor) [4.43]-  Mr Speaker,  I seconded the motion. I did so after I had tried to follow the reason for your ruling. As I understand it you have held that the censure motion is not a motion under standing order 110, which says: 
A motion of which notice has been given which expresses a censure of or want of confidence in the Government and is accepted by a Minister as a censure or want of confidence motion shall, until it is disposed of by the House, take precedence of all other business. 
Clearly this is not a censure of the Government and, if we were forced to read this motion as a censure not under that standing order, it could be argued that the amendment would not bc excluded and therefore could go in. If this was an ordinary motion, like any other motion moved in the House, an amendment could certainly be moved. I would think, if that was the reasoning behind your ruling, it would be sound. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has had an opportunity to study the proposals contained in the report from the Senate Standing Orders Committee which was prepared by  Mr Odgers,  the  Clerk  of the Senate, and presented to that chamber on 17th March. Has any consideration been given to the preparation of a similar report for the benefit of members of this House? If not, will he arrange, as a matter of urgency, to have such a report prepared and submitted? Will he also consider arranging for a thorough review of the procedures and practices in this Parliament? 
During last week there were unprecedented happenings in this House. Some people in the community are inclined to think that the Labor Opposition was entirely to blame for what happened. Tonight I intend to deal with 3 things that are happening, not only to back bench members of the Opposition but also to back bench members of the Government, in order to show that the Labor Opposition was almost entitled to do what it did last Wednesday and Thursday. Over the last 2 or 3 years 1 have been completely dissatisfied with the treatment that ] have been receiving in regard to written representations I have made to Ministers of this Government  On  behalf of my constituents. I have no intention this evening of naming the Ministers concerned in the breaches of courtesy, efficiency and protocol that have taken place as far as I am concerned. But I intend to say tonight that, if the position does not improve and if the written representations that I make to Ministers are not answered far more swiftly than they have been answered in the past, the next time I speak on this matter I will name the Ministers concerned. 
I wish to complain about the length of time that it takes for Ministers of this Government to answer representations made to them, and 1 now intend to quote examples which are aimed at 5 or 6 different Ministers. The first one is a letter written on 11th February this year. An acknowledgment was received to that letter, certainly, but there was no reply. A follow up letter was written by me on 24th March and I received a reply 5 or 6 days later. 1 wrote a letter to another Minister on 12th December 1969 and a follow up letter was written by me in January 1970, and another follow up letter was written by me in February, and still I received no final reply. 1 also wrote a letter on 4th February this year, a follow up letter on 10th March, another follow up letter on 18th March, and a reply was received on 23 rd March. To another Minister a letter was written on 16th February, a follow up letter on 2nd April, and still no final reply has been received. There was a letter written by me to another Minister on 20th January, a follow up by me in March, another follow up by me in April, and still no final reply has been received to that letter. 
All these representations,  Mr Speaker,  have been made to different Ministers. These are only 5 examples that 1 have picked out of my files of 10 or 12 cases in which it has taken no less than 8 weeks - 10 weeks in some instances - after 2 or 3 follow ups, and even a telegram in some cases, asking for a reply. Yet 1 have not received a reply for up to 3 months after the initial representations, lt does not matter how Ministers treat mc. I am almost used to it now after 16 years in this Parliament, but I complain because not only do the M inisters let me down but they also let down my constituents, and if 1 let down my constituents they are entitled to blame mc for not having done anything at all in ihe matter. 1 rarely write to a Minister unless I have already approached the relevant department and received from it a policy decision to say that this thing cannot be done. I then approach the Minister and I expect from the Minister greater courtesy and more prompt replies than I am receiving. 1 think 1 am speaking not only on behalf of the members on our side of the House but also a number of members on the Government side of the House. 1 might add at this stage that when I send my representations - whether they are to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme),  or any other Minister - in most instances 1 receive an acknowledgment from the private secretary. I do not complain about the private secretary writing the reply to me, but my constituent comes to me as a member of the Federal Parliament. I write to the Minister but the Minister has insufficient courtesy even to sign the acknowledgment addressed to me. In many instances it is a Minister acting for the Minister concerned who sends the final acknowledgment back to me. If the Government is treating members of the Opposition in this way it is also treating supporters of the Government in this way. lt is not good enough. I bow to no man and I do not use my authority unless I have to use it. If I write to a Minister I expect him to give me the courtesy of a reply under his own signature. That is the first complaint I make tonight. I intended to make this speech during the course of last week but because of the situation which developed I did not make it. I make it tonight because I feel that it is essential that the people of Australia should know how the ordinary member of Parliament is being treated by the members who sit on the front bench on the Government side of the chamber. 
The next point that I come to is the matter of questions without notice - the questions that we ask in the Parliament. Since 1945 there has been no increase in the amount of time allocated to questions without notice. In all that time we have had something like 45 minutes allowed for questions without notice. In 1945 Parliament consisted of 75 members, 49 of whom belonged to the Australian Labor Party which was then the Government, and 24 of whom were in the Liberal-Country Party Opposition. In the 1955 Parliament, which was increased to 123 members, still only 45 minutes of questions without notice were allowed. The Government then had 65 members and the Labor Opposition had 58. In 1961 there were 124 members in the Parliament. The Government had 62 members and The Opposition, including the members for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, had 62, and there was the  Speaker  in the Chair. Still only 45 minutes were allowed for questions without notice. 
In 1967 and 1968 the average number of questions asked without notice in each sitting was 19. In 1969, the last year of the previous Parliament, the average dropped to 18. The average for the present Parliament, in the 3 or 4 weeks in which it has been sitting, is still only 18. Since 1945 the numbers in the House have increased from 75 to 125, but no extra time has been allowed for questions without notice. That means that Opposition members and Government back bench members are allowed 9 questions per day or 27 questions a week. Each back bench member of the Parliament is therefore entitled to one question every 9 days, at the very best. 
Yes- 3 weeks of Parliament. Question time in this Parliament is supposed to be the highlight of the Parliament. It is supposed to be the opportunity for the ordinary member of Parliament to interrogate the Ministers on the administration of their Departments. 
asked the Minister for Health upon notice: 
Can he say whether the medical profession generally accept the proposition that cigarette smoking is associated with the illnesses of lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema and gastric and duodenal ulcers. 
Is there evidence to indicate that the consumption of cigarettes is increasing. 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, by his Department to curb the habit of cigarette smoking. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon novice: (J.) Did the National Health and Medical Research Council recommend to Commonwealth and State Ministers for Health (a) that all cigarette packets should carry a warning of the danger of smoking and a statement indicating the tar and nicotine content of the cigarette and (b) the restriction on all forms of advertising of cigarettes. 
What action has been taken in the Commonwealth and the States on these recommendations. 
Does the Commonwealth intend to ban cigarette advertising on radio and television. 
Has the attention of the Minister for National Development been drawn to the fact that in the last week 2 papers to be delivered to symposiums by employees of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission have been cancelled? Is it a fact that both these papers related to the environmental effects of the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay? Was the first paper on the agenda of the recent symposium of the Ecological Society of Australia and was it entitled 'Ecological Factors in the Siting, Design and Operation of a Nuclear Power Station'? Was the second paper to be delivered at a symposium this week organised by the Committee on Social Responsibility in Science? Was it to have been delivered by the  Deputy  Director at Lucas Heights? What are the reasons for the apparent attempt by the Atomic Energy Commission to suppress public debate on these issues? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say (a) how many people are employed in the Australian clothing industry  and  (b) what proportion is (i) male and (ii) female. 
What is the capital investment in the industry. 
Is the clothing industry a reasonably decentralised industry. 
ls the industry efficient. 
Are some sections of the industry experiencing grave difficulties from imports from countries which are noted for low wages and poor working conditions. 
What is the intention of the Government regarding protection for (his industry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement in the answer which the Minister for Health gave me on 26th September 1969 (Hansard, page 2162) that reliable figures on the number of registered nursing personnel in Australia are not available. 
What steps is the Commonwealth Statistician talcing to secure reliable figures on this subject. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Have any investigations been conducted into alleged black market dealings, manipulations of currency or smuggling of arms to the Viet Cong by members of the Australian Forces in Vietnam. 
If so, (a) how many of these investigations were made, (b) what was the offence under investigation, (c) what was the finding in each case and (d) what action was taken against the offending serviceman or servicemen. 
On 26th September 1969, after the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had made a statement announcing the Government's decision to lend S80m to Queensland towards the cost of a power station in central Queensland, the Leader of "the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
Naturally the Australian Labor Party welcomes the Commonwealth's participation in the provision of electricity in central Queensland, which is an area where power 'lias been hardest to come by and is the most expensive in Australia. I should think that it would be quite clear to honourable members . . . that power was the determining factor in the development of the natural resources in the area and the attraction of greater human resources to the area. 
He continued: 
The only misgiving I have about the announcement is that the advance - it is nol a grant - seems to be on much less favourable terms than the Commonwealth has hitherto made for its advances for similar purposes in other places. ... the financing of the project causes misgivings to my Party in t' at the advance is for a shorter period and at a higher rate of interest than is applied to railway and other projects outlined in the Budget document entitled 'Commonwealth Payments to or for the Stales 1969-70'. The project is, of course, an admirable one and should' help to achieve without delay the objectives, material and human, that the Prime Minister very properly expressed. 
Those sentiments are still the sentiments of members of the Australian Labor Party. I intend to outline the general attitude of our Party towards the financing of major developmental works in the States of the Commonwealth. In his policy speech for the 1969 Federal elections the Leader of the Opposition said: 
To place financing of new development projects on a continuing basis a'nd to take projects cut of the realm of electioneering, we will establish a Development Revolving Fund. This fund will apply revenue from existing projects to new ones. Within 4 years the Snowy Mountains projects alone will be making $42m net each year from electricity users in Victoria and New South Wales. By then another $10m will be coming back to the Commonwealth each year from railway projects it has hitherto financed in Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales and water projects in New South Wales, Tasmania and Victoria. The fund will allow the Commonwealth to assist in such rail, power and water projects as I have mentioned. 
We will establish a Ministry for Northern Development.  Mr Chifley  regularly conferred with the Premiers of Queensland and Western Australia on northern development.  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Mr Holt  and  Mr Gorton  never did. I shall. 
The new department will accept responsibility for the conservation of the unique national assets and tourist attractions of central Australia and north Queensland. 
While the Opposition welcomes the Agreement it is far from satisfied with the amount of information given by the Prime Minister or contained in the Agreement. We feel that before the Parliament is requested to ratify an agreement paying out more than S80m of taxpayers money, far more information should be made available. The Prime Minister's first statement in September 1969 took approximately 5 minutes to deliver.  His  second reading speech on this Bill took 11 minutes. The Agreement signed by the Prime Minister and the Premier of Queensland deals solely with the terms and conditions under which the loan is made. The Parliament has not been told what companies are expected to use the 600 megawatts of electricity for export oriented industries. We have no knowledge of the ownership and control of these companies, lt would be a safe bet that most will be foreign owned and controlled and that the profits from their activities will be sent away from Australia. The Parliament has been given no information about the charges for the electricity. In his second reading speech on 14th April this year the Prime Minister said: 
Naturally the negotiations between the Queensland Government and the companies concerned arc confidential. 
The Opposition thinks that the Parliament is entitled to have this information before being requested to ratify the Agreement. The average charge per kilowatt hour for electricity in Queensland in 1966-67 was: Residential rate - 2.05c; commercial rate - 3.12c; industrial rate - 1.79c. Queensland's industrial rate for electricity is the highest of any State. Its residential and commercial rates are the second highest of any State. The Opposition would like to know whether the arrangements with the unknown company or companies offer a lower price for electricity than is being offered to industries in other parts of the State. 
Another matter that concerns us is the indefinite scope of works to which this loan will apply. The construction of the power station is rather definite but associated facilities and transmission are tacked on and these are significantly indefinite and costly. After electricity has been generated it must be transmitted. At what voltage will the electricity from the Gladstone power station be generated - 66 kilovolt, 132 kilovolt or 330 kilovolt? How far will the electricity be transmitted for the favoured companies? Will the Queensland electricity authority transmit the power to a company no matter how far it is established away from the power station? Will the electricity authority construct the necessary substations and transform the electricity down to a usable voltage? In summary, will the Government transmit the power to the front doorstep of the companies or will it tell the companies that the power is at Gladstone and they should come and get it? 
What is the break-up of charges? We have been given absolutely no information on this aspect. How much will generation cost? How much will transmission and distribution cost? How will the favoured companies get their power? Another significant point arises: The Bill refers to transmission whereas the Prime Minister referred in his speech to local reticulation. These terms, 1 am informed, mean different things to electrical engineers. Transmission refers to the transmitting of bulk power at high voltage. Local reticulation can be taken to embrace not only transmission but also distribution of power at lower voltages to company townships or even throughout company properties. What arrangements have been made or will be made by the Queensland Government for transmission and reticulation? The Prime Minister gave no explanation for the preferential treatment which is being extended to the unknown companies in this case. What does this development possess which makes it different from other industrial and mining developments in other remote areas of Australia? Some of the companies developing in those remote areas have been expected to provide their own power, but in this instance more than $155m of Commonwealth and State money is being used, lt is as good as a loan to the companies concerned. This raises another point: Has the Commonwealth Government or the State Government requested any concessions from the favoured companies for an equity in the ownership in those companies? Has cither government requested or been granted any other concession by the companies or are all of the advantages to go in the one direction with only the intangibles going to the governments and the people of Queensland? 
There are further queries which 1 wish to raise. I note that the State Electricity Commission of Queensland has authority to own and operate generating stations but does not do  so.  fs the Commonwealth Government satisfied that the generation, transmission and reticulation of electricity in Queensland is being operated as efficiently and economically as possible. What generating authority in Queensland will control this new power station? Is this station being provided as part of a co-ordinating group in. the State of Queensland? I request the 
Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is at the table, to answer the queries that I have raised or, at least, to guarantee that all of them were considered by the Government before the signing of this agreement. 
I now make some comments on the agreement. In his second reading speech, the Prime Minister announced that the amount of the original loan would be S80m and that the loan could now be exceeded if the estimated cost for the power station of S155m, made in 1968, be exceeded. It seems reasonable to assume that this price will now be greater than we have been given. But we have been given no up to date estimate of the anticipated cost, only a formula that die Commonwealth Government will advance 80/155ths of the total cost. The Opposition would like to see something far more definitive. The cost of the Chowilla Dam has been estimated when the agreement relating to that project had been signed. But the project had to be discarded or, at least, postponed because of escalating costs. The Opposition would like to be assured that this will not be the case with this power station at Gladstone. 
The loan originally was to have been made available over a 6-year period. But we now find that the period is to date from 16th September 1969 to 30th June 1977, a total of 7 years 9 months. This seems to indicate that the construction of the power station is estimated now to take longer than was at first anticipated. The longer the construction rates the greater will be the cost. I do not suggest that the Commonwealth Government needs to be too strict on time limits for construction. But I do believe that the House should be given an assurance that the work will be carried out as expeditiously and economically as possible. 
Clause 3 of the agreement appears to load everything in favour of the Commonwealth. This clause reads: 
The Commonwealth shall not be required to make any payments under this agreement unless and until the State produces evidence satisfactory to the Minister that the State has entered into or proposes to enter into agreements, arrangements or options for the consumption of electrical power by organisations which will have in the aggregate a total requirement of installed generating capacity of approximately 600 megawatts of the proposed capacity of the said thermal station. For the purposes of this clause 'organisations' means companies or persons who operate or control or plan to operate or control industrial enterprises in Central Queensland which will export a substantial proportion of their products or will produce goods of a kind which will be supplied to industries producing goods predominantly for export. 
I appreciate that both the Commonwealth and Queensland governments are confident that the 600 megawatts will be required by industrial organisations. But the delays or failure to reach agreement could place the Queensland Government in an invidious and embarrassing position. It seems to me that this clause also weakens the negotiating position of the Queensland Government in its dealings with the industrial enterprises which might be interested in establishing an industry in central Queensland. It could easily force the Queensland Government to give better terms on price of power and conditions to the companies to ensure that the 600 megawatt reserve is reached. In this event the return to the Queensland Government would not be nearly as high as anticipated and the ordinary Queensland taxpayer could be forced to shoulder an added responsibility. 
As I said, I appreciate that both governments are confident that industry will come to the area as soon as low cost power is provided. The Queensland Government is so confident that already it has sought an assurance on the availability of additional finance to enlarge the capacity of the power station should this be necessary. On behalf of the Opposition I give an assurance that if either tough negotiating on the part of industrial enterprises for better terms and conditions or influx of major power-using industries faster than anticipated causes embarrassment to the Queensland Government, a Federal Labor government would grant immediate financial assistance to the Queensland Government. The Australian Labor Party believes in the development of Australia even if, in some instances, the facilities have to be provided before the demand appears. 
I now have some general comments on interest charges on loans from the Commonwealth to the States for the development of this and similar projects. I am indebted to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who will be the Treasurer of the Commonwealth after the next election, for the preparation of these notes. In Australia the various State governments own all the electric power resources, either directly operated as government departments or more usually organised as statutory corporations or commissions, or in a series of regional boards. The proposed power house construction at Gladstone, to have a capacity of 1,100 megawatts, is to be a State undertaking. The capital construction of such undertakings is substantial. For instance, at 30th June 1969 the State Electricity Commission of Victoria had fixed assets, on a depreciation basis, of approximately $ 1,000m. The project envisaged here involves capital expenditure over an approximate 8 years of SI 55m. 
The capital raising problems of electrical undertakings are well expressed in this extract from the 'Jubilee History of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria': 
And the Commission was estimating in 1955/56 that it would have to spend at least $570 million in the next nine years, more than it had spent in its whole thirty-six years ot existence. 
In fact, it did, and also met about $80 million of loan redemption. 
In this, it was aided by an improved loan market which provided nearly $320 million; it received over $S0 million in loans from the State Government, and higher tariffs brought in $140 million. 
At the end of that nine year period it was producing nearly 20 per cent more power than was originally planned. 
Today, despite actual competition from oil and the potential rivalry of natural gas, discovered in 1965, the Commission expects to stabilise within a few years, at a rate of increase somewhat less than that to which it has been accustomed. 
This means a doubled electricity demand every ten years - with expenditure to match. 
This passage indicates that capital money became available in Victoria from 3 sources. The position is broadly similar elsewhere. The 3 sources are: Firstly, direct borrowing in the market by the authority; secondly, advances from State funds; and, thirdly, the excess of revenue over expenditure in the running of the undertaking. 
The first 2 of course involve an interest component which becomes part of the cost of operating. The third source involves charging more to electricity users than actual production costs. In some respects the first 2 sources are akin to debenture finance in a private undertaking. Money is borrowed from outside the business and interest is paid on it. This interest is a cost' to the business. The third source is akin to the profit element in business. There is some difference in that, since the electrical undertaking is a government concern and some of the borrowing is directly from government sources as against direct public raisings, there is therefore some element of 'internal bookkeeping' or a transfer from 1 government pocket to another. This sort of argument is advanced by those who see some justice in the transfer to the States of money which the Commonwealth derives from surplus revenues. The transfers are called loans to the States and bear interest. Also, in regard to the third source which has been likened to the profit element in a private business, the practice in private enterprise is to charge prices high enough not only to cover taxes and profits but also to provide a surplus sufficient to cover the costs of the capital expansion of the business. 
The particular example which we have before us concerning the Gladstone power station comprises a mixture of finance from Commonwealth sources and State sources and, whether or not the Commonwealth funds are surplus revenues or loan funds, interest is to be charged at 6.4%. There is no doubt that if no interest were charged on these funds or if the funds were advanced at a lower rate, the cost of generating electricity could be considerably less. The interest bill on $155m at 6.4% would be in excess of $10m when amortisation is considered. It is difficult, of course, without some projection of costs at the time of production, to determine how significant an element in total cost interest would be. On the other hand, as the only customer at this stage seems to be Comalco, it. is equally difficult to determine where the benefits of lower cost electricity would finally rest. If Comalco could only be induced to Gladstone on a subsidised basis and the benefits of decentralistion were thought to outweigh this cost, then a case could perhaps be made out for subsidy, although it is not really as simple as this because an unwitting advantage could be given to this firm at the expense of somebody else somewhere else, and the fairer method might well be to charge for power at its proper economic price and to pay the equivalent of the interest component, say to the Gladstone municipal authority, to provide community amenities. 
However, in practice the issues are not even as clear cut as this and some other  relevant aspects are brought out in the following extract from a British White Paper on 'The Financial and Economic Obligations of the Nationalised Industries', which was issued by Her Majesty's Stationery Office in 1961: 
If the profitability of capital development is assessed on different (and easier) financial criteria from those adopted in industry generally, there is a risk that too much of the nation's savings will be diverted into the nationalised industries. 
Again, if the prices of the goods and services which the nationalised industries provide are uneconomical^ low, demand for them (and for investment to produce more of them) may be artificially stimulated. 
Thus, the operation of the nationalised industries, with an unduly low rate of return on capital is sooner or later damaging to the economy as a whole. 
A recent book entitled 'Technology, Engineering and Economies', by Philip  sporn makes these observations which are relevant: 
A sound economic evaluation of any major capital project is independent of the social, political or other motivations, and is independent of the particular economic system on which a society is organised. 
If a given society is not to be led astray, and if it is not to make a mess of the indispensible business in the proper allocation of its limited total resources, it is important that the proper - and this means total - costs be used in the evaluation. 
Having done this, the society is then in an excellent position to assign priorities. 
This does not prevent it from upgrading the priority of any socially desirable project at the expense of another less costly. 
But the intelligence and sound judgment with which this will finally be done will always be materially enhanced by having properly determined values and costs. 
Subsidies, desirable and granted, do not change cost. 
A government can, in fact, make money available at no rate of interest - even below zero rate - a low rate of interest or a high rate of interest, but whether it does one rather than the other is not in itself good or better social policy. Good social policy involves a considered examination of many factors, economic as well as social. That, generally, is the attitude that the Labor Opposition will take to financing developmental projects of this type. They will be considered in a priority field and in the interests of the community generally. It will not be done on an electioneering basis, as this Government has done so many times in the years that it has been in office. 
The Parliament has not been given nearly enough information on this project to enable anyone to know whether the interest charges are too high or too low. I repeat that the Parliament should not be expected to approve of an agreement to lend over $80m without having a total cost evaluation before it. The Prime Minister in his second reading speech referred to Queensland as a sleeping giant. The Labor Party believes it is time that that sleeping giant was awakened. The extract from the policy speech of the Labor Party which I quoted earlier in my speech is an indication of the approach we would take. We have every confidence that central Queensland will surpass the most optimistic estimates of its developmental potential. The Prime Minister admitted that the establishment of an aluminium smelter at Gladstone could produce, in a few years, 320,000 tons of aluminium per annum with an export value, at present prices, of approximately SI 65m. The advent of a chemical industry would further enhance the export potential of the area. 
Central Queensland has a vast area of natural resources which are exciting in their magnitude and variety. A look at the report on the resources and industries of centra] Queensland by the Department of National Development and the Queensland Department of Industrial Development shows that this is the case. Central Queensland has a large potential for water conservation schemes and offers good ports and harbours. It can accommodate whatever population is needed to run its industrial complex, support industries and commerce. In raw materials alone it offers coking and non-coking coal, beach sands, salt, pyrites, limestone, copper, nickel, gold, silver, natural gas and several others. Its coal reserves alone are estimated to be in excess of 2,000 million tons and this coal can be used to provide the low cost power to supply power intensive industries. From these industries will come subsidiary industries forming part of an industrial complex almost too great to imagine. 
In the next decade the transport facilities and other services in the area will be under great strain, and the Queensland Government will need to plan with imagination and foresight. Finance will, undoubtedly, be one of its problems, and the Commonwealth 
Government will be called upon for further loans. These must be forthcoming. Australia cannot stand still. It is on the verge of great expansion and all State governments must be in a position to know the terms and conditions under which financial assistance will be granted by the Commonwealth. 
I have given the guidelines of Labor's policy in this direction. It is a policy which shows confidence in Australia and Australians. It is a policy which will gain great returns for both Federal and State governments. Under a Federal Labor government loans for developmental works similar to the Gladstone power station will be a feature of government. We support the agreement, after allowing for the qualifications and criticisms I have outlined. 
asked the Minister for 
Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What method is used to establish the standard price of petrol in Australia. 
by leave-  Mr Speaker,  the Opposition has no objection to the inquiry which the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  has announced. As a matter of fact, I am informed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that we requested an inquiry along the lines that the Minister has approved at some time during the last Parliament. On 7th May of this year, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  asked the Postmaster-General:  . . whether he would be prepared to appoint a select committee of this House, an ad hoc committee of independent persons or the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to conduct  a  public inquiry into the feasibility and desirability of introducing a system of frequency modulation broadcasting into Australia and to report to him on the matter and through him to Parliament and the public. 
My Leader has just handed me a copy of the Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives. This shows that on 6th June 1968 a ministerial statement was presented by the Postmaster-General on this subject. To the motion 'That the House take note of the paper', the Leader of the Opposition moved by way of amendment: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and that in the opinion of this House a Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of frequency modulation broadcasting'. 
This amendment was moved on 6th June 1968. The Postmaster-General has agreed now to appoint an inquiry in response to the request made on 7th May by the honourable member for Bradfield. 
I remember that, on a number of occasions, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  has spoken on the subject of frequency modulation broadcasting. Those who know anything about frequency modulation broadcasting will appreciate that it does give a far better presentation of sound than the techniques that are being used in radio at the moment. The Opposition approves of the appointment of this inquiry and hopes that it will not be long before the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will present its reports and recommendations to the PostmasterGeneral. There is only one other comment that I wish to make. In the final part of his speech, the Postmaster-General said: 
While the report will be made to me it is my intention to make the report available lo honourable members and the public subsequent to its receipt by me. 
I would like the Minister to give an assurance to the House that, when he does make the report public, he will make arrangements also for public debate to take place in this Parliament on that report. 
NAVAL BASE AT COCKBURN SOUND  Sir WILFRID  KENT HUGHES (Chisholm) fi 1.0] - I hope that in future ministerial statements will not be made on private members days. It takes up the time of members who might want to discuss important matters. I move: 
That this House considers that the construction of the naval base at Cockburn Sound should receive high priority on the defence programme and that negotiations should be undertaken with the British Government to base two aircraft carriers on Cockburn Sound after 1970. 
Judging by the question asked  yesterday  by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  it would seem that for once both the Government side of the House and the Opposition are in agreement with regard to one particular item of defence on a very vital matter. I do not doubt that the reasons for the agreement may be somewhat different, although that yet remains to be seen. The subject of building up Cockburn Sound as a naval base was mentioned almost incidentally in the GovernorGeneral's Speech when he said: 
Investigation into the construction of a causeway  to  the naval facilities  to  be built in Western  Australia  has begun, and construction on the development  of  Learmonth airfield in Western Australia  will  shortly start. 
Investigations have been proceeding for a very long time and I feel that by now we should be in a position to get on with the job of the construction of the naval base itself. I speak subject to correction here but I understand that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech also made pointed reference to the importance of Cockburn Sound as a naval base, and in the second last defence statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this House there was a small reference, shall we say, to the question of the defences of the western coast of Australia. For this reason, in view of the fact that we seem to be in agreement on both sides of the House, even if it is for different reasons, someone might say: Why waste the time of the House by moving this motion today? My reasons are, firstly, that I feel that it has not been given sufficient priority in the light of the international situation that exists. Secondly, I rather feel that the Opposition desires the building of this base on account of its policy of Fortress Australia, as against the Government's point of view which I believe is a very much wider perspective. 
The question of filling the vacuum that will be left  in  the Indian Ocean by the withdrawal of the British fleet east of Suez in 1971 is a matter of great strategic and tactical importance to the whole of the Western world. It is not only a question of Australian defence. It is also a question of the defence of our main sea trade route to Europe, which may well be the only sea trade route if disturbances occur which block the Panama Canal as effectively as the Suez Canal has been blocked and closed for years past. The route via the Cape of Good Hope is the only  allweather  route from the Atlantic Ocean to the Indian and Southern O  Jeans  and therefore the action taken for the protection of this route is of vital importance to us, not only from the point of view of trade but also from the point of view of defence. In that respect Cockburn Sound becomes part of the linking of the defence system with the Simonstown base in South Africa. 
We should not on this occasion allow the discussion to be side-tracked on the racist questions and other things of that nature. Let us have a look at this matter from the strategic point of view whatever government there is in South Africa and let us hope that it is a friendly governmnent towards us for a long time to come. In southern Africa from a strategic point of view the Cape route is the back door of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and unless the Western world is going to wake up to the fact that this is of vital importance to the whole of  it  and not only to Australia, the position will be very dangerous. Already resolutions have been passed in the United Nations about the supply of arms to Africa. We have had the British Labor Government abrogating the Simonstown agreement, and as a result the shopping for hardware and the building up of munitions and defence requirements in South Africa have been considerably handicapped. With regard to the Australian position no Australian would for one moment suggest that we alone can attempt to fill the vacuum that will be left with regard to the protection of the Indian Ocean. On the other hand, if we expect other nations to come in and help us with the protection or to partly fill the vacuum, or to supply sufficient force to deter other people from using the Indian Ocean as a means of world conquest, then we have to play our part and stand our share of the cost of the defence. 
In that respect the aerodromes at Pearce and Learmonth and the building up of the naval base at Cockburn Sound are of vital importance. We have been investigating this for a long time and now we propose to build a causeway, but I do not think that is good enough. I do not for one moment suggest that as a result of giving this a higher priority the defence expenditure on behalf of the Navy, or any other defence expenditure, should be curtailed. We have a long shopping list to fill in the gaps on the defence pantry shelves and it will' take some time before we receive the goods. Therefore, as I say, I do not want priority given at the expense of what has already been stated in the defence programme, but I do feel that we should take for granted that we will have to take on the burden of this extra expense by expediting the building up of a naval base at Cockburn Sound. 
When we look around the world today all of us would like to feel that peaceful co-operation amongst the greater nations of the world was an established fact. Anybody who has been lucky enough to survive 1 world war let alone 2 longs for the day when peaceful co-operation amongst the great nations of the world will lead to a peaceful progress in the interests of all mankind. But today when we look around the world and find that brush/ire wars or wars of liberation are conceived in the dark processes of the Kremlin in Moscow and behind the Gates of Heavenly Peace - a modern misnomer in Peking - and are then born in a hospital branded 'peaceful cooperation' in order to deceive other people as to the strategy and tactics used for world conquest, unfortunately we still have to expend large sums of money on defence that could bc better expended on social services, both here and in other countries in this region. We must keep up our guard and we must take our share of ensuring that the Indian Ocean, particularly in this case, is not left as a vacuum to be filled by others. The Russian experts have been very definite in their statements for the last 4 or 5 years on why they are building up their naval forces and why they have built up the mercantile marine from being the twenty-first in the early 1950s to about the fifth biggest in the world. 
When we survey the position, particularly that of the armed Services in America, we cannot sit down and feel quite happy that such a position will exist here that we have not to take any notice of what is happening around us. As I have said, I hope that it will not be advocated that this naval base be built merely from the point of view of Fortress Australia. Some honourable members opposite and some on this side of the House were in Fortress Singapore. Having been in one fortress I do not want a similar experience again. 
The building of a naval base at Cockburn Sound has become of vital importance not only to Australia but to the Western democracies as a link in establishing a position in the Indian Ocean which will not lead to people thinking that they can dominate or overcome it. Not since  Vasco de Gama sailed into the Indian Ocean have the Russians had a presence there, but in 1968 they had a small naval squadron touring around the northern parts of the Indian Ocean. The Russians have been trying to negotiate with India for rights to naval bases, particularly in the Nicobar and Andaman Islands, which would enable them to control the eastern approaches to the Indian Ocean via the Straits of Malacca. The Russians have tried to negotiate with Pakistan for another island off the Persian Gulf. Although the Suez Canal has been closed the Russians now  control most  of the northern littoral of Africa. They have been very active in Sudan where there have been more casualties in the fighting between Arabs and Africans than in the fighting between the Arabs and the Israelis, the Arabs in the former case being supported by Russia in a war about which we do not hear very much. The Russians have naval bases and facilities in the Yemen and Somalia on both sides of the entrance to the Red Sea. They now have facilities on the west coast of Nigeria as a result of the civil war with Biafra. 
They have been steadily coming down the east coast of Africa. For the last few months their fishing fleets - we know the purpose of some of their fishing fleets - have been based on the port of Mauritius, from which they have now received a contract for oceanographic surveys in the Mozambique Channel between Malagassy and South Africa. It is obvious to anybody interested in the international sphere that the Cape route is the Gibraltar of the international situation and that the Communist strategy is firstly to take over the rice bowl of South East Asia and then control the Cape. Part of the attack on South African sport is designed to denigrate and undermine South Africa in the eyes of the world, lt is all part of the greater strategy. 
I was in the House last Friday when the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  made his statement on the negotiations between the States and the Commonwealth on the off-shore minerals legislation. 1 heard his speech and I heard the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in reply. I was in the House today when the Prime Minister (Mt Gorton) come in to refute the accusations that had been made by the honourable member for Farrer last Friday. I have heard them, 1 have read them, and judging on what I have seen and heard I come to the conclusion that the honourable member for Farrer is stating the absolute truth in this matter. The honourable member for Farrer as Minister for National Development was commissioned by the Cabinet to negotiate with the State Ministers on off-shore legislation and in the statement that the Prime Minister made today he said in the opening paragraph: 
In February 1969 Cabinet decided that the Commonwealth should legislate to assert total rights over the sea-bed outside the 3-mile limit, lt deputed the Minister for National Development to inform the States Mines Ministers of this decision. 
First of all, the then Minister was sent to negotiate and inform the States Mines Ministers that the Government intended to legislate to assert total rights over the seabed outside the 3-mile limit. Since then the Government has decided to legislate to assert total rights over the off-shore limits from the low water mark. The discussion today arises from the want of confidence motion that the Opposition has moved by way of amendment, that is: and that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they have failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development, acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, that there would be further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth Government introduced any legislation on the territorial sea and continental shelf. 
No-one in the Opposition doubts the Government's right to bring in the legislation. 
We do not claim that the States Mines Ministers were not told that the Government intended to bring in this legislation, but we do claim that the Government has dishonoured a contract entered into by a Minister deputed to act on behalf of the Government, a man who enjoys a wholesome reputation in this place, a man of great integrity, a man who none in this place would ever doubt and a man whose word has always been his bond. To the Ministers for Mines in various States he gave an assurance. It was he speaking and nobody can impute motives to him but himself. He is the man who knows what he meant when he gave those assurances to the States Mines Ministers, and now for the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  the Prime Minister and others to assert that they know better than he what he meant and what was implied in what he said shows a total disregard for the honour of the man who they are criticising. The Minister for National Development in the House the other day showed quite clearly that he was convinced that the honourable member for Farrer had indeed given an assurance to the States Mines Ministers that further negotiations would take place with them before legislation was introduced. In his speech the Minister for National Development - after giving an outline of what he did when he became Minister for National Development - went on to say: 
The full details referred to by the honourable member for Farrer did not come to my knowledge until well after the Cabinet meeting al which the Commonwealth, after carefully examining the submissions from the States, gave a firm decision in relation to the matter in the Bill which is now before the House and which I introduced, lt was not until some lime after that meeting that I realised that the previous Minister for National Development had firmly believed that an undertaking to discuss the matter further wilh the States had been given. I am merely trying to explain the problem of lack of time at that particular stage. 
After the decision was made by the Government there was a matter of only a few weeks before Parliament sat. The best that I could do in the circumstances was to inform the States by telegram before any public announcement was made as to the future intentions of the Government in relation to the matter. 
The Minister sent the telegrams before he realised that the Government, in having taken its decision without previous and further consultations with the State Ministers for Mines, had broken the pledge given on the Government's behalf by the former 
Minister for National Development. The present Minister for National Development is also a man of honour and when he was speaking last Friday he indicated clearly that he was in an embarrassing position as a result of the decision that had been taken without further consultation and negotiation with the States. In the quotation I have just read the following appears: 
The full details referred to by the honourable member for Farrer did not come to my knowledge until well after the Cabinet meeting. 
However, in the Prime Minister's statement today, he said: 
The Minister undertook to place their views - 
That is the views of the State Ministers for Mines -  before Cabinet. This was done by the incoming Minister. 
Last Friday the incoming Minister said that he did not know the full details of the situation until some time after the decision had been taken by Cabinet. This is now clearly a matter of public morality. It is a question of whether a Minister who acts on behalf of the Commonwealth Government in negotiations with the States and gives his word can have his word broken by the Cabinet. 
When we examine the quotations that have been read from the minutes of the meetings of March 1969 and September 1969, and look at the contradictory statements that have been made by the Prime Minister in his statement today and by the Minister for National Development last Friday, we can come to the conclusion that there has been a broken pledge. The honourable member for Farrer would not have taken action unless he firmly believed that he was now in a position where his good word was being broken by the Government. Since the last election the honourable member for Farrer has been intensely worried about the morality of the Cabinet and of the Government. He refused to serve under the Prime Minister in his Ministry. He is deeply concerned about the behaviour of the Government in respect of many matters. If he were prepared to break the pledge of Cabinet secrecy, and if he were prepared to be disloyal to his own Party, I am quite certain he could give many more instances of the lack of moralitybyCabinetandofthe Government in respect of public questions. 
Over the past few years there have been a number of incidents when members of the Government Parties have accused the Prime Minister and other Ministers of breaking pledges and not upholding the dignity of their offices or of the Parliament. Some come readily to mind. One concerned the accusations made by the previous member for Warringah,  Mr St  John. 
Accusations were made by  Mr St  John and in some instances they were shown to be absolutely correct. If we recall back a little earlier to the time of the 'Voyager' disaster, we know that 2 royal commissions had to be appointed before the real truth of the matter came out. 
The matter now before the House is whether this Government is capable of controlling the affairs of this country with honour and dignity. 
As the honourable member interjects, it is the credibility of the Government that is under attack. The Prime Minister has denied the statements made by the honourable member for Farrer and I think that I should be entitled to quote obvious examples where the credibility of the Government has been under criticism and under study. 
. that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States. 
That is a specific reason and therefore other matters are irrelevant. 
The want of confidence motion deals with the subject of the consultations between the States and the Commonwealth over off-shore legislation. The Opposition accuses the Government of having broken the word given by the previous Minister for National Development. Even in the Governor-General's Speech it is admitted that there was some dispute between the States over rights in respect of off-shore legislation. In his Speech on behalf of the Government, the Governor-General said: 
At present, the various State governments claim sovereign rights in respect of such resources from low water mark to the outer limits of the shelf. The Commonwealth believes that, except for internal waters as they existed at Federation, il has sovereign rights in this area. 
It is the view of my Government that it would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position resolved. In order that this may happen, my Government will ask the Parliament to pass legislation to assert and establish what the Commonwealth concedes to be its legal rights. 
Negotiations had taken place as late as September 1969. On 3rd March 1970 it was admitted that there were legal doubts and disputes between the State governments over the sovereign rights in respect of territorial waters. The Government, in the Governor-General's Speech, at that time indicated that further negotiations had to be carried out with the States before the position could be resolved. The pledge that was given about legislation by the former Minister for National Development, and reiterated here today by the Prime Minister, was that the legislation would deal only with the area outside the 3-mile limit. Without telling the States that the Government was going to relate the legislation to the low water mark it went ahead and introduced the legislation that will be discussed by the House. The Government trod on the State Ministers for Mines. It broke the pledge that was given by the honourable member for Farrer, a man whose word T have said, anybody in this Parliament would accept. 
The State Ministers for Mines were entitled to believe that there would be prior consultation before legislation was brought down. It is no good the Prime Minister coming in now and saying that this was not intended - that it was only consultation. It is pettifogging legality to argue that way. The clear understanding of the Ministers for Mines has been shown by quotations that have been read from the minutes of meetings. It was that no action would be taken in respect of legislation until such time as further consultations had taken place. Neither the honourable member for Farrer nor the Opposition have asserted that the intention of the Government to introduce legislation was not clearly known to the Ministers for Mines. But the honourable member for Farrer and the Opposition assert that the Ministers for Mines really believed that further consultations would take place before legislation was brought down in this House. 
If in our federal system negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States are carried out by a responsible Minister of the Crown who has been given the authority by Cabinet to negotiate, and if he gives his pledge on any matter to a meeting of State Ministers, Cabinet then is duty bound to honour the pledge that has been given by the Cabinet Minister appointed to negotiate, irrespective of whether that Cabinet Minister might have overstepped the mark or might have misunderstood the instructions given to him by Cabinet. Once a pledge has been given on a ministerial level by the Commonwealth Government to 6 State governments that pledge should be kept. 
The honourable member for Farrer has indicated quite clearly that he intended to imply - in fact that he did imply - that he agreed with the State Ministers for Mines that there would be further consultations with them before legislation was brought down. He was the man taking part in the negotiations. He was the man making those statements. He was talking to the Ministers for Mines from the various States. He knew what was behind the words that they were uttering. All of us who have taken part at any time in negotiations  have often reached agreement with things not said, with a clear understanding of what was meant rather than what was clearly written. That is what has happened in this instance. As a juror in this place I can only come down on the side of the honourable member for Farrer. He has indicated what he meant and what he said to the Ministers for Mines. 
He is regarded in this House as a man of the utmost integrity. He would not have taken this step had he not believed that the Government was breaking a pledge. No government oan break a pledge that is given. As the honourable member for Farrer said, if you need to have everything written down before a promise is binding, if you need to have a legal document, then it is not worth while being a member of this Parliament. It is a Government that cannot be trusted, and the State Ministers and the State Premiers are entitled to believe that in future negotiations with any member of the Cabinet or with any member of this Ministry they will need to have their legal advisers present, indeed they will need to have recordings taken so that the promises given by this Government will be honoured and not broken at the whim of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. 
I come back to the point that I made earlier. The present Minister for National Development admitted in his statement last Friday that he did not know the full particulars and details of the situation that the honourable member for Farrer has given, until some time after Cabinet had made its decision. In order to try to recover face with the State Ministers before the Governor-General delivered his speech on 3rd March last the present Minister sent telegrams to them stating that the Government intended to introduce the off-shore legislation. 
This Government now lacks the confidence of the House and, I think, of the people, because of its failure to honour this commitment and because of its failure in other instances to give to the House all the information . that the House has required. It is the Government which is charged with evasions, half truths and omissions. In this instance all the evidence and the truth of the situation are on the side of the honourable member for Farrer. For those reasons I support the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition, indicating want of confidence in the Government. 
I have in my hand a book which is headed: 'The Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia'. The title of the book is: 'Business and Procedures of the House of Representatives - A Short Description'. It is a third edition. There is a prefatory note in the front of it which reads: 
The purpose of this publication, which is prepared primarily for distribution to and the information of Members of the House of Representatives, is to give a relatively short description of the ordinary business of the House and of procedures and practices followed in connection with its day to day proceedings. 
It does not attempt to encompass all the procedures provided for in the Standing Orders of the House or by practice, nor does it, with some exceptions, deal with the more complex features of these procedures which are described, or with unusual events. 
It is signed by A. G. Turner, Clerk of the House of Representatives. He is the Government's chief adviser and he is also the Opposition's chief adviser on procedures in this House. On page 24 of the booklet under the section headed 'Amendments' it reads: 
The following amendments are out of order. 
It refers to a few of them, and then at (e) states: 
An amendment which is merely an expanded negative. 
So that an amendment which is an expanded negative, according to this booklet, is definitely out of order. It is a book that is published by the Parliament for the guidance of members of the House of Representatives. The original amendment claims that the Government has '. . . failed to honour a commitment . . . '. The amendment that was moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  reads:  . . does not believe that there has been any failure . . . '.  Mr Speaker,  I submit that that is as good as saying:'You did; I didn't'. It is as simple a proposition as that. We say there was a failure; the honourable member for Casey in his amendment claims there was no failure. I can stand here and say: 'You did'; the Government can say: 'We didn't'. It is as simple as that. It is a direct negative. It is an expanded negative, because the second amendment has been expanded into many more words than we used in the original amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
Let me make this point: We moved a want of confidence motion in the Government. The second amendment is not a want of confidence motion in the Government. It takes away the whole import of the amendment that we moved. We took a stand on a matter of principle and morality. We moved an amendment that expressed a want of confidence in the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Cabinet. The amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Casey does absolutely nothing. It is an innocuous resolution that is the way out for certain honourable members on the Government side who are not prepared to support the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn). 
Might I conclude my remarks by saying that it is your position in this House,  Mr Speaker,  to control the House. It is your position to interperet the Standing Orders. You have precedents to. follow. You have parliamentary practice in this Parliament and in the House of Commons which give you guidance on these matters. You also have this booklet 'Business and Procedures of the House of Representatives', which is published by this Parliament and written by your chief adviser and our chief adviser, the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives. I submit that unless you act with complete impartiality in every decision that you make this House will not function as it should. I submit that as soon as you are appointed  Speaker  you must forget that you are the honourable member for Phillip. As the honourable member for Phillip you can have your political biases; you can do and say what you like. But as  Mr Speaker,  if you expect our respect, you must forget that you are associated with any political party. You are there to uphold the practice and procedures of the British institution of Parliament, but particularly of the Australian institution of Parliament. There can be no other decision than that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey is a direct or expanded negative of the resolution that was moved by the honourable member for Dawson. I ask you for the sake of this Parliament to forget that you are the honourable member for Phillip - a Liberal representative - and to make a decision which upholds the prestige of the Australian House of Parliament. 
 1  ask the Minister for National Development whether it is a fact that the first nuclear power station in Australia is estimated to cost approximately $l30m. Will enabling legislation for the expenditure of this money be introduced in this House? If not, when will the Parliament have an opportunity to discuss the outlay of such a large amount of the taxpayers' money? Is it also a fact that, as predicted earlier today, Canada is likely to provide the successful tenderer? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Have plans been formulated (o transfer postal delivery staff al the Belmore and Belfield Post Offices to the Campsie Post Office when the new building is completed. 
If so (a) what beneficial results will accrue to his Department and the public, (b) what detrimental effects will be suffered by the transfered postal delivery staff in rates of pay. travelling time and fares, and (c) what will be the effect on the grading of the three post offices. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say whether many assurance policies contain restrictions relating to active service as a member of the armed forces. 
Has his Department ever taken any action to have insurance companies remove these restrictions; if not, why not. 
Has any consideration been given to the introduction of a special assurance policy, guaranteed or issued by the Commonwealth, for members of the armed forces; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is a serviceman returning from Vietnam given a choice of the method of travel between his disembarkation point and his home State or town. 
If so, what are the choices available. 
Are interstate servicemen treated any differently from those disembarking in their home State. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
What procedure has to be followed by a medical practitioner if he considers an eligible social service pensioner is in need of urgent physiotherapy treatment. 
Does his Department allow medical practitioners to carry the necessary forms. 
Can verbal approval for the treatment be obtained. 
Is the patient ever examined by a departmental medical officer. 
What time is likely to elapse between the request by the medical practitioner for approval and the commencement of the treatment. (6)Is it possible to improve the procedure. 
The introduction of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill 1970 marks the beginning of the end of the greatest engineering authority that Australia has ever known, lt turns the giant Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority into a shadow of its former self. This Bill is an insult to the staff of the Authority. No satisfactory explanation has geen given for the drastic changes which are to be made in the responsibility of the Authority or its potential for construction, design and consulting work. The Authority is to be emasculated beyond recognition. Its staff will slowly dwindle away into other avenues in the engineering field which will give them greater opportunity for achievement. 1 cannot understand how any government which has witnessed the magnificent achievements of the Snowy scheme can make a decision which will fragment the vast store of knowledge and experience gained during the years in which the Snowy Mountains Authority has been operating. One cannot help but feel that there are political motives behind the decision. lt is well to remember that a Labor government formed the Authority and approved of the Snowy River scheme. The Authority went from success to success, from one major engineering project to another, from the solution of major problems in tunnelling and construction to inventions and methods in engineering which are now used in many parts of the world. The Authority is recognised in many fields of engineering. It is a monument to the initiative and enterprise of Australian engineers and administrators and a monument to the foresight, imagination and planning of a Labor government. For the last reason it had to be destroyed and this Bill is the instrument of its destruction. However, the Government has overlooked the fact that whilst the Snowy Mountains Authority might be destroyed the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Scheme will stand forever. Honourable members may well ask Why the Opposition has taken such an antagonistic attitude to the Bill. The main reasons are: 
The formation of a consultative committee to advise the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  whether the Corporation should undertake certain engineering works. 
The restrictions placed on the Corporation in the type of engineering work it can perform. 
The restriction of construction to outside Australia only. 
The necessity to obtain ministerial approval for any work proposed to be undertaken by the Corporation. 
The need for private consulting engineers to engage the Corporation as consultants inside Australia if the Corporation is going to operate for a private firm. 
The Public Service Board control over the terms and conditions and employment of staff of the Corporation. 
Ministerial control over the number of staff to be employed by the Corporation. 
With all these restrictions placed on the new Corporation by the Government, the Corporation is still expected under Part IV, Section 24 of the Bill to: 
Pursue a policy directed towards securing in each financial year revenue sufficient - 
to meet the expenditure of the Corporation properly chargeable to revenue of that year; 
to enable the Corporation to make provision for income tax; and 
to permit the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on the capital of the Corporation. 
The Government has imposed an almost impossible task on the staff of the new Corporation. It is expected to operate as a commercial undertaking, expected to pay income tax and expected to return a profit to the Government but it is still hedged with the 7 restrictions that I have enumerated. The first objection of the Opposition is to the establishment of a consultative committee which may be used to advise the Minister whether a function of the Corporation should be exercised in respect of a particular engineering work and, if so, how that function shall be exercised by the Corporation. The committee is to consist of 6 members, 4 of the members appointed in relation to engineering works in Australia and 2 extra for engineering works outside Australia. The Minister is to have sole power of appointment. Two of the 4 members appointed for works in Australia are to be representatives of the engineering profession. But no mention is made of the qualifications or representation of the other members of the committee and no indication is given of how the committee will operate. 
This Corporation is expected to operate as a business undertaking yet is to have a consultative committee, if requested by the Minister, overlooking any or all of the work which the Corporation has been asked to perform. How long will it take to make a decision? Will the representatives on that committee deliberately hold up a decision? Will the Minister deliberately hold up a decision so that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation will not be able to perform that function because of loss of time. If this consultative committee is loaded in favour of private engineering and consulting, firms, as well it may be, the Corporation could find itself refused permission to undertake job after job. There seems to be no need, except for the purposes of frustration, for this Committee and an amendment for the deletion of this provision will be moved at the Committee stage when further arguments will be advanced. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The principal engineering fields in which it- 
The Corporation -  will operate may be broadly described as those relating to the development of water and power resources and for underground works. 
Part ITI of the Bill sets out the functions and powers of the Corporation. Its main functions in Australia will be in a consultative design and supervisory capacity. It will not be allowed to act as a constructing authority as the Snowy Mountains Authority has been. Why it has been found necessary to restrict its construction work in Australia bas not been explained in the Minister's second reading speech. There is just a blunt statement that it will not be permitted to act as a constructing authority in its own right as it has in the Snowy area. One can only conclude that it is to protect private engineering firms from the competition that could be offered by the Snowy Mountains Authority. Yet the Minister has told us that since 1966 annual expenditure of the Authority has been between $30m and $56. 5m per year. All the work performed in the Snowy area has received Australian and world acclaim. The works have been completed within the estimates and time limits imposed. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  the previous Minister for National Development, in a speech at the opening of the Murray 2 project on 1 1th October 1969 said: 
only wish we could say in government that every other department and form of government were so accurate in its costing as the Snowy Mountains Authority has been. There would be far less worries, I can assure you, for Treasurers if this were so. 
In the same speech the former Minister for National Development said: 
So from April 1972 these units in Tumut 3 will start to come on line and it will be completed I know I can say this definitely because I have never had any concern about any dates given to me by the Snowy. They always meet those dates. It will be completed by March 1974. 
Even with this recognised and acknowledged record in design, costing and construction, the Snowy Mountains Authority is not to be allowed to continue in construction work in Australia. 
The poor excuse for the breaking up of the Snowy Mountains Authority which is given by the Minister is that 'no other project in Australia has been or is likely to be big enough to support the cost of the specialist staffs which the Snowy scheme needed'. I am certain that no-one who wants to retain the Authority at near its present size and with its present know-how has ever suggested that only one scheme or engineering project should engage the attention of the Authority at any one time. This Authority has the knowledge and personnel to' diversify its activities as any major private engineering company would do. In the policy speech for the Labor Party at the 1.969 Federal elections, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
At a time when the River Murray Commission has been discredited, when South Australia faces the real threat of strangulation of its industrial and population growth because of  salination  of the Murray, its sole source of water, and when Queensland is suffering the worst drought this century, the Liberals have decided to cripple and I believe ultimately destroy the Snowy Mountains Authority. 
This greatest investigation, design and construction team ever assembled in the southern hemisphere is to be down-graded to the level of a consultative body. All its works in progress on the Snowy and elsewhere in Australia will have come  to  an end in 4 years time. If the Liberals are to be allowed to proceed with their plans to destroy an authority they have always resented since the Chifley Labor Government established it, it is inevitable that the experience and expertise of its team will be disbanded and lost. Most of them will go abroad. 
Labor will establish a national water conservation and construction authority with the Snowy Mountains Authority as its nucleus. There is room in Australia for such an authority. The State governments are letting out major contracts for the construction of dams and other engineering works to overseas companies. The New South Wales Government has recently announced that the construction of major sections of the Copeton Dam had been entrusted to an American consortium for a contract price of over $2lm. Many hidden features in this contract will make the final price much higher and will greatly enhance the profit-making prospects of the consortium. The Snowy Authority in cooperation with the New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission could easily have handled this construction, and probably at a far lower cost. I cannot understand why the members of this Government are so afraid of allowing a government instrumentality to compete openly and fairly with private enterprise in this and other fields. The Bill demands that the Snowy Corporation shall make sufficient profit each year to meet its running costs, pay income tax and return a dividend to the Commonwealth. The Corporation's activities will, therefore, need to be as efficient and economical as any private enterprise undertaking. It is a completely unfair and harsh restriction not to allow the Corporation to undertake construction work in Australia on any and all types of engineering work which it is capable of performing. An amendment to delete this restriction will be moved by the Opposition in the Committee stage. 
A further restriction which will prevent the proposed Corporation from operating to full efficiency is the restriction on the type of engineering work which can be performed. The Minister has said in his second reading speech that these may be broadly described as those relating to the development of water and power resources and for underground work. Clause 17, subsection (4.) of the Bill spells this restriction out. I cannot envisage the Snowy Corporation branching out into ali fields of engineering work. It will and must restrict itself to the type of work in which it has experience and know-how. But there could be major engineering works desired by a State government, local authority or private company which is just outside the present restrictions and which the Corporation could not perform if it were requested to do so. I mention the construction of the natural gas pipe lines in Victoria and New South Wales as a work which I believe the Corporation could perform but which appears to be beyond its present charter. An amendment to broaden the scope of the type of engineering work which the Corporation can undertake will be moved in the Committee stage. 
Not only does the Bill envisage a consultative committee to advise the Minister on works which may be undertaken by the Corporation; it also shackles the Corporation with obtaining ministerial approval before it can undertake any work. No business undertaking should be expected to try to operate efficiently, economically and profitably with clamps like these around its neck. To make the matter worse, it is admitted by the Minister that the Snowy Authority has been doing consultative work and construction work for outside authorities and for overseas countries for several years. Fees for this work received by the Authority last year amounted to about $3m. The annual report of the Snowy Authority for 1968-69 gives the major work which has been undertaken - and all of this work undertaken in opposition to private enterprise. For the Department of External Affairs under the Colombo Plan, work has been performed in Thailand-Malaysia, Cambodia-Burma and Western Samoa. The Authority has performed work for the United Nations in Nepal and for the Departments of External Territories and Works in Papua and New Guinea. Within Australia it has assisted in planning, design and construction of the Blowering Dam, Shoalhaven development, Liddell Power Station and the Eastern Suburbs Railway in New South Wales. In Victoria it carried out a detailed site investigation of the Dartmouth Dam as well as a cost and energy study of various power installations. The Cardinia Creek Dam in Victoria, the Ord River Dam in Western Australia, the Canberra water supply are other projects which have received the attention of the Snowy Authority. Details of other works can be found in the annual report of the Snowy Authority. 
The Snowy Authority has already proved itself as a consultative body for other organisations and the fees received give an idea of the potential in this area. Under this Bill it will not be allowed to do this without ministerial approval. It is estimated that approximately $40m a year is paid to overseas engineering consulting firms practising in Australia. But a further provision of the Bill restricts the Corporation from undertaking this work for private companies unless it has been requested to do so by a private consultant. It is another case of the middle man' being given a bite of the cherry without earning it, and another example of this Government bowing to the pressure of private and sectional interests. The proposed Corporation, acting as a commercial undertaking, should be encouraged to obtain its work from whoever and wherever it can be found. Private enterprise should not need protection from a governmental body competing in the open market. An amendment to remove the need for a private consultant to engage the Corporation will be moved in the Committee stage. 
I come now to a further curtailment of the freedom of the Corporation to act as it deems fit. This is the power of the Minister to control the number of staff which can be employed by the Corporation. The present Minister in his second reading speech passed over this point by saying no more than: 'I shall have power to determine the total number of staff'. He gave no indication of what was in his mind or in the mind of the Government on the total number of staff. Does he intend to shackle the proposed Corporation even further by fixing the maximum number of staff so low that only a very few projects could be handled each year? lt is completely unfair to the present professional officers, administrative and manual staff of the Snowy Authority for them not to be advised of the estimated number and classifications of posit ons which may eventuate. To fail to do so could mean the departure of many of them to other employment in which continuity of service is more definite. The previous Minister for National Development in the speech from which 1 quoted earlier did say that the proposed Corporation would have an intial maximum staff of 400. Is this figure the same as the present Minister has in mind or will his maximum staff be closer to the 100 mark? The staff of the Snowy Authority at 30th .lune 1969 was 1,173. 1 understand that the proposed Snowy Mountains Council will require a staff of approximately 430. So even if the Corporation's initial maximum staff is set at 400 it will still leave approximately 350 of the Authority's present staff without posit:ons. The Opposition believes that the Director of the Corporation would be the most suitable person to judge the number of staff required and an amendment to give h'm this authority wilt be moved in the Committee stage of the Bill. 
My final complaint about the Bill is that the terms and conditions of employment of the Corporation's officers will be subject to the approval of the Public Service Board. All of us in  this House have been inundated with submissions and resolutions from organisations representing engineering officers and from individual officers in the Commonwealth Public Service. The complaints have ranged over inadequate and depressed salaries, poor promotion prospects, an outmoded and unsympathetic 
Public Service Board and a lack of appreciation of the work of the engineer in the development of the nation. In an article in the May issue of 'The Commonwealth Professional'  Mr F.  C. Keith, B.E., wrote: 
Those charged with recruiting engineers for the CPS today must have an uneasy conscience, lt is their duty to convince graduates that they should join the CPS when they know that the graduate would have a much more rewarding career elsewhere. lt is the responsibility of all of us to make the community aware of the true situation so lh:tt young people are not misled. This will at least ensure the Commonwealth does not receive services for which it is not prepared to pay. 
A meeting of Public Service and Commonwealth instrumentality engineers in Sydney passed a strong resolution attacking the Public Service Board and its attitude to the salary claims of engineers. The resolution read in part: 
That this meeting calls for a public inquiry into the workings of the Commonwealth Public Service Hoard in view of the treatment which the Board has meted out to engineers. 
Similar meetings in other parts of the Commonwealth also carried strong resolutions of condemnation of the Public Service Board. The meeting in Victoria resolved that: 
This meeting condemns the action of the Public Service Board in failing to enter into meaningful negotiations with the Associations in  1967. i%8  and  1969,  thus forcing the Associations into expensive arbitration (costing  $230,000)  and. resulting in considerable delays and salary losses. 
Only today,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the CSIRO Officers Association wrote, and I quote its letter which states: 
The CSIRO Officers' Association strongly supports moves to have Parliament debate and take action on the alarming and depressing salary situation of scientists, engineers, experimental officers and scientific service officers in CSIRO and the Public Service generally, which has been allowed to develop by the Public Service Board. 
The dissatisfaction of professional engineers with the Commonwealth Public Service Board is very widespread. Yet the Government intends to force this new Corporation, which is to be a commercial undertaking, to obtain the approval of the Board for the terms and conditions of employment of its officers and employees. 
I come back to the point that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is expected to operate as a commercial undertaking, to meet its own expenditure, pay income tax and return a profit to the 
Government. But its senior officers will have to seek approval for salaries and working conditions from an outside body which cannot be expected to appreciate the special needs which might arise. Certain specialist officers from private industry, urgently required by the Corporation, would expect a salary equal to if not higher salary than that which they were receiving in private industry. But this salary could not be granted by the Director until it had been approved by the Public Service Board. There would be every chance that the officer would be lost to the Corporation as a result of the delay in fixing his salary or by offering too small an amount. If the new Corporation is to operate as a commercial undertaking the Director must have the right to make his own decisions. No private company seeks approval, from outside for the salaries and working conditions of its staff. 
The Opposition intends to move an appropriate amendment during the Committee stage of the debate. The Opposition deplores the action of the Government in setting up this new Corporation on such restrictive lines. No other conclusion can be drawn than that the Government does not wish the new Corporation to succeed. If there is any desire on the part of the Government to retain the expertise of the employees of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, some, if not all, of our amendments will be accepted in the Committee stage. 
The Opposition does not intend to oppose the second reading of this Bill. We want to see a continuation of at least part of the Authority. We Will make an earnest and sincere attempt in the Committee stage to remove some of the shackles and restrictions which are to be imposed on the new Corporation. The Opposition does not claim that our amendments will perfect the Bill or that they are the only ones needed. We do claim, however, that they will give the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation a much better opportunity to continue the magnificent investigation, design and construction work of its forebear, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. [Quorum formed.] 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill was introduced on about 4th March and since that time I have had discussions with the Parliamentary Liaison Officer and with the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  I told them that there would be at least 6 honourable members from this side of the House wanting to speak on the second reading and that something like 6 amendments would be moved by the Opposition. Last week I gave the Minister for National Development and the Parliamentary Liaison Officer a summary of the amendments that we proposed to move. Tonight I think I indicated to a lot of people around this House that there were two or three other people from our side still to make their speeches. The  Deputy Speaker  spoke to me only a few minutes before the gag was moved and I told him that the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  was our next  speaker,  that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  was the other  speaker  and that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  would perhaps rise. While we were debating the motion for the adjournment I went to our Caucus room and took this list off the board. Honourable members can see by the missing pieces in the corners that I have pulled it off the board. This list has been on our Caucus notice board all day. It reads: 'Stewart, Fraser, Patterson'  - he withdrew from speaking - 'Jacobi, Luchetti, Foster, Armitage, Keating'. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  also decided to withdraw. A similar notice has been on the Whip's desk all day. When I spoke to the Leader of the House a few moments ago about cutting out our 2 speakers he handed me a list that reads: 'Stewart, Fraser, Patterson, Jacobi' for the Opposition and 'Fairbairn, Robinson Mackay' for the Government side. I do not know where the mistake occurred but I am shocked to think that after playing the game' as I have tried to play it that this sort of mistake can happen. I cannot say who is to blame but I am grossly disappointed that in debating this Bill not one of our members went his full time. I took only something like 28 minutes of my 45 minutes, the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  took something like 28 minutes and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  took something like 20 minutes. We were not playing around. We were not trying to interfere with the proceedings of the House and we were not trying to delay things. 
Yes, 3 or 4 honourable members withdrew. I do not think that the Government can expect us to put up with these things. There was a mistake. Where the mistake was 1 do not know, but I do not think it should happen, otherwise the Government will find that the Opposition will again get angry and, as I said on the last occasion, when we lose our tempers we have nothing else to lose, and the turmoil that is created in the House is then sheeted home to the Opposition when the Opposition is not to blame for it. I hope that when the Snowy Mountains Corporation Bill comes back into the chamber at the Committee stage that we will be given ample opportunity to argue the amendments that we intend to move, because we will move them at the request of the professional employees associations of the Snowy Mountains Authority and because of our own desire to see the Snowy Mountains Authority preserved in something like its original form. We are not mucking about oh this Bill. It is part of our policy to have a Snowy Mountains water conservation and construction authority. We are genuine in our attempt to try to preserve this mighty authority that has been in existence for over 20 years. I ask now that when our amendments come up at the Committee stage there will be no misunderstandings like those that have occurred this evening. 
 I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: 10.- (1.) Subject to this Act, the Director and each Assistant Director shall be paid salary at  such respective rates, and annual allowances tit any) at such respective rates, as the Parliament provides, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, those salaries and allowances shall be as are prescribed. (2.) The Director and each Assistant Director shall be paid such other allowances as are prescribed.'. 
Earlier this afternoon the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  indicated that the Government accepted a similar amendment to 3 other Bills. The argument was then advanced as to why this amendment should be accepted. The previous amendments were accepted by the Government and I understand that this amendment will be also accepted. There docs not seem to be any good reason why I should continue talking on this amendment when argument has been advanced in relation to it earlier this afternoon. I commend the Government for indicating that it intends to accept this amendment. 1 feel that the principle involved is a good one in certain instances. The provision relates to the statutory body of a commercial undertaking. I think the Parliament should have the authority to fix the salaries and allowances which are paid to the Director and other senior officers of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
The main reason why the Opposition moved the amendment for the deletion of clause 16 was because it is such a wide provision. 
We believe that the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority has shown its efficiency and has been able to manage if own affairs. It has, to paraphrase the word of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  operated very satisfactorily.  His  predecessor, the honourable member foi Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  has said on numerous occasions how pleased he has been with its efficiency in costing, construction and design and in estimating the time of completing works in the Snowy area. Yet when the Government proposes to set up a commercial undertaking which will compete with private enterprise, particularly overseas, which will be asked by private enterprise to do work in Australia and which will be asked to do work by Commonwealth, State and local government authorities, the Government hedges the Corporation with a consultative committee. Nowhere in the clause is it suggested who the representatives on that committee will be. The clause states that the committee shall consist of 6 members. Four members will be appointed in relation to engineering works in Australia and elsewhere, of whom 2 shall be representative of the engineering profession. Those 2 representatives could come from private consultants - from one of the big engineering construction firms. There is no mention of whether the other 2 members are to be Government appointees or whether they are to be representatives from outside the Commonwealth Public Service or outside the Corporation itself. Two members of the committee are to be appointed in relation to engineering works outside Australia. No mention is made of who they shall be. All these members will bc appointed by the Minister for National Development. The present Minister is an honourable man and can be trusted, but his successor might not be able to be trusted. He might be even more violently opposed to governmental instrumentalities than the present Minister and this clause would give him the right to fetter the Corporation with a consultative committee that could prevent it from undertaking any work at all. Sub-clause (3.) of clause 1 6 states: 
The manner in which the Consultative Committee shall conduct its business (including the manner in which it is to reach decisions) shall be as determined by the Minister in writing. 
What does that mean? What is the Government's intention? What is the Minister's intention with respect to the consultative committee? Sub-clause (4.) states: 
The Minister may request the Consultative Committee to advise him whether a function of the Corporation under the next succeeding section should be exercised by the Corporation in respect of a particular engineering work- 
I can assure you,  Mr Chairman,  that if 1 were the Minister in charge of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation 1 would take advantage of the word 'may' in that sub-clause. I would never request the consultative committee to meet. 1 would make certain that the Director or Acting Director of the Corporation exercised his own judgment as to whether the Corporation would perform a function under the provisions of the Bill. Sub-clause (S.) states: 
Where a member of the Committee disagrees wilh the advice that the Committee proposes lo furnish lo  the  Minister on a  matter  that member may furnish his separate advice to the Minister on that mailer. 
If it is going to be a strong consultative committee - and 1 have the idea that many members on the Government side want it to be a consultative committee that will hamstring the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation - is the Minister going to agree with the advice of 1 member of that committee or is he going to accept the majority decision? Why give 1 member of the committee the right to give advice when the purpose of the whole committee is lo advise the Minister? Why give 1 man the right to put in a minority report? Why not work in the way that we work in this Parliament, on a majority decision? This is the way we work in our caucuses. Why allow in a private committee of this type - a committee under the direct control of the Minister  -  I member of the right to submit a separate report? There is no indication in this clause whether the Minister shall or shall not take that advice. Doe; he take the minority advice? Does he take the majority advice? Or does he take no notice of the advice at all? The clause is not necessary. No similar provision was in the legislation relating to the Snowy Mountains Authority. The Snowy Mountains Authority was not a commercial undertaking. I am reasonably certain that the Minister has been connected with outside business enterprises. No firm sets up a consultative committee that can advise its general manager. But that is the kind of procedure that this clause seeks to implement. 1 cannot help but feel that the insertion of this clause is a knee bending exercise to the private engineering organisations in Australia and also a knee bending exercise to the consultants, foreign and Australian, that operate in Australia. 1 said last night in my speech at the second reading stage that if the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is to be a commercial undertaking it has to be given freedom to act on its own initiative. They are the reasons, added to the ones already given by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  why we believe this clause should not be in the Bill. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clauses (3.). (4.) and (5.). 
There is a further amendment thatI wished to move but I know that procedures will not allow me to move it now. However as it is related to this clause I shall cover it in my remarks. Sub-clause  (3.)  sets out the functions which may be carried out by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation but before any of the functions can be carried out they must be approved by the Minister for National Development. The Corporation can, with the Minister's approval, undertake the carrying out of an investigation; the furnishing of any advice; the designing of an engineering works; the supervision of a contract; or the construction of. or the performance of any work in relation to the construction of, an engineering work. If the Corporation is going to perform any of these functions the Minister must give his approval, but he can put conditions on his approval. Sub-clause  (4.)  limits the type of engineering work which can be performed in Australia. It reads: 
The Minister shall not, for the purposes of the last preceding sub-section, give his approval in relation to the exercise by the Corporation of a function referred to in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of sub-section (1.) of this section in respect of an engineering work in Australia unless the work is - 
a work for the measurement of the flow of water; 
a work for the collection, storage, diversion, conveyance or supply of water; 
a work for the generation, transmission or supply of electricity; 
a work which, or a substantial part of which, is underground; or 
a work (including a road) incidental to a work referred to in any of the preceding paragraphs of this sub-section. 
Again the Minister cannot give approval unless the work that the Corporation is going to perform comes within those categories. Sub-clause  (5.)  prevents the Corporation from performing any of the work under sub-clauses  (3.)  or  (4.)  inside Australia for private companies unless a private engineering consultant has commissioned the Corporation to do that work. The Corporation is restricted to certain functions that it can perform under the legislation. It is also restricted to certain types of work that it can perform. It cannot perform work for private companies unless it is commissioned by a private consultant. In all those instances the Minister has the right to veto a request that might be made by a State government authority, a local government authority or a private company. In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said: 
The principal engineering fields in which it will operate may be broadly described as those relating to the development of water and power resources and for underground works. 
Earlier in that speech he said: 
Within these fields- 
He was referring to consultative activities in the engineering field - it will not be permitted to act as a constructing authority in its own right as it has in the Snowy area. 
He also said: 
It is expected also that it will continue to work for private organisations such as the large mining companies: In work for private organisations, however, it will only be able to act when commissioned by private consultants. 
Later, when he was referring to work outside Australia, the Minister said: 
So far as overseas work is concerned, the Snowy will be authorised to work in a somewhat wider field. It will be able to act as a constructing authority and supervise construction of projects in the fullest sense of this term. The categories of projects it may undertake will be those in which it will engage in Australia, plus works of a type previously undertaken by the Snowy and such additional types which I consider to be appropriate to its specific skills. We would also expect the Snowy to continue to use and collaborate with Australian consultants in appropriate circumstances. 
The Corporation will be able to perform construction work overseas. It will be able to take jobs from the United Nations or from the Commonwealth Government under the Colombo Plan. It can undertake such work without operating through a private consultant. If it is good enough for the Corporation to work overseas without first having to be commissioned by a private consultant and to engage in other types of engineering works additional to those that it is allowed to undertake in Australia, it seems to me to be a case of preventing it from accepting opportunities that exist in Australia where there is a lucrative field of such work and sending it to do work in under-developed countries. Special considerations perhaps could be granted to those countries by Australia either under the Colombo Plan or at the request of the governments of those countries. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, which is a governmental instrumentality, is expected to work overseas in less lucrative areas and carry out far more extensive work there than it is allowed to undertake in Australia. In other words, the Corporation is expected to get a good name for Australia in those underdeveloped countries by working at a lower profit rate and at lower costs whereas in Australia it cannot participate and compete in those fields, lt would be much more lucrative and profitable for the Corporation to carry out similar works in Australia as well as overseas, ft appears that the major engineering projects in Australia are lo be kept for the friends of the Government - the private engineering firms. The Corporation, a government authority which is expected to pay its own way, to pay income tax, to return a profit to the Government and to repay the capital that might be advanced by the Treasury for its setting up, will undertake work overseas. Subclauses (3.), (4.) and (5.) are weighed heavily against the Corporation. The Opposition believes that any government instrumentality that is operating as a commercial undertaking must be efficient and economical. As a socialised industry, as the Government is prone to call it, we believe it should be an efficient body and able to compete with private enterprise in any of the engineer ng fields and should be able to pay its income tax. We believe that the Corporation should be able to pay its way and return a dividend to the taxpayer. Not only are the private engineering firms in Australia protected by this legislation but private consultants in Australia are also protected. 
Under clause 24 of the Bill the Corporation is tied tightly in regard to its finances, lt has to receive ministerial approval before it can do its job. Also, it is restricted in the work that it can do in Australia. The 
Corporation cannot operate as a constructing authority for private companies in Australia unless private consultants are available. The Snowy Mountains Authority over the past few years has been operating as a consulting authority to private enterprise and has been able to return something in the vicinity of $3m a year in fees. An estimate I have from the Department of National Development is that foreign and Australian consultants operating in Australia receive fees in the vicinity of $40m per year. The Corporation will be prevented from going into the open market in Australia and competing as a commercial undertaking, as it is supposed to be, against private enterprise unless it is commissioner by private consultants. This is unjust and unfair. If any private mining company wants certain work carried out surely it should be able to come straight to the Corporation and have it done, if a company wants the Corporation lo investigate design and carry out certain works or contract and sub-contract for works and supervise construction the Corporation should be able to undertake such work. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development said that by the Corporation operating overseas there could be a return of foreign currency to Australia. But $40m of Australian money is going overseas to foreign consultants. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has failed to say why the Corporation is not allowed to act as a construction authority in Australia but is allowed to act as a construction authority outside Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Within these fields it will not be permitted to act as a construction authority in its own right as it is in the Snowy area. 
The Minister said that the Snowy Mountains Authority was an efficient organisation which had constructed and supervised all of the Snowy scheme. We are also told that when the scheme is completed something like $800m will have been spent over a period of IS to 20 years and that between $35m and $56m has been spent per year on the scheme. Everyone recognises the Authority as a constructing authority as well as a design and investigation authority. The Government will allow the Corporation to carry out all of its work overseas but it will not allow the Corporation to carry out construct:on work in Australia. The Government has placed no restriction on the Corporation carrying out work for private companies overseas. The Corporation can operate of its own free will. The Government has not asked private consultants to commission the Corporation when work .s undertaken overseas. As I have said, the Corporation is a free body outside Australia once it receives the Minister's approval. But inside Australia where there are lucrative fields for development, where contracts are being allowed out regularly to overseas companies and where S40m per year is being paid to overseas consultants, the Corporation is not to be allowed to enter into the open market. It is to be restricted. 1 will not be satisfied that the Government is treating the new Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation fairly until such time as the Minister gives further and far better reasons than he has given beyond his blunt statement that the Corporation will not be allowed to operate as a constructing authority in Australia but will be allowed to operate as a constructing authority outside Australia. The Snowy Mountains Authority has been able to do all these works, and it has done them well. There is no doubt about its efficiency. It is recognised throughout the world, lt is now being turned from an authority getting its money from the Government to perform specific tasks into a commercial undertaking. Part V of the Bill, which deals with finances, lays down quite clearly that the Corporation must make enough money each year to meet its expenditure, to enable it to make provision for income tax and also to permit the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on the capital of the Corporation. Clause 26 (2.) states: 
The capita) of the Corporation is repayable lo the Commonwealth at such times and in such amounts as the Minister, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, determines. 
The Government has tied down the Snowy Mountains Authority completely and made it a private undertaking under Government control. The Government is not allowing it to operate in Australia as a private undertaking but is allowing it to operate outside Australia as a private undertaking because the Government knows that there will be less profit to be made by helping the underdeveloped nations than there will be by building dams, bridges, roads and power stations in Australia. The Government is using the taxpayers money to subsidise its contribution under the Colombo plan. It is not giving recognition to the Snowy Mountains Authority, which will be broken down into the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. The Government is not giving this Corporation the right to do the same thing in Australia as it will be permitted to do overseas. 
To me and to the Opposition, what is needed in Australia is a national water conservation and construction authority that can operate on half a dozen projects at the same time. I have never suggested that there should be one general homogenous scheme to take over the full operations of the Snowy Mountains Authority. There are schemes in northern Queensland and Victoria to which the Corporation could apply itself. We are almost in the age when we will have our own nuclear power stations. According to  Sir Philip  Baxter, something like 3500m is to be spent on nuclear power stations before the end of this century, but the Corporation will not be allowed to act as a constructing authority in Australia. It may design these power stations and it may supervise the work on them, but it may not call for tenders. The construction side will be passed over to private enterprise which will add its 25% to the cost and make a profit out of it. Private enterprise may perhaps even commission the Corporation to supervise the work. These clauses are not good clauses. The Bill is not a good Bill. The reason we have moved our amendment is to try to give the new Corporation the opportunity to act as a commercial undertaking, to be able to repay to the Government the capital that will be advanced to it in the first instance, to be able to pay income tax, to be able to make a profit and to be able to meet its requirements. All we are asking for is a fair go for the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
1 was going to move another amendment but it depended upon the deletion of sub-clauses (3), (4) and (5). When I was speaking previously I mentioned the building of nuclear power stations by the year 2000. I do not know whether I said the cost of these power stations would be $500m or $5,000m, but the figure is $5,000m. The 
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation will not be able to participate in the construction of those power stations. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 18 to 20 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 21 (Terms and conditions of employment). 
1 ask the Minister for National Development: Do the tender documents for the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay contain reactor sm;ig criteria? If so, do the criteria cover the accidental and unavoidable release of radioactive matter and set safety standards for the protection of employees and the public? Will the Minister table the tender documents? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will final disbursement of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund surplus be made lo contributors. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are fees paid by working mothers to pre-school and child minding centres allowable as a tax deduction; if not, why not 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
How will the cost of electricity generated at the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay compare with the cost of electricity from conventional power stations. 
When will the generation of electricity by nuclear power be an economical proposition for Australia. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What are the main reasons for the decision to build a nuclear power station in Australia. 
Why was Jervis Bay chosen as the site. 
Does South Australia have the need and  a  suitable site for a nuclear reactor. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What are the comparative (a) capital (b) operating and (c) maintenance costs of500 MW (i) CANDU and (ii) SGHWR type reactors. 
Has any estimate been made of the number of (a) CANDU and (b) SGHWR type reactors, which could be constructed in Australia; if so, what was the estimate. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will he make available the reports on the (a) (i) geological, (ii) hydrological, (iii) hydrographical, (iv) meteorological, (v) ecological and (vi) environmental investigations carried out at each of the sites considered for the building of a nuclear power station, and (b) ability of each site to dispose of the radioactive and thermal waste from the proposed reactor. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Is the site chosen  at Jervis  Bay for the nuclear power station situated in one of the few remaining virgin areas in the region. 
Were any other sites in the region considered, if so, where. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will the discharge of heated waste from the proposed nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay be made into the open waters of the ocean. 
Is there any danger in the release of this waste. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Are fast breeder nuclear reactors a commercial proposition. 
If not, when is it predicted that this will be the case. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Has he any information as to whether privately-owned and operated industry in remote areas of Australia is interested in the purchase, construction and operation of nuclear power stations. 
If so, does the Government intend to grant permission to private industry to enter this field of power generation. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Will an adequate supply of plutonium be necessary to operate nuclear reactors for power generation when fast breeder reactors become commercially feasible. 
Has he any information as to whether the Japanese Government is stockpiling plutonium to facilitate the introduction of fast breeder reactors. 
If so. would it be to the benefit of Australia to follow suit when in a position to do so. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Has a decision been made that gas-cooled reactors are unsuited to the present nuclear power needs of Australia; if so, why. 
If the suitability of these reactors for Australian needs hat not been considered, why is this so. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Lang respectfully showeth. 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as I. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly al) nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being "part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance wilh the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 address a question to the Minister for National Development, ls it a fact . that Canadian nuclear power experts are claiming that the only tender for the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay which can be costed accurately is the tender submitted by Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd for a CANDU type reactor using natural uranium? Are all the other lenders still under consideration for re actors which would require slightly enriched or enriched uranium? Did the invitation to tender specify a reactor using natural uranium? Is natural uranium still the fuel which the Government prefers? ls the Minister aware that the United Kingdom, West Germany and Sweden have discarded the use of natural uranium for future reactors?  If  so, are the Canadian experts entitled to be confident of being the successful tenderers? 
I am against the proposals of the Standing Orders Committee and the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  It is a rare occasion in this Parliament when we discuss matters such as the 'Voyager' disaster, after a royal commission has been held. In such cases there are great quantities of evidence to be looked over. The proposal involves the taking away from the member leading in the debate on the Government side or on the Opposition side of an opportunity to cull the evidence and to use the time of the House in order to bring it to the attention of honourable members. 
It seems to me that some of the new members in this place have been sent here by the Lord Almighty himself in order to tie up all the loose ends he has left. After they have been here a little longer they will find that he has left a great number of loose ends. An honourable member is entitled to only one extension of time. So that some new members who suffer from verbal diarrhoea may have an opportunity to speak on every subject on which they wish to speak, they want to curtail the processes of the Parliament. They want to do away with the opportunity that should be avail able on every occasion. Honourable members might rarely make use of this provision but time should be available on every occasion. Every honourable member, from the lowest backbencher to the Prime Minister, should be able to come into this chamber and espouse the story that he wants to put forward. He may want to do this in order to achieve a personal ambition. He may want to talk on this issue, that issue, some other issue or every issue that comes up. Some honourable members are trying to do away with the very reason for the founding of this Parliament. It was founded to give people the opportunity for freedom of speech. 
I am against a reduction in the times allocated for speeches. I am one of those who rarely speak in this House. Like the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  I rarely use all the time available to me. Since I have been a member of this Parliament there have been occasions when an honourable member who has spoken for 45 minutes has been granted an extension of time. This was because the matter under discussion was so important. Honourable members who advocate this proposal should forget their personalities. They should forget the fact that they have not been able to make a speech every day since they have been members. They have only been members since 25th November last year. They should think of this as an institution that must be upheld. Opportunities must exist for members to talk. If opportunities are not available then we might as well not come here. We might as well close this chamber and have all our arguments in the committee rooms. 
This is the Parliament of the nation and members are sent here to represent the people. Before the new members are here much longer we will find that a lot of them will hardly want to talk at all. If we look through the list of new members we will find that some of them spend very little time in this chamber. Some of them have missed more time in this chamber than I have missed in 17 years. We would find also that a number of the new members have spoken more often in this Parliament than many of the members who have been here for a long time. Yet it is the newer members who are complaining about people speaking for too long. If we added up the time that new members have spoken we would find that they have had greater opportunities of speaking than have a great number of the members who have been in this place for years. 
I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it is most important that honourable members should not be curtailed in speaking. Only one emergency may arise in the life of a Parliament about which a member wants to speak and he should be able to exercise that right without any curtailment of time. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison is aimed at reducing the allotted speaking time of 45 minutes to 30 minutes in one fell swoop. He also wants to reduce the time limit of 30 minutes for back benchers to 20 minutes. This point has not been considered mainly because of the lack of experience of the group of about 10 honourable members who met informally. 
The opportunities to speak should be available and we should have unlimited time. If new members want to do anything about this then let them insult the member who speaks for too long. Let them walk up to him and say: 'Stewart, you are talking for too long. Sit down.' They should take that course rather than attempt to cut down the speaking time permitted under the Standing Orders. If honourable members think that I am talking for too long they should tell me. If they do not want to tell me inside this House then they should do so outside. I bet there are not too many honourable members who are game enough to do it to me or to anybody else yet they will complain behind a man's back. They will say that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  talks too long and that so and so talks too long. They will never go to the honourable member concerned and speak to him. I say that we should not take away the rights that we have. I am opposed to the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee and I am also opposed to the recommendation of the honourable member for Denison. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. In view of the answer he just gave to the honourable member for Macquarie, I ask: Do a number of questions relating to the introduction- of nuclear power in Australia appear on the notice papers of this House and of the Senate? Was notice of some of those questions given early in June? What is the reason for the delay in answering them when it is reasonable to assume that all the information sought would and should have been available to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Government prior to the decision to build a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay? 
by leave- The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  has just tabled the Third Annual Report of the Australian Industry Development and Research Grants Board and has congratulated the Board on its activities over the past 3 years. The Opposition also congratulates the Board on its activities over that period of time but it is far from satisfied with the approach that the Government takes to the matter of research and development in industry. 
There are a number of improvements which can be made in this field and I think that the suggestion has been made by the Grants Board itself that some alterations need to be made to the present Act. But the Opposition feels that the Government is working an Act which was introduced without a prior survey of needs. It is not the approach that is required to research and development in Australia. In a speech to a symposium of the New South Wales Division of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science at the University of New South Wales in Sydney on 11th September 1969 the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  talking about the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act, said:  . . there is no guarantee that even this sum will be spent for the benefit of Australian industry. Late last year I asked the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr McEwen,  a series of questions aimed at determining how many Australian and foreign-owned firms had, in the 1960s, established, closed down or transferred overseas their research and development sections. I also asked how many of the companies being assisted under the Act were foreign-controlled. I was told that the information I sought was noi available, and that the degree of foreign shareholding was not a factor determining eligibility for support under the Act. 
The Leader of the Opposition went on to say: 
The Industrial Research and Development Grants Act has been aptly stigmatised by Professor J. A. Allen of the Department of Chemistry at Newcastle University as: 
. an appropriate result of the interests of groups favouring a system of grants, the over-simplified decision-making approach that tends to substitute a three per cent of gross national product for a proper understanding of the processes by which technological changes are generated and absorbed into the economy and society, and the 'growth mania' that dominates so much economic thought today'. It is an Act introduced without a prior survey of need, and under which, in consequence, money is disbursed without a proper understanding of the problems that have to be overcome: for although we know that the level of industrial research and development in the private sector is low, we do not know why this is so, nor what the present pattern of activity is, nor which areas could benefit most quickly from financial support. 
I do not think that the Government yet knows the answers to some of those questions that were posed by the Leader of the Opposition in September 1969. The Grants Board has been operating as efficiently as it possibly can and, I am told, has been making some common sense decisions under the provisions of the Act in order to grant money for research and development in industry. In his statement the Minister said: 
It was in the light of forward estimates of the growth in company research expenditures that the Government recently decided to reduce the rate of general grant from SO per cent to 35 per cent for expenditures incurred during 1970-71 in order to enable the growth in expenditure on grants to be kept within reasonable bounds. 
That is the first ministerial or Government statement that has been made on this matter. The announcement was made in the Commonwealth Gazette of 30th June 1970 but no official announcement has ever been made by the Government as to why the amount for general grant was reduced from SO per cent to 35 per cent until this statement that the Minister made today. 
In the bulletin of the Australian Industries Development Association for September 1970 there is a critical article on the industrial research and development grants. One of the criticisms made is of this reduction of general grant from 50 per cent to 35 per cent. In this article the Director of the AIDA, talking about the reduction in the grant, says: 
Industry is thus left to assume that the very success of the grants scheme has led to the grant funds being spread more thinly amongst the companies undertaking more research and development work, particularly smaller firms whose activities in this field do not bring them within the scope of the selective grants, covering eligible expenditure over $50,000. 
If similar cuts are to be made in future, to bring total government expenditure on the grants within the bounds of a preconceived figure for a particular financial year comprises planning their research and development programmes may ' be left in the dark about what actually will be available. The whole scheme could lose much of its value as an incentive to substantially increase industrial research and development. 
It is worth emphasising, for the guidance of the Government's policy advisers, that knowledge of what the grant will be is highly important at the planning stage, and not simply when filling out the form. 
In this respect it is pertinent to recall the words of the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr I.  Sinclair, in his second reading speech on the Industrial Research and Development Grants Bill on 9th May 1967: 
As the scheme aims to provide firms with an incentive to invest in additional research and development staff and facilities, the Government recognises the need for the incentive to have a reasonable and certain continuity. 
 If existing attitudes on the part of the Australian management to research and development are to be changed, the need is for an incentive which is widely and predictably available and which retains within individual companies the decisions on the research and development projects to be pursued. The general grant will fulfill this need. 
Australian management may be excused if it has difficulty in reconciling the sudden decision to reduce the amount of the general grant with the clear intentions of the Government as expressed by  Mr Sinclair  in 1967. 
I repeat that in the speech made by the Minister in introducing the Bill he talked about a reasonable and certain continuity and about an incentive which is widely and predictably available. To cut down the general grant from 50 per cent to 35 per cent without due notice to the companies which would perhaps at this stage be planning their research and development projects is wrong. Perhaps they have made their plans and then they are told that instead of being able to get 50 per cent up to an expenditure of $50,000 they can get only 35 per cent up to an expenditure of $50,000. Anybody who has been in industry would appreciate that planning is generally done ahead. If a decision such as this is taken after those plans have been made it could easily mean that the company, in allocating money for research and development on the understanding that 50 per cent of that allocation would be reimbursed by the Grants Board, could find that instead it can get only 35 per cent. The company may have overreached itself in its research and development programme. This could have disastrous results on the smaller firms in the research and development field. 
This reduction does not apply to the big companies. They get the special selective grants once they spend over $50,000 on research and development. It is the firms which spend up to $50,000 which have been affected by this decision, not companies like the breweries or the motor car manufacturers which spend above the $50,000. lt is they who perhaps get a selective grant but the cove who is trying to make his business more efficient and trying to develop articles or goods that he can export or that can improve Australian life generally is the person who is likely to be hit by this decision. Certainly the amount has been increased this year to $17m, but that $17m, because of the reduction from 50 per cent to 35 per cent, will be spread over a far greater area. It could have been increased to $17m and left at 50 per cent because the Minister said that last year the payments totalled $8.9m and brought the total grants paid since 1967 to $ 14.9m. An article in the AIDA bulletin states that the grants made last year were more than the amounts spent. There was an estimate of $10.8m in the 1969-70 Budget and only $8.9m was actually paid out in grants during that year. This year the grant has been increased to $17m but there has been a reduction from 50 per cent to 35 per cent in the rate of the general grant. 
Another item referred to in that AIDA bulletin dealt with inequities and anomalies in the Act. One of those inequities and anomalies in the Act is that money spent on part time research is taken into account in assessing the amount of expenditure in the base year but more than the expenditure in the base year has to be spent before a company is eligible for a grant. But when it comes to expenditure on research and development in the year of application the amount spent on part time research work is not allowable in calculations. So part time work is taken into account in assessing the base year but in the actual years of operation thereafter the salaries paid to those officers working part time in the field of research and development are not allowed to be charged against amounts spent on research and development by that company. 
Another anomaly in the Act is the fact that the Act insists that professional supervision should be employed on a full time basis. There are some occasions - and I know of one in my own electorate - when it is not necessary to have a professional man engaged full time in doing the research that is necessary, but unless a company has a professional employed full time it is not entitled to claim a research and development grant because it has failed to employ a professional full time in the supervision of research and development. There are some instances where special skills acquired by training either in the company itself or outside are perhaps more essential than the supervision of a full time professional. This again hits at the small firms. The cove who is turning out a business with one or two employees is the administrator; he is the professional man; he is the labourer; he is doing all sorts of work in order to get his business off the ground. In addition, he is devoting some of his time to research and development in the field in which he is engaged, but unless he devotes all his time - he is the only professional man employed - to research and development then his salary cannot be considered when considering a grant under the Act. 
Yes. Another feature of the Act that has been criticised is that the allowable expenditure on plant and equipment is only as high as the amount spent on salaries. In some cases it might be necessary to purchase costly plant and equipment in order to carry out research and development work but if the amount spent on plant and equipment is greater than the amount spent on salaries for research and development the company can claim only the same amount for plant and equipment as it claims for the amount spent on salaries. This amendment to the Act to allow for expenditure up to a set limit, perhaps, but more than the amount paid by way of salaries, should be allowed because it may be essential to buy plant and equipment in order to carry out research work. 
Other items that are not allowed to be claimed in assessing the amount spent on research and development include the materials and overhead. In the chemical field the cost of materials for research would be excessive. A lot of it would be used and cast aside. That is not allowed for in assessing the amount spent on research and development. I have outlined some of the anomalies in the Act. They have been pointed out, not only by the Australian Industries Development Association but also by the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board in its 1968-69 annual report which states: 
Nevertheless, as stated in its annual report for 1967-68, the Board feels that there are some provisions of the Act which could militate against the full attainment of its objective. Some of these provisions are producing what the Board feels to be unintentional inequity or difficulty in application. It would seem that some amendments to these provisions could be made without major alteration to the Act in its present form and, in the Board's opinion, these would permit a more effective and more equitable distribution of available grant funds. The particular provisions to which the Board wishes to draw attention are set out hereunder. 
The report refers to part time research and development efforts in a grant year; preferential treatment accorded to contract IR and D as against 'In-Company' IR and D; and about the adjustment of base year salary expenditure. They are the criticisms made by the Board itself. The GovernorGeneral promised on behalf of the Government on 3rd March 1967 that the Act would be reviewed. The Minister in tabling the third annual report of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board said in his concluding paragraph: 
The operation of the Act is now under review and industry can be assured that the Government's intentions regarding the future will be announced well before the expiry of the present legislation in June 1972. 
I would ask that while the Act is under review discussions be had with industry to make certain that the amendments to the Act will be in line with what is required by industry and will encourage greater research and development in industry. The Australian Labor Party is very much in favour of increased research and development in industry and as long as the money granted by the Commonwealth is being used properly there will be no criticisms from the Opposition. 
The final point 1 make is that in Australia this year the Government has allocated SI 7m for research and development. In Canada the amount allocated for this year is SI 24m, so we still have a long way to go before we catch up with one of our sister nations of the Commonwealth. I suggest that the Government, when it reviews the operations of the Industrial Research and Developments Grants Act, should take steps to increase the amount available, to cut out the anomalies that have been mentioned by myself, by the Board and by the Australian Industries Development Association, and to make a thorough review of whether the research and development money is being used properly and is having the effect in research and development which all of us would like to see it have. 
I support the amendment moved by my  Deputy  Leader  (Mr Barnard)  on behalf of the Opposition. The amendment reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that - 
the pension rate for the T. &amp; P.I. ex servicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings and 
a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into and make recommendations on all aspectsof the provisions and operation of the Repatria tion Act' 
Each year the ex-servicemen's organisations make 2 main submissions to the Government. The first is made by the Federal Executive of the Returned Services League. It is presented to an ex-servicemen's committee of Cabinet. This year it was presented on Tuesday, 7th April 1970. The 1970 war compensation plan of the RSL raised certain points. It asked, firstly, for an independent non-parliamentary committee to review all the provisions of the Repatriation Act and to make recommendations to the Government. It wanted, secondly, a general review of war and service pension rates, suggesting certain figures as the amounts at which the rates should be fixed. It wanted, thirdly, repatriation, hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits extended to all returned servicemen of the First World War and the Boer War without their having to prove a war-caused disability. Fourthly, they wanted the funeral grant to be increased from $50 to $150. 
That war compensation plan was almost identical with the plan that the RSL asked for in 1969, and we had to sit here and listen to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who identifies himself as the secretaryof the Government Members Ex-servicemen's Committee, say that this plan put forward by the RSL will be considered by his Committee. I told honourable members that the RSL plan for 1970 was almost identical to its plan for 1969. It was presented to the Government on 7th April 1970 and yet a member of the Government - the secretary of the Government Members Ex-servicemen's Committee - can come here and tell us that he will see that these plans are put before the Government again. The sooner he wakes up to the fact that the Government has no intention of taking any notice of the war compensation plan of the RSL the better it will be for his Committee and for the RSL proper. 
The other main organisation that makes a submission is the Commonwealth Council of the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association of Australia. This year the Council presented a plan which suggested that war pensions should not be taken into account for means test purposes for social service pensions. Their second point was that the totally and permanently incapacitated pension rate should be increased to $41.90 a week. Their next point was that the repatriation pensions payable to wives of TPI pensioners should be increased from $4 to $8. Their next point was that medical benefits should be made available for wives of all TPI pensioners. Their following point was that the funeral grant should be increased from $50 to $200 and that transportation rebates should be increased from $30 to $100. Their last point was that cancer should be accepted as a war caused disability whether it was war caused or not. 
Both these submissions were couched in moderate language. The arguments were reasonable and they did not exaggerate at all, but most of the requests were ignored and others were only partially granted. It amazes me that the RSL and other exservicemen's organisations are not far more angry than they are about the poor increases that are to be granted under this Bill. The only statement that I can find is one in an issue of 'Reveille' of this year. It is headed: 'National President critical on Budget*. The article states: 
The National  President  of the RSL  (Sir Arthur Lee, K.B.E., M.C.)  said the new Budget increases for repatriation pensioners were 'totally unacceptable'.  Sir Arthur  said: 'Why should ex-servicemen and women who had suffered disabilities through war service find the compensation they receive adversely affected by the need for allocation in other areas of Government expenditure? 
The present procedure for determining the level is outmoded and must be changed. 
The war compensation increases in the Budget fail to reflect the rise in the cost of living which has occurred in recent years. 
That was a statement by the Federal  President  of the RSL. I have read other statements that he has made on subjects other than repatriation.  His  language was much more violent on those occasions, but then he was generally attacking Labor Party policies or Labor Party members. But now, when he has an opportunity to come out with a critical analysis of the repatriation proposals in this Budget all he says is that they are totally unacceptable. If they are totally unacceptable what further has he done about it? I suggest that he and his organisation have done exactly nothing. They must have forgotten that in 1968 they put out a pamphlet. I have one in my hand. At the top of it we have a photograph of soldiers in battle dress marching along a street and at the bottom we have 3 elderly gentlemen - I take them to be exservicemen - sitting on a park bench. The wording is 'Honoured in war . . . Forgotten in peace'. Inside the pamphlet we find this statement: 
The Commonwealth Government's neglect of war pensions for incapacitated veterans must be resisted. 
Further on it states: 
The present levels of war pensions are a disgrace to the Government, a disgrace to Australia and a betrayal of those who have suffered in war. 
Another pamphlet was published in February 1970. It was authorised by the National Executive of the Returned Services League of Australia. On the front of the pamphlet is a photograph of a man who no doubt is training for service in Vietnam. The question is asked: 'What do we owe him?' Inside the pamphlet it says that we owe him a great deal, including adequate compensation cover, satisfactory reestablishment opportunities and comprehensive medical and hospital benefits. Then the pamphlet sets out the RSL's requests which were to be presented to the Government in April. Also inside the pamphlet is a table showing the erosion of compensation values. It shows that between 1950 and 1970 the minimum wage increased by 207 per cent, the average weekly earnings for an employed male increased by 246.5 per cent and the special TPI rate pension increased by only 157 per cent and the general rate or 100 per cent pension increased by only 143 per cent. The RSL and other organisations have requested the Government to stop the erosion of compensation payments to ex-servicemen. 
The main request of the RSL this year and last year concerned the setting up of an independent, non-parliamentary committee to review completely the operations of the Repatriation Act and the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act and all their provisions and to make appropriate recommendations to the Government. Last year and again this year the Government was asked to set up an independent committee. The only thing that the Government has done through the new Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is to announce the setting up of a departmental committee. 
I am surprised that the Minister in his second reading speech did not refer to the fact that this departmental committee had been set up. &gt;He did not say who were likely to be the members of the committee. He failed to give any idea of the attitude that the members of the Committee will adopt or the course they will follow. He did not indicate whether they are to make a comprehensive investigation or whether they are to look only at parts of the respective Bills. 
On a number of occasions the Opposition has moved an amendment which was designed to set up a joint select committee of this Parliament. We have moved a similar amendment on this occasion. We first suggested the setting up of a joint select committee of the Parliament to inquire into the provisions and operation of the Repatriation Act as far back as 1963. That is as far back as I have checked. When the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  was speaking earlier today he suggested that we had stolen the idea for the setting up of a committee from the RSL. If anything, the RSL has stolen the idea from the Australian Labor Party. Instead of a joint select committee of the Parliament, the League has suggested the appointment of an independent, non-parliamentary committee. But thereafter, it seeks exactly the same things as we do. 
I have in my mind an amendment which was moved by the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  to the Repatriation Bill in 1963. It refers to the setting up of a joint committee on repatriation. It sets out the constitution of the committee, the tenure of office of members of the committee, and then it provides for resignations, the filling of vacancies, the election of a  chairman  and vice-chairman, the number of members who would form a quorum, the procedure at meetings, the sitting of the committee during recess, the power of the committee to send for persons, papers and records, the powers, privileges and immunities of the committee and the functions of the committee. As I said, I did not check further back than 1963, but the Labor Party suggested the setting up of a repatriation committee as far back as then. In the documents I have in front of me I have copies of the amendments which were moved in 1964, 1965, 1966 and 1969 as well as the amendment which was moved today seeking a joint parliamentary committee inquiry. In other words, from at least 1963 onwards the Australian Labor Party has sought an overhaul of the Repatriation Act. 
The 1914-18 war has been finished 52 years and the 1939-45 war has been finished 25 years, but as far as 1 can recall there has been only one non-departmental review of the Act since it was passed in 1917, and that was in 1943. There was a departmental review about the 1950s when the Government first came into office. But the Repatriation Act would not have had the same ramifications in those days as it has now. The Act has been amended in so many ways since it was passed that I think it is absolutely essential that the Act should be looked at in its entirety. The Labor Party suggested the setting up of a joint parliamentary committee in 1963 because it felt that repatriation was a matter which should be beyond the realm of politics. The Labor Party believes that people who, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said, are prepared to pay the supreme sacrifice of serving their country should be entitled to compensation if they are injured or wounded in any way while doing so. The Labor Party has suggested that the inquiry be conducted by a joint parliamentary committee because the matter would then become the responsibility of the whole Parliament. If the inquiry were conducted by a Government or departmental committee it would still come within the realm of politics. Whatever decision a Government or departmental committee arrived at would be criticised by the Labor Party for its failure in some respect or another. 1 do not think that a departmental committee would satisfy the wishes of the RSL or of exservicemen generally. 1 make the plea that either the request of the RSL be agreed to and an independent committee of inquiry be set up or the request of the Opposition be approved and a parliamentary committee be set up. There is a great need for changes to be made in the Repatriation Act. The honourable member for Wills detailed a lot of the anomalies. I will not go through them because I promised not to take my full length of time, but the Act does need overhauling. In my opinion the Repatriation Act is extremely costly and inefficient in some directions. I think more could be done for our ex-servicemen than is being done at present for perhaps the same expenditure. However, I am not going to say in the House why I have come to this opinion. I would say why at a meeting of a joint parliamentary committee, where perhaps I would not run the risk of offending some ex-servicemen. Any decision arrived at by such a committee would be a joint one. There are good reasons for changing the Act. I believe that all honourable members, irrespective of what side of the House they are on, should support the amendment which has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
I will not rake very long to reply to the speech which has just been delivered by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I merely want to take him up on one point. The honourable member mentioned the word 'cowardice*. This is strange coming from a man who ran out on his mates when they were helping him to pull down the signs of his electoral opponents. 1 think it is a word that the honourable member would do well to leave out of his vocabulary. 
The debate today arises from the tabling of a transcript of a Press conference held by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on Wednesday last at which he outlined the advice he would give to a conscientious objector to the Vietnam war. I stress that my Leader at no stage has indicated that he would encourage a conscientious objector to resist the draft. In fact, he would advise such persons to accept all their responsibilities - to register, to undergo medical examination, to report for service and to undertake their training. It is only when there is a likelihood that the objector will be sent to serve in Vietnam that a stand is to be taken. The advice which would be given when this stage was reached would be for the national serviceman then to take his stand on a matter of conscience that has been upheld by religious authorities within Australia and throughout the world. 
The Government and the Army would be notified in writing well before this situation had developed. They would be advised that this action would be taken. If the Confrontation is to take place the Government and the Army will be the people who do the confronting. My Leader's advice has been deliberately and poisonously misconstrued and misinterpreted. But after a few years experience in this House dealing with members of the Government one learns to accept that no trick is too low and no lie is too great if there is some political advantage to be gained. During this debate it has already been implied, and it will be implied, that members of the Opposition are guilty of treachery, treason, sedition and subversion. We will be. labelled as Communist stooges and traitors. But our records as loyal Australians will match or surpass the records of any member of the Government. 
The man who is most under attack today is my Leader. For the benefit of the House and the nation I take the opportunity to give a brief history of him and his family. He is the son of an ex-Crown Solicitor of the Commonwealth of Australia who was also Australia's representative on the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations.  His  wife is the daughter of a late Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales who was also the Vice-Chairman of the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council.  Mrs Whitlam,  who is known to roost of us in this House as a charming, distinguished and friendly woman is herself a diplomate in social studies from the University of Sydney.  His  sister is the principal of a leading Sydney girls school.  His  eldest son is a graduate of the Australian National University.  His  second son is a graduate of Harvard and London.  His  third son will be graduating from the University of Sydney this year.  His  daughter, who is still at school, has the distinction of attending the same school as the daughters of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  I do not know who is going to be corrupted. 
The Leader of the Opposition is a Queen's Counsel. As a law student he was an associate of two Justices of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, one of whom has since been appointed to the High Court. He has acted as junior counsel to a royal commisison. Does this sound like a man who could be guilty of undermining law and order or of encouraging mutiny? As we are discussing service in the Armed Forces, let me continue by informing the House that during his university days he was a volunteer member of the University Regiment. Unlike some present and past members of this House his military career was not spoilt by the advent of war. He volunteered for service with the Royal Australian Air Force "during the 1939-45 War and served for 4 years as an air crew member. At the conclusion of his service he was one of the personal air crew of the representative of the Australian Chief of Staff at General MacArthur's Headquarters. This was a trusted position indeed. Besides his family life and his public life in Australia, the Leader of the Opposition has also been personally acquainted with more heads of state and heads of government in our region, and indeed the world, than any other member of this Parliament and by his conduct, integrity and capacity he enjoys their confidence. 
The Leader of the Opposition has served his nation with honour in peace and war. He has enjoyed the confidence of his fellow men in every sphere in which he has worked. His reputation, his family and his personal conduct is above reproach, but that does not prevent the members of the Government from stooping to this vile attack upon his loyalty to Australia. But whatever is or has been said there are few if -ny of the Government members who can face the world with a clearer conscience or steadier eye. He or his family have never been involved in diplomatic incidents or murky court cases. Our Leader has earned the confidence of his Party and the people of Australia, and this cheap political trick today will leave bis reputation unsullied. The cause of today's debate was the introduction of conscription in Australia. The cause of most of the troubles in Australia at the moment in relation to defence and law and order is the fact that conscription was introduced in 1964. The Government is now reaping the effects of a political action that was taken in 1964. 
There has been dissatisfaction in Australia ever since conscription was introduced. It was recognised then as being unnecessary, that it was being introduced for political reasons and as an easy way to acquire sufficient numbers for the Army. The Opposition maintained in 1964 that conscription whs unnecessary and it maintains that today. Our hostility has strengthened because our young conscripts are being sent to fight in the undeclared war in Vietnam. I have always claimed that the introduction of conscription in 1964 was a political decision and contrary to military advice. Let us go back to August 1964 when the Minister for the Army, now the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  made his first comprehensive statement in this House on national service training. After giving all the reasons why it was uneconomical and inefficient to introduce national service training the Minister said: 
We have not introduced it because to do so would be against the unanimous advice of our military advisers. 
On 26th October in the same year the same Minister went to the National Congress of the Returned Services League held in Hobart and to those ex-servicemen the Minister said: 
I could perhaps say. however, that we have not introduced conscription up to this point in time because our military advisers have indicated in the clearest and most  unmistakeable  terms that it is noi the most effective way of creating the Army we need to meet the situation we face.  1  stress that this is military advice. 
Despite these very firm and forthright statements against the introduction of national service on 10th November 1964 the then Prime Minister made a defence statement in the House and announced the decision to introduce selective compulsory service. The reason given for the introduction of national service was the confrontation of Malaysia by Indonesia. The Prime Minister said:   lt is very much to be feared that if Indonesia provoked  a  war, the only people in Indonesia who would get advantage from it would be the Communists, ever ready to thrive on disorder and defeat 
The old Communist bogey again, lt is raised on every occasion the Government is in trouble and when a Senate election is pending. The Government has disorder and defeat in Australia now and this is caused by conscription. By not facing up to the will of the people the Government is sowing the seeds for the Communists to increase their strength in Australia. Conscription for overseas service in peace time is morally wrong and should be abolished. This is why the Opposition has moved an amendment to this motion today. But conscription is also inefficient and unfair as has recently been stated by the report of  iiic r  President's Commission  oil an  All-Vo- lunteer Armed Force - a report commissioned by the  President  of the United States of America and presented in February this year. The finding of the Commission was: 
We unanimously believe that the nation's interests will be better served by an all-volunteer force, supported by an effective stand-by draft, than by a mixed force of volunteers and conscripts; that steps should be taken promptly to move in this direction; and that the first indispensable step is to remove the present inequity in the pay ot men serving their first term in the armed forces. 
We have satisfied ourselves that a volunteer force will not jeopardise national security, and we believe it will have a beneficial effect on the military as well as the rest of our society. 
The Commission was made up of 15 members. Its chairman was Thomas Gates  -  a former Secretary of Defense. The members of that Commission came from a wide range of community activities in the United States and they unanimously decided that a volunteer force would be better than a drafted force. This report must be regarded as an informed, impartial and independent report. Some of the arguments advanced for the finding are that conscription is unfair and expects only a certain class in the community to make the sacrifice. In a chapter headed 'Conscription is a Tax' it is said: 
Any government has essentially 2 ways of accomplishing an objective whether it be building an interstate highway system or raising an army. It can expropriate the required tools and compel construction mcn and others to work until the job is finished or it can purchase the goods and manpower necessary to complete the job. Under tha first alternative, only the persons who own the property seized or who render compulsory service are required to bear the expense of building the highway or housing project. They pay a tax to finance the project, albeit a ta.x-in-kind. Under the second alternative, the cost of the necessary goods and services is borne by the general public through taxes raised to finance the project. Conscription is like the first alternative - a taxinkind. 
Later in the same chapter the report states: 
When the hidden costs of conscription are fully recognised, the cost of an all-volunteer armed force is unquestionably less than the cost of a force of equal size and quality manned wholly or partly through conscription. The all-volunteer costs are lower for four reasons. 
The four reasons are then listed Further on in the report there is mention of Australia's system of selective compulsory training and I will again quote from the report. I am quoting from the report because I feel that having been commissioned by the  President  of the United States of America it is well worth study by members of the Government. If the Government wants to cut out the demonstrations and curtail the activities of those people who thrive on disorder it should listen to the voice in this House of the representatives of the people and also to the organisations outside. Members of the Labor Opposition are not the only people who are telling the Government that conscription is unjust and unnecessary. The -churches are telling the Government these things as are other organisations throughout the community but the Government has become so complacent that it will not listen. Perhaps it will listen to the report from which I am quoting. Dealing with Australia the report states: 
Some have cited the Australian decision to return to a draft as evidence that an all-volunteer force is not feasible for the United States. There are several reasons why this argument by analogy is inappropriate. First, the Australians have not made a concerted effort to attract additional recruits on a voluntary basis. Once the decision was made to use conscription to raise force levels, no serious effort was made to increase voluntary enlistments either by raising pay or redoubling recruiting efforts. 
It goes on to say: 
The Australians could have expanded the size of the armed forces on a voluntary basis by raising pay and re-organising recruiting. 
Later on in the report, again dealing with our lottery system of selective compulsory training, it says: 
The lottery draft recently adopted is at best an expedient. It is important to recognise that the tax inequity implicit in the draft is not eliminated by substituting a lottery for present methods of selection. In theory the lottery makes it equally probable that any individual might be selected from those eligible to serve. It thus aims at equity In selection, but equity in selection is not equity in service.  Thse  few who are selected to serve, whether at random or otherwise, still pay a large tax-in-kind in order to reduce taxes for the majority. 
The Labor Opposition says that if the Government cared to make an attempt to recruit volunteer forces, to serve in Vietnam if necessary, it would be able to do it. I have quoted extracts from speeches made in this House and elsewhere by the former Minister for the Army, now the Minister for Health. In 1964, a matter of 10 or 12 days before conscription was announced by the then Prime Minister, the Minister was travelling around the country saying that the introduction of national service training was against the unanimous advice of the Government's military advisers. The Government has to admit that its introduction was a political decision. The Government has got into difficulty with it. The war in Vietnam is curtailing the recruitment of young men into our Regular forces because of the fact that the Army is made up of volunteers and conscripts. Opportunities by way of pay and condi tions are not available to assist recruiting. These are some of the things that the Government should look at. 
Ali members of the Opposition are called upon frequently to give advice or assistance to young men who have been called up, are about to be called up or are about to register for national service training. I tell them to take the risk, to register, to have their medical examination and to undertake their training. The Leader of the Opposition has said that he goes that far and then says: 'If they are going to send you to Vietnam, make your stand on a matter df conscience against a particular war.' The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  spoke about the rights of conscientious objectors, but a person has to be a conscientious objector to all wars, not only to the particular undeclared war in Vietnam. Conscription in Australia has been causing anxiety and discontent ever since it was introduced. The troubles it has created are the responsibility of the Government and until conscription is abolished these troubles will continue and, indeed increase. 
This debate arose over the question of conscription. After what I have said, after what has been said by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and after what will be said by the 2 speakers to follow rae I think it will be clear that there is great feeling in the Australian community against conscription and against conscripts being used in the Vietnam war. The policy of the Labor Party allows for conscription in time of emergency, so members of the Opposition are not against conscription. 1 speak as a man who was a conscript in the 1939-45 war. I had to take my 2 cut lunches at the behest of the Government of the day to the Belmore drill hall on 29th December 1941. I went as a conscript and finally became a volunteer, so I have no objection to conscription. Most of the men behind me have no objection to conscription when Australia is in dire need, but while members opposite are playing politics with the lives of our young fellows in Vietnam in an undeclared war we are against conscription. 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sifting suspended from  12.43  to  2.15  p.m. 
Having in mind proposals for the erection of a nuclear power station on Commonwealth territory and, in that connection, the need to examine the efficiency or otherwise of this scourse of energy, I move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $10 as an instruction to the Government that a select committee of this House should be appointed to inquire into and report on the uses of nuclear power in relation to - 
the projected power needs of the Commonwealth; 
the comparative advantage derived from generating, power .in this way as against all other sources now being employed; 
the effects of the establishment of a nuclear power station upon the environment; 
administrative- procedures and regulations adopted elsewhere to lessen any undesirable effects of the operation of such a. station to ensure the utmost protection of members of the public and the national interest; and 
the desirability of establishing a nuclear power station at this time pending the outcome of further technological developments taking place elsewhere. 
An announcement was made in the Budget Speech that this year there would be an allocation of $2.4m for expenditure on the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay and that more money would be made available if required. The Opposition is far from satisfied that full and proper consideration was given to the decision before it was announced to build the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. To allay any doubts that the Australian Labor Party is opposed to the introduction of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes I propose to state Labor's policy in this respect. It is as follows: 
Civil application of nuclear energy will play a significant role in Australia's development through electricity generation, desalinaton and in some civil engineering applications. Despite the expenditure of over $150m on the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Australia is still not properly prepared for the advent of nuclear technology, and is lagging behind other developed countries in its adoption. 
Labor therefore proposes - 
Development of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission so that it may contribute more effectively to Australia's needs. 
The establishment of an undergraduate course in nuclear technology iri an Australian university. 
Stimulation of the growth of nuclear technology in Australia, particularly by early Commonwealth initiative to establish a nuclear power station. 
Investigation of the application of nuclear energy to desalination. 
No application of nuclear explosives to civil engineering except under the strictest surveillance and after exhaustive surveys have demonstrated that no untoward ecological damage will ensue. 
Australia's adherence to the nuclear weapons non-proliferation treaty, on the understanding that this will not hamper the growth of civil nuclear technology in Australia. 
It will be seen that it is the Labor Party's intention to encourage the development of nuclear technology in Australia, but we certainly do not want to be sold a pig in a poke for over $ 13.0m for our first power station. Our amendment queries whether sufficient consideration has been given to the integrated power needs of the Commonwealth, the economics of nuclear power, the environmental effects, the safety standards for nuclear power stations and the timing of the establishment of our first nuclear station. 
My doubts were first raised on this subject when I and others in this House and the Senate placed a number of questions on notice and asked questions without notice in this House and in the Senate. We found that we received far from satisfactory answers and, in many instances, no answers at all. I asked a number of questions of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  during question time and I received generalised answers which evaded the point of the questions. For instance, I have had a question on notice since 3rd June this year. It  is  question No. 1193 and it seeks information on sites other than Jervis Bay which had been considered for the power station. I still have not received an answer to that question. On 5th September  Sir Phillip  Baxter stated on the 'Four Corners' television programme - and I quote from the transcript of the presentation: 
Then we looked al sites, many of them in Canberra, in New Sooth Wales, different places and finally at Jervis Bay. Jervis Bay, on all counts came out to be the best of them. 
A document which I received from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission some months ago states:  . . after a preliminary survey involving approximately15 sites in all, 8 were selected for more detailed investigation. Two of these were in the Australian Capital Territory, 4 in New South Wales including one in the Snowy Mountains, and 2 on Commonwealth Territory at Jervis Bay. Each site was examined on the basis of availability of water for cooling purposes, topography, proximity to planned urban development and other safety and public relations aspects. 
Yet my question of 3rd June, which was very straight forward, cannot be answered. The question was: 
Were any other sites besides Jervis Bay considered for the building of Australia's first nuclear power station? If so, where were the sites and why was each discarded in favour of Jervis Bay? 
But  Sir Phillip  Baxter,  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, could say on television that a number of sites were examined. Fifteen sites in all were examined and it was sifted down to eight for final examination but the Minister cannot tell me, a member of this Parliament, the sites that were considered I am left with only one conclusion and that is that no other site was examined, and I doubt very much whether Jervis Bay was given thorough consideration. My doubts on Jervis Bay are based on answers to questions 1 have received giving contradictory information. In answer to question No. 1191 regarding studies made on ecological and environmental factors at the sites considered for a nuclear power station, the Minister replied: 
The reports to which the honourable member has referred are confidential studies by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Electricity Commission of New South Wales prepared for management. 
Yet in answer to question No. 1 194 regarding the release of heated waste at Jervis Bay I was told by the Minister: 
The Government is aware of the nature of thermal pollution, and detailed examination of environmental and ecological factors is being made so that any disturbance of the environment at Jervis Bay will not be significant 
So in one answer I was told that the reports have been made and are confidential and in the next answer I was told that detailed examinations are being made. 
I asked for an explanation of this contradictory information in a written question No. 1161 on 21st August 1970 and I have still not received a reply. I do not object to being called a fool but I object most strongly to being treated as such. I am certain that this is what the Minister and the Atomic Energy Commission are doing not only to this House and to me but to scientists and the public generally. Nobody in the community seems to be able to obtain any detailed information on very important factors surrounding the introduction of Australia's first nuclear power station. 
I can give several other examples of unsatisfactory or misleading answers to questions I have asked. One reached me last night. In answer to question No. 1109 the Minister referred to a paper by Messrs Davy, Giles and Charish entitled 'Ecological Factors in the Siting, Design and Operation of a Nuclear Power Station' and said: 
The paper has now been prepared in its final form and  a  copy will be made available for the honourable member if he so desires. The paper will be submitted to the Ecological Society for Australia for publication in the proceedings of the Symposium if they so desire. 
But the Minister released that paper to me and to the Press on 12th June 1970 and it has taken until 30th September for me to receive a written reply to my question of 20th May this year. Would you be surprised,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  ifI said that I doubt the information in the answer I have now received? I have every reason to believe that after this paper was prepared - I have a copy of it in my hand together with the statement that the Minister released on 12th June for the information of the Press - it was censored and altered by a very senior official of the Atomic Energy Commission. I hope I have shown that the Parliament has been treated with scant consideration in its endeavours to obtain factual information on the establishment of the first nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. If time permitted I could give further examples of reluctance te supply information on the economics, the safety factors and the preparations that are being made at the site. All that information should have been available to the Atomic Energy Commission, the Minister and the Government before the decision was announced. The first nuclear power station was estimated to cost SI 30m when the announcement was made; but now there is silence on the amount that it will cost. The  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission has indicated that by the turn of the century in the vicinity of $5,00On will have been spent on nuclear power stations throughout Australia. 
I suggest and the Opposition suggests that this is a matter at which we have to look closely. There are environmental factors. There are safety factors. There is the question of the efficiency of nuclear power at the moment. Technologies are being developed throughout the world Which, perhaps, will outdate our first nuclear power station almost before it is in operation. 1 am convinced that risks are being taken in the establishment of our first nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. It is for that reason that I, on behalf of the Opposition, have moved this amendment to the estimates for the Department. The Opposition does not wish to maximise pessimism or optimism. We want information, and a select committee will provide that for the Parliament and the community. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did Messrs Davy, Miles and Charash of the Atomic Energy Commission, ever agree to present  a  paper to a symposium organised by the Ecological Society of Australia. 
If so, was the agreement to present the paper withdrawn, re-entered and then withdrawn a second time. 
Did the first paper prepared refer to ecological considerations in the Jervis Bay area. 
Was an objection by a member of the Atomic Energy Commission the reason for the withdrawal of this paper. 
How long will it be before a paper dealing with the ecological considerations in the Jervis Bay area can be presented to an appropriate symposium or made available for public scrutiny. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Could the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay and subsequent reactors be used as sources of fissionable material for the manufacture of nuclear weapons. 
If so, is the Government prepared to give an assurance that fissionable material from nuclear reactors will never be used for the manufacture of nuclear weapons. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What are the requirements of  (a)  CANDU and (b) SGHWR type reactors for heavy water. 
Is Australia to manufacture its own heavy water; if so, what will be the (a) capital cost and (b) running costs of the plant. 
If Australia is not to manufacture its own heavy water, from what country will it bo obtained. 
asked the Minister for National Development upon notice: 
What are the prospects for commercial application of gas centrifuge enrichment technology. 
What is the present cost of gas centrifuge enrichment plant. 
Would the application of a SGHWR type reactor by Australia encourage our access to this technology. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
That Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means lest for aged pensioners and that a number of European countries also have no means test 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 71 per cent of their taxable incomes towards social services since the absorption of Special Social Services Taxation in income Tax and continue to make such payments. (7f per cent of all taxable incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,082,150 and this year will produce more than $800,000,000, more than sufficient to abolish the means test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavily, taxed sector of the community, subsidises the tax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected by the government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the means test will give  a  boost to the economy by - 
additional tax revenue from pensions, 
swelling of the work force, and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just and right to allow people who have been frugal have lived their lives wilh dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that dignity to the end of their lives free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the means test for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Were any other sites besides Jervis Bay considered for building of Australia's first nuclear power station. 
If so, where were the sites and why was each discarded in favour of Jervis Bay. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the enrichment of uranium in the United States of America is performed by a government instrumentality. 
If so, has he- any information as to what the effect on the price and availability of enriched uranium would be if this responsibility were handed over to private enterprise in the United States of America. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What are the respective (a) advantages and (b) disadvantages to Ausatralia if (i) natural uranium or  GO  enriched uranium is adopted as the fuel for our nuclear power stations. 
This Bill provides for an increase in licence fees for radio communications stations. The Bill is entitled 'A Bill for an Act to amend certain regulations under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1905-1967'. The licence fees for these telecommunications stations have not been increased since 1924 when they were fixed at $2. Radio communications stations are graded into 5 categories - land, mobile, fixed, amateur and receiving. The licence fees for land and fixed stations are to be increased from $2 to $10; licence fees  for mobile, amateur and receiving stations are to be increased from $2 to $6; but the $2 fee will continue to apply to stations operating as outpost services. The category of outpost services includes services associated With 'Schools of the Air', the Flying Doctor, aerial ambulance and those services in which a radio is the only means of public communication. The $2 fee will also continue to apply to mission stations in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea as well as to ambulance services and rural fire brigades. 
It appears to me that careful consideration has been given to the breakdown of stations into the varying grades of fees. The Opposition acknowledges the strong arguments for the increases in the licence fees for these radio communications stations. As I have said, the fee of $2 has been in operation since 1924. Until 1950 only 5,115 stations were in operation and the costs of technical supervision and administration Were not a burden to the Government. But since 1950 the number of stations has increased to 136,000 and a substantial number of extra stations is being added each year. The present annual deficit from this section to the PostmasterGeneral's Department is $800,000. This is too much for the Department to carry. The new range of fees will return approximately $620,000 in 1970-71. This will still leave a fairly large deficit of $180,000. 
The Opposition offers no objection to the increases. I have received no criticism from any member of the public or any member of an organisation which conducts one of these radio communication stations. No member of the Opposition has mentioned to me that he has received any criticism from any member of the public. The Opposition believes that the increases are fair and just. I conclude by saying that it is the first time that the Government has shown such commendable patience before increasing a tax or charge. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What barriers exist to the employment in Commonwealth departments and statutory bodies of (a) the physically impaired who are not occupationally handicapped when assigned to the right jobs, (b) the mentally restored whose only handicap is that they once suffered an emotional illness, (c) the mentally retarded who can demonstrate the ability to perforin the simple and routine tasks that need doing in all organisations. 
How many people in these categories are employed in Commonwealth departments and statutory bodies. 
Will he undertake to encourage the employment of many more of these people in Government and private employment. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, by citing the case of a family in my electorate which has already had one son undergo his national service training and is now faced with the prospect of the next 2 sons - twins - having been called up for national service. The son who has undergone service, including a year in Vietnam, is under medical treatment for a nervous condition. I ask the Prime Minister whether he and the Government consider it to be just and equitable that one family should be compelled, under the lottery system of selecting national servicemen, to supply 3 sons for the Army while thousands of families are never expected to provide even one son. Is there any provision in the National Service Act or any other Commonwealth statute or regulation which could be used to relieve the burden on this family? If not, will the Prime Minister, in the Australian tradition of justice and equality, issue a directive that these 2 boys are to be declared ineligible for national service training? 
The House is being asked to validate tariff proposals which were introduced some time ago. Tariff Proposals No. 11 were introduced on 22nd May 1970; Tariff Proposals No. 12 were introduced on 11th June 1970; Tariff Proposals Nos 14 to 18 were introduced on 25th August 1970; Tariff Proposals No. 19 were introduced on 16th September 1970; Tariff Proposals No. 20 were introduced on 22nd October 1970; and then there are the proposals which were introduced today. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  made a speech in relation to each of those tariff proposals which were introduced. For instance, when introducing Tariff Proposals No. 12 he said that the Government intended to adopt the recommendations by the Tariff Board in its interim report under the inquiry on plastic products, etc., in relation to alginic acid and its derivatives. He went on to outline the proposals which had been recommended by the Tariff Board and accepted by the Government. When introducing Tariff Proposals Nos 14 to 18 the Minister said: 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just tabled relate' to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1970. Customs Tariff Proposals 
Nos 14 to 18 (J970) formally place before Parliament the tariff changes made by 'Gazette' notices and published in the 'Gazettes' of 2nd and 6th July and 3rd and 4lh August while the Parliament was in recess. 
Then he went on to outline the products which were affected by the tariff proposals. My research indicates to me that in most of these amendments to the Customs Tariff there were decreases in the amount of tariff charged. In introducing Tariff Proposals No. 19 the Minister said that the Government intended to implement the acceptance of the Tariff Board's report on pencils, crayons and chalks. The preferential tariff for ordinary lead pencils . was increased by  2i  per cent. The Minister said: 
This represents an increase of 2i per cent general tariff, 5 per cent preferential tariff of the value of loose pencils but in relation to boxed goods and cheap pencils duties will be somewhat reduced. Tariff protection is reduced on school chalks by 274 per cent or more of their value. Other goods, such as crayons and slate pencils,  wilt now be admitted at non-protective rates of duty of 7i per cent general tariff, free preferential tariff. 
The Minister also referred in his speech to preferential treatment being given to imports from New Zealand. When introducing Tariff Proposals No. 20 on 22nd October last, which dealt with vinyl acetate and cellulose acetate flake, the Minister said that the duties which were being introduced represented a reduction of 10 per cent under both the general and the preferential tariff. He said that they would come into effect on 1st December 1970. In introducing the tariff proposals relating to the Tariff Board's report on nitrogenous fertilisers today the Minister said that the Government had accepted the Tariff Board's recommendations. 
The Board recommended that the duties on ammonium chloride should be reduced to 7J per cent general tariff, with free preferential tariff. So in most of the customs tariff proposals which we are now being asked to validate there has been a reduction in the tariff that is presently being charged. 
The Bill that we are now asked to pass through the House will allow the Government to make decisions on tariffs while the Parliament is in recess, and I understand that it is necessary for the Government only to give notice of reductions or increases in tariff in the 'Gazette'. This will be the procedure followed between the end of this week and perhaps the middle of February 1971 or even later. The Parliament is being asked to give an open cheque to the Government for its tariff policy. There is some criticism of the Government's tariff policy and of the policy being adopted , by the Tariff Board. 
I am beginning to wonder . whether the refusal of this Government to face up to the controversy on tariff policy, which it has dodged for 3 years now, is not a back door approach to establishing a pool of unemployed. There are so many in the Government who see such a pool as wholly essential to industrial peace and control of inflation. But they cannot come out openly, and for purely political purposes they have to present themselves as great supporters of full employment. However, we know that they still see great value in a pool of unemployed, and it may be that the Tariff Board has unwittingly presented them with a great opening. Perhaps what the Gorton Government wants to do is see the Tariff Board's policy put into practice, but without coming out in public and agreeing with it and without saying that the Government will adopt the Board's policy. 
The manoeuvre is quite obvious. For 3 years now the Government has been pretending that the Tariff Board has not produced a new policy. The Government covers it over by saying such things as 'lt is good for the Board to improve the quality of its advice*. Then at the same time the Government keeps saying to manufacturers that they should not be concerned, because the Government's tariff policy is unchanged, and the Government will take the final decisions. How can the Government take its own decisions when Tariff Board reports do not give the information necessary in taking a decision? We know that the Government gets no more from the Tariff Board than the report which is made available to honourable members and to the public generally. We are asked in this Parliament to decide on the tariff changes that come out of these reports. We can no more make our own decisions than the Government can. For so long as Tariff Board reports do not give the information needed to make an assessment of the recommendations, the Parliament, like the Government, is stuck with the recommendations. For so long as reports of that kind are accepted by the Government, anything the Tariff Board says will be adopted by the Government because it has no alternative. The question is whether it really and honestly wants any alternative. 
The Government has not got access to the Tariff Board's papers. It cannot get the workings and the arithmetic that led to the recommendations. If the Government wanted to make a decision different from the Tariff Board's recommendation it would either have to rework the entire case itself or make a guess. I do not believe that there is in the Department of Trade and Industry a unit that could rework the case. Even if there were, it would not have all the information that the Tariff Board has. These are the plain facts of the matter. The Government should stop talking in circles about its tariff policy being unchanged, or about making its own decision. The Government should stop claiming even that, it has a tariff policy until such time as it tells us, in words we can understand, just what the policy is. 
This is what the presidents of 15 national manufacturing associations said publicly on 24th September last about the Government's tariff policy:- 
Industry today is confused and uncertain as to Government protection policy, and as to the circumstances under which protection might be expected. It is now meaningless for the Government to say that its tariff policy is that economic and efficient industry will be protected, and that the Government will make its own decisions after viewing a report from the Tariff Board. 
Tariff Board reports do not give a full explanation of all of the circumstances on which the recommendations are based. They are rarely sufficiently comprehensive to enable an assessment to be made - either by the Government, or industry or anyone else - of the soundness of the recommendations. The Government's decision usually is expressed merely in terms that it has accepted the recommendations. 
Later they went on to say - 
Protection policy and industrial development policy are matters for determination at the highest Government and economic adviser level, and the Presidents call on the. Government to resume its responsibilities in those areas. 
How can this Government, in the face of that condemnation by people representing the whole of manufacturing industry, go on pretending that it has a tariff policy and that it takes the decisions. The people who said what I have quoted were not people of no consequence, but leaders of manufacturing industry. Let us have a look at some of them. The include: the  President,  Aluminium Development Council, the  President,  Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, the  President,  Australian Chemical Industry Council, the  President,  Australian Electrical Manufacturers' Association, the  President,  Australian Industries Development Association, the  President,  Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers, the  President,  Heavy Engineering Manufacturers' Association, the  President,  Metal Trades Industry Association and the  President,  The Textile Council of Australia, among others. There they were  15  presidents representing without question the whole of manufacturing industry in Australia, telling the Government that what it keeps saying about tariff policy is meaningless, and that it should resume its responsibilities to make decisions on tariff policy. 
But the Government still keeps saying those things, and the Deputy Prime Minister even as late as last week in Adelaide went over the whole worn-out story that Government tariff policy has not changed and that it will make its own decisions. 
Even this Government is not silly enough to continue to go on like this in the face of statements such as the one the manufacturers made. So there is some important reason behind this facade, and the reason seems to be that it wants the Tariff Board's policy to be put into practice because it wants a pool of unemployed. It sees most of the problems that face it now, and that it is not capable of handling, solved by the simple expedient of a pool of unemployed. The Tariff Board's policy will lead to the pool of unemployed. Not enough people are concerned about where that policy is taking us, because of the conditions of today. More people should start thinking beyond next weekend, and start asking just what that policy could do to them and their jobs. 
Too many people have fallen for the smart statement of the economists that tariff protection is no longer important in maintaining full employment. What they fail to see is that there- is some truth in that for so long as we retain the sort of protection we now have. But start to dismantle it, to considerably reduce it to the point where there is no alternative employment offering, and the smart economist's theory leads the way to rolling unemployment. The Tariff Board in its annual report for 1970 included a table - table 4, appendix 2 on page 32 - that is the master chart for tariff reduction and industry destruction. The last column of that table lists the degree to which a great range of industries are, on the Tariff Board's workings, receiving protection over the 50 per cent effective rate limit set by the Board. And here let us be clear that this does not mean a duty of 50 per cent. It means 50 per cent as the result of a formula worked out by the Board. The actual duty could be 15 per cent, 20 per cent, 30 per cent or 40 per cent. It becomes 50 per cent effective rate according to a formula worked out in the back room of the Tariff Board and which no one can check. 
 The point of order on practice which I make is that I tabled certain proposals that are the subject of this Customs Tariff Validation Bill. This Bill has nothing whatsoever to do with the general matters of policy that the honourable member is debating now in a highly political context, including the Tariff Board's annual report, the question of the 50 per cent protection, or whatever. I submit that for your consideration. 
There is not a great deal contained in the Bill which the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has just introduced. The Bill provides for amendments to the 
Act which was passed in this Parliament during the last session. There is only one point I want to make about this Bill. This Bill makes provision for the amounts of remuneration to be paid to the  Chairman  of the Film Development Corporation and other members of the Corporation. This Bill fixes the rates for the  Chairman  at $40 for a meeting of 3 hours or more and $25 for a meeting lasting less than 3 hours. Other members of the Corporation will be paid $35 for a meeting of 3 hours or more and $20 if a meeting takes under 3 hours. There is no indication in the Bill as to how these figures were worked out. I think we are entitled to have this. If the Minister would be good enough to give that information we have no objection to the Bill. 
The Leader  of  the House  (Mr Snedden)  has anticipated my question. I merely  make  the comment that the  salary  set out  in  the Bill is $7,431 more than a member of Parliament receives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The salary of the Commission of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation is to be $16,931. The Bill which is now before us sets the salary of the Assistant Directors of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation at $15,592 a year. The people who operate the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation are concerned with a financial undertaking and they will be expected to compete with outside firms in the construction, planning and study of engineering projects inside and outside Australia. It is mandatory upon the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to provide these operations out of the finances that it receives from the work that is undertaken. It seems to me that a man who is running a business undertaking, particularly one that will be as intense as the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, deserves as much money as the Commissioner of the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation, which will not be expected to operate as a business undertaking. I appreciate that perhaps this is the standard that is set for the general engineer in the Commonwealth Public Service, but in this instance the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is to compete with private enterprise. 1 think the occasion may arise when we will want people with knowledge, ability and experience a little greater than might be available in the Commonwealth Public Service. The salary that is being offered might not be sufficient to attract a first class engineer from private enterprise to work for the corporation. I think this is a point that the Government could keep well in mind. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, we have dealt with 3 Bills so far which fix one salaryof $16,931 per annum, one of $15,592 per annum and the third of $1 1,822 per annum. This is perhaps one reason whyI would not mind Parliament rather than the Public Service Board fixing salaries. Ifind it hard to follow that a person responsible for operating the Export Payments Insurance Corporation is deemed to be worth $16,931 per annum; that someone assisting to operate a business undertaking for the Commonwealth receives only $15,592 per annum; and that someone directing the activities of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority will receive $11,822 per annum only. 
In this Parliament from time to time expressions of opinion are given from the Government side about how difficult the Stevedoring industry is. Yet, here is a man who will have as part of his duties the job of trying to keep peace on the waterfront, and who will draw a salary much lower than the salaries paid to men in positions in which they will have far less industrial troubles on their hands than this man is likely to have. Whilst I do not really want Parliament to fix salaries, I sometimes wonder exactly how the Public Service Board arrives at its decisions in many of these matters. 
Clause 3 provides for a new sub-section (2.) of section 6c of the Act. It will read: 
The Director shall be paid such allowancesas are prescribed. 
This Bill is described as a Bill for an Act: 
Relating to the Salary and Allowances of the Person holding the Office of Director constituting the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. 
The earlier Bill relating to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation makes no mention of allowances being as prescribed. No mention at all of allowances is made in that Bill. If the Minister will be good enough to give the Parliament an explanation of those points, we shall not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
From what country would Australia obtain enriched uranium if a SGHWR type reactor was installed at Jervis Bay. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
On what grounds were the sites at Bristol Point and Scottish Inlet in the Jervis Bay area considered unsuitable for the construction of a nuclear power station. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration: How many migrants left Australia last year? How many of these migrants were dissatisfied? What were the reasons for their dissatisfaction? What action is he taking to ensure that all migrants who come to Australia are integrated into the community as quickly and harmoniously as possible? 
asked - the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will he make available a copy of any statement which he, or his predecessor, has made on (a) the national integration and (b) utilisation of various fuel and energy sources. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. In view of the announced intention of the Prime Minister to curtail expenditure in the public sector of the economy, does the Government intend at this stage to continue with the construction of the costly and economically doubtful nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay? 
The Bill which the House is now debating has been on the notice paper for some months. Its purpose is to make certain amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act in relation to the finances of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the delegation of authority by the Commission, the increasing of financial and time limits placed on the Commission in property transactions and the repeal of a limitation on the payment of compensation. It also seeks to make certain amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act which will curtail the tendencies of some of our mass media owners to extend their monopolistic tentacles even further into the ownership of broadcasting and television stations. 
The Opposition does not object to the new financial and banking provisions of the Bill, the repeal of the section limiting compensation payments or to the raising of the limits imposed on the tight of the Commission to purchase, dispose of and lease property, but it feels that the amendment which seeks to widen the powers of delegation of the Commission is open to criticism. At present the Commission can delegate to a Commissioner or to the General Manager all or any of its powers except the power of delegation. As the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  said in his second reading speech, this restriction of the delegation of power has led to administrative difficulties in that only the Commission or the General Manager may, for example, incur expenditure or issue contracts. The new proposal should allow for greater efficiency and more expeditious decisions, but I cannot understand why the restriction on the delegation of power to appoint officers of the Commission has been retained. Proposed section 40(1.) of the Act reads: 
The Commission may, by instrument in writing under ils common seal, delegate to a Commissioner or to an officer of, or other person employed by, the Commission, either generally or otherwise as provided by the instrument of delegation, all or any of the powers of the Commission under this Act except - 
the power to appoint officers of the Commission; and 
this power of delegation. 
I cannot imagine a more unwieldy and inefficient procedure than this imposition on the General Manager of the task of having to approve of the employment of every permanent officer of the Commission. The General Manager has to approve of the employment of the lowest paid junior which is a time consuming and annoying procedure to say the least." Surely the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission can be trusted to delegate authority for the appointment of all but senior officers to one of his present senior officers in each of the States. A good administrative officer is riot likely to delegate too much authority to one of his subordinates and he is certainly not likely to allow the appointment of senior officers to be exercised by other than himself. The Opposition suggests that the PostmasterGeneral should have another look at this matter and introduce the appropriate amendment during the Committee stage of the Bill. The Opposition will be anxious to hear the Government's reasons for the non-acceptance of this suggestion if it is reluctant to act. 
I turn now to some of the operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the radio and television field. In this regard I wish to pay a compliment to the management and staff of the Commission. Since its inception the ABC has done a magnificent job in presenting first class radio and television programmes. It has been shouldered with the responsibility under the Act of providing adequate and comprehensive programmes and is required to take, in the interests of the community, all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programmes. As. one who is more inclined to patronise the ABC's radio and television programmes than the programmes of commercial stations - I must admit that with the increasing interest that is being taken in pop music by my teenage children I do not get my own way as readily as previously  -  I have generally found them to be of. a high level. The Commission at least tries to present programmes which appeal to minority groups and certainly makes some attempt to encourage Australian actors, writers and artists. 
The public affairs programmes that the Commission presents are . generally of a high standard and dp make an effort to give coverage of controversial topics of public interest and importance. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is the only television authority with regular current affairs programmes and this is a situation which is to be deplaned. The commercial stations have a duly to present regular current affairs programmes as does the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Commission's activities iri ' music, concerts, drama, features, education, -Papua and New Guinea and over Radio Australia cater for both majority and minority audiences. In its 37th annual report,., for 1968-69 the Commission states: 
The Commission invites attention to the ABC's continuing concern with the :efficient operation of ils services as they now stand at home and abroad; to the additional financial burden which must be associated with further extensions of services to less populous areas of Australia; -to the future cost of the introduction of colour television and the general costs of maintaining its diverse services. 
In its annual report for 1969-70 the Commission is shown as having a total expenditure of $53,008,659. Included in this expenditure are such charges as approximately $4m paid to the PostmasterGeneral's Department for tine charges. This is approximately 8 per cent of the total budget of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Commission is compelled to pay this amount to the Postmaster-General's Department for the use of its interstate and intrastate lines. It is a charge imposed by the Postmaster-General's Department and the Commission has no right to negotiate a price on a contract basis. It is a case of: Pay up or the lines are not available'. As a business undertaking the . PostmasterGeneral's Department should be prepared to enter into a contract for the supply of lines, when required, by the national radio and television radio stations. The .complaint of high charges for relaying programmes is also made by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations in its annual report for 1969. On page 25 the report states: 
The increased use of satellite reception of television programmes has, however, thrown into sharp focus the  extremely  high cost of relaying programmes through the internal relay systems furnished by the Australian Post Office ... its rates for microwave relays do mitigate against their greater use by the industry, and particularly by stations outside me mainland capital cities. 
A comparison of rates charged by the Australian Post Office and rates charged in the United States of America for a 1-hour telecast at full time rates over a similar mileage is as follows: which was recently opened between Melbourne and Perth costs approximately $8,600 for 1 hour of transmission. The charges for a cable distance of approximately 2,000 miles from Sydney to Perth are about Si 0,300. A relay over 2,451 miles in the United States would cost $1,202. So there is a difference of 800 per cent or 900 per cent in charges between Australia and the United States. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is supposed to be efficient but if these charges are so high it is no wonder that the Commission is spending something like 8 per cent of its total outlay for the year on cable charges. It will be seen from the figures that I have quoted that Western Australian, Tasmanian and country stations and people are disadvantaged by the high cost of Post Office relays. People in the distant States and people in the country are entitled to view major Australian or international events at the same time as those in the capital cities on the eastern seaboard and it is about time that the Post Office reviewed its charges for the use of relay facilities by national and commercial television stations. 
Some further charges that are imposed on the Commission without any concession being granted to the Commission for the community service aspect of its activity are in the fields of programmes on radio and television for schools, the operation of Radio Australia and operations in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. In none of these activities is the Commission given any subsidy by the Government to cover some of the cost, yet no-one can deny that the work performed in all of these areas is of paramount importance to Australia. The Commission should not be expected to bear the whole of the financial burden for these or other community services. The Departments of Foreign Affairs, External Territories and Education and Science should be compelled to contribute towards the cost of these service programmes. 
Another expense of considerable volume which is borne by the Commission is the rent paid for leased premises throughout the Commonwealth. This amounts to approximately Si. 25m per annum. In its report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission the Joint Committee of Public Accounts published on page 83 a table - I see the  Chairman  of . the Committee, the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  in the House at the moment - which shows that the Commission owns office and studio space in capital cities amounting to 577,911 sq ft and leases for the same purpose premises providing 376,390 sq ft. The amount of space leased in country areas is not shown. The Commission had drawn attention to this state of affairs in its 35th annual report of 1966-67. It stated: 
The Commission again draws attention of Parliament to some of  the  difficulties under which its organisation works. The role of the ABC in mass communication is important in our developing community. Its annual expenditure is large and Parliament has the right to expect efficiency and economy on the one hand and responsibility on the other.  lt stated further: 
However in spite of some improvement, the ABC Still operates in Sydney from 17 separate and largely unsuitable buildings and in Melbourne from 10 buildings. In other cities, the situation is similar. Effective supervision and control is not easy because of this division of personnel between widely separated locations - a situation which inhibits the necessary consultation between officers and the effective co-ordination of our varied activities. The Commission has an urgent need for new buildings in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne and it is hoped that in spite of other claims, Parliament will find it possible to approve the capital costs involved. 
I recall that during the past few months there have been a couple of announcements made of plans for the provision of new buildings for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. But not only the amount of space that is leased by the Commission but also the diverse types of widely separated locations must have an influence on efficiency by their effect on supervision, travelling time, staff rostering and communications, as was pointed out in the Commission's 37th annual report. As far as I can ascertain, the position in relation to accommodation for the Australian Broadcasting Commission has deteriorated rather than improved since 1967. Again I say that a couple of announcements have been made about improvements in this position. The present position in capital cities appears to be that in Sydney 20 buildings are leased, in Melbourne S, in Brisbane 4, in Adelaide 3 and in Hobart 2. In country areas in New South Wales 7 buildings are leased, in Victoria 3, in Queensland 4, in Western Australia 6 and in South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory 1 each. 
The 110th Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, dealing with the Australian Broadcasting Commission, drew attention to the deplorable accommodation available in various States to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The report used that very word 'deplorable' in describing conditions in Adelaide. The report went on to say that the fire protection and construction of the Hindmarsh Square building were totally sub-standard. The report stated that the accommodation in Melbourne was inadequate. It stressed the need to consolidate the operations in Sydney and to improve dilapidated studios. The accommodation in Brisbane was described as over-crowded and inadequate. The Committee concluded its report on the buildings used by the Commission by stating: 
On the basis of the evidence and the inspections that it made your Committee believes that the capital city accommodation available to the Commission, particularly for radio and administration purposes, is inadequate and in many cases is seriously sub-standard. Your Committee further believes that, in the interests of efficiency, sustained and urgent efforts should be made to provide the buildings required by the Commission. 
With this the Opposition agrees. We ask the Government to take immediate action to provide accommodation which will allow the ABC to perform its statutory functions and to provide adequate and comprehensive programmes as efficiently and as economically as possible. Part of the Bill allows for a change in accounting procedures for the Board and for the Commission. It is in relation to that part of the Bill that I have spoken today. If the Government expects the Commission to operate efficiently and economically, the Government has a duty to assist the Commission by providing some of the facilities that it requires, particularly in relation to buildings. I return to Hie point about dele-, gatton of authority. I ask the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  to consider giving power of delegation of authority to the General Manager in relation to appointing staff. 
The Bill also provides for the curtailment of certain investments of superannuation funds in television station shares. This is not the first time that  wa  have discussed the curtailment of the ever-spreading control and ownership of television stations. Since the introduction of television in Australia in 1956 this type of amendment has become commonplace. The companies which have been granted television and radio licences have tried every means at their disposal to circumvent the provision of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part 4 of the Act on ownership and control, and they are still trying. Legislation was introduced in 1960, 1965 and 1969 in an attempt to curtail the activities of those people who already controlled major newspapers, radio stations and television stations in Australia. Less than 1 2 . months after the 1969 amendments had been moved, this Bill was brought into the House. The Opposition has repeatedly warned of the dangers of having an almost monopolistic control of our mass media. lt is interesting to look at the ownership and control of our broadcasting and television stations. A perusal of pages 144-49 of the 22nd Annual Report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board shows that in relation to capital city newspapers the Adelaide Newspaper Ltd, that is the Advertiser' in Adelaide, has substantial or multiple interests in 4 radio stations and 1 television station; the Australian Consolidated Press group, that is the 'Daily Telegraph' in Sydney, has substantial control of 11 radio stations and 10 television stations; Davies Brothers, that is the 'Mercury' in Hobart, has substantial control of 2 radio stations and I television station; John Fairfax Limited, that is the 'Sydney Morning Herald', 10 radio stations and 10 television stations; the Herald and Weekly Times, that is the Melbourne 'Herald', 17 radio stations and 5 television stations; News Limited, that is the 'News' in Adelaide, 5 radio stations and 1 1 television stations; Queensland Press Limited, that is the Courier Mail' and the 'Telegraph' in Brisbane, 3 radio stations and I television station; West Australian Newspapers, that is the 'West Australian' in Perth, 5 radio stations and 1 television station. The same thing apples with regard to provincial newspapers - newspapers controlling 2 radio stations and 3 television stations. These things, must be stopped. I am pleased that the Minister is making a further attempt to do so in this Bill. 
 I move: 
In proposed section I32A, sub-section (4.), paragraph (d), omit 'within two years' and insert at any time'. 
The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  in the speech which he has just delivered, said that there was a simple procedure which could be followed whereby someone who had allegedly been served a summons by post, who had been convicted and who could then show that he had not received the summons at all or in time to allow him to do something, could apply to the court within 2 years after the date of the conviction, or an officer Of the PostmasterGeneral's Department could apply to the court within 2 years after the date of the conviction, for the conviction to be set aside. The Opposition moves the deletion of the words 'within 2 years' and the insertion of the words 'at any time' because a person who was summonsed for an infringement of the Act could have left for overseas just prior to the issue of the summons and might not return to Australia for three or four years. He might be a member of the Foreign Affairs Department who was posted away and who did nothing about it or perhaps knew that the summons was there and let it go. If he came back after 2 years he might then find that in his absence, as he had not appeared at court, he had been convicted of an infringement of the Act. He has no right under this clause of applying to the court to have the conviction set aside. 
The Opposition cannot see that there is any good reason or that there are sufficient reasons for making the limitation of 2 years. Most of these applications would be made within a short period of the conviction having been recorded, so the Opposition cannot see that there is any difficulty in removing the words 'within 2 years' and inserting the words 'at any time'. I commend the amendment to the Minister. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Are former employees of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission restricted., legally or otherwise, from contributing to public discussion on nuclear power stations; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for  National  Development, upon notice: 
Do reports exist on the (a) geological, (b) hydrological, (e) hydrographical, (d) meteorological, (e) ecological and. (f) - environmental investigations of sites for. a nuclear power station, other than the site selected al Jervis Bay. 
If so, will be make these reports available. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did he in his answer to Question No. 1191 (Hansard, 19th August 1970, page 252) infer that confidential studies of the environmental and ecological factors in the siting of the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay had been made. 
Did he in his answer to Question No. 1194 (Mansard, 19th August 1970, page 253) state that a detailed examination of environmental and ecological factors is being made so that any disturbance of the environment at Jervis Bay will not be significant. 
If so, which answer is correct. 
asked  the  Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Was the Western Australian State Government approached when the site of the first nuclear power station in Australia was being considered. 
If so, was any interest shown in siting the station in that State. 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent announcement by the State Electricity Commission of Western Australia that it is now interested in the construction of a nuclear power station. 
Does this represent a change of mind by the Western Australian authorities; if so, is be able to give the reasons for this. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say whether Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd has expressed interest in installing a nuclear power station in Western Australia. 
Has his attention been drawn to statements on this matter made by both the Company  and  the Premier of Western Australia. 
If so, was he or the Australian Atomic Energy Commission aware of these statements when the answer to Question No.- 1271 (Hansard, 19th August 1970, page 254) was being prepared. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many officers from the Commonwealth Public Service have been sent overseas at Commonwealth expense for training or experience in each of the last 5 years. 
In each case what was the (a) type of training, (b) period spent overseas, (c) overseas country in which the training took place and (d) department in which the officer served. 
1 ask the Prime Minister: Have certain oil companies been complaining about the pricing policy for indigenous crude oil? ls Esso-BHP the company gaining most advantage from the Government's policy? Has the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd announced a 52 per cent boost in pre-tax profit for the half year ended 30tb November 1970, with an anticipated profit for the year of $90m? Was the increase in profit due almost entirely to the sale of crude oil? Does this suggest that Esso-BHP has been given too good a deal  on the price of crude oil to the detriment of the Australian motorists and other oil companies? Will the Prime Minister undertake to review immediately the crude oil pricing policy? 

 - Mr Speaker, last night- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
lt is particularly interesting to note that the only 2 Ministers who have spoken in this debate in support of the new Leader of the 
Liberal Party are the new Leader of the Country Party and the new  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. Not one Liberal Minister has spoken. Not one member of the mushroom club who was upgraded to become a Minister when  Mr Gorton  became Leader of the Liberal Party has yet spoken. The only 2 Ministers who have spoken have been from the Country Party. Members of the Country Party are now falling over themselves to get .on side with the new Leader of the Liberal Party because, after all, it was the previous Leader of the Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, who put the millstone around the neck of the new Leader of the Liberal Party after the death of  Mr Harold  Holt. lt was  Sir John  McEwen who said: 'Under no circumstances will 1 serve under  Mr McMahon  as Prime Minister of the country.' Today the only 2 Ministers who have come into this place to support the new Leader of the Liberal Party are the Leader and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. 
We have just listened to an amazing speech by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  who spent a considerable portion of his time talking about the activities of the Gorton Government in the field of social service legislation. Today the new Leader of the Liberal Party started his career as Prime Minister of Australia by offering a blatant bribe to the pensioners of Australia without the knowledge of his Cabinet and without the knowledge of his Minister for Social  Services  (Mr Wentworth).  This new Leader of the Liberal Party is the man who, in the last 3 or 4 days, has been appearing in the mass media and saying that he will introduce Cabinet government in Australia, which had been destroyed by the deposed Prime Minister. 
The announcement by the new Prime Minister was made after consideration was given in August last or even earlier and after pressures had been applied on the deposed Prime Minister to have something done for pensioners. It was the first announcement he made, but in the same speech he claimed that this motion that has been moved by the Opposition - a want of confidence motion in the Government - is not moved against his Government but against the Gorton Government and then he took the opportunity to offer this blatant bribe to pensioners throughout Australia. He ranked third in the Gorton Government. He had every right and opportunity to express his point of view in the Cabinet discussions, if they were held, and we doubt after the coverage by the mass media and after the things that have been said by Ministers who have resigned whether the Gorton Government did hold Cabinet discussions. But if the new Prime Minister tried in Cabinet to get some benefits for the pensioners he failed, and in the face of the deposed Prime Minister and now Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party he comes into the House today and makes the announcement about increases for pensioners. 
I proclaim that the first action of the Prime Minister as the Leader of the McMahon Government shows his lack of courage and his lack of principles. The happenings of the last 14 days have been truly amazing. We have had the spectacle of a major disagreement between the Prime Minister of Australia, a senior Cabinet Minister and the Chief of the General Staff, fought not in the Cabinet room or in the Parliament but in the newspapers of Australia. The culmination of this dispute was the resignation of the senior Cabinet Minister and the deposing of the Prime Minister. Both those things happened outside this Parliament. The ex-Prime Minister was deposed after a revolt or a coup - call it what you like- in the secret confines of the Liberal Party and after being deposed he came into this House and made a short announcement. But before he was deposed we had an unprecedented scene in this Parliament - the scene of a pressman interjecting from the Press Gallery. There was an interjection of 'You liar' addressed to  Mr Gorton,  the Leader of the Liberal Party and the then Prime Minister of Australia and it was uttered with venom and emphasis. It was an interjection that was truly meant. But when pressure was put on the pressman he went to 'water. 
The only. official knowledge that this Parliament has of the whole sordid affair are the statements of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and  Mr Gorton  on- Tuesday, 9th March and a short statement of 83 words made by the deposed Prime Minister on Wednesday, 1 0th March in - which he announced his resignation as Prime Minister of Australia. The ex-Prime Minister did not give this Parliament any information about the identity of his successor or about the advice he intended to give  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral. This Parliament was left in ignorance. Its members had to rely on the mass media, sections of which have been badly discredited in this affair, for the reports on the name of the new leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party and the name of his  deputy.  A more pitiful selection of leader and  deputy  leader of a political party could not be found. The new leader of the Liberal Party was  deputy  to his present  deputy,  and all know of the lack of respect, trust and friendship that existed under the previous arrangement. 
But for some untold reason, now that they have changed positions, Liberal members - the one who interjected is a prime example - and supporters and sections of the mass media expect a miracle to be wrought and years of dislike, mistrust and enmity between  Mr McMahon  and  Mr Gorton  disappear. Only the names have been changed. The characters remain the same, and they are supported by the same unprincipled, weak Ministers and back bench members. This is not good enough for Australia. This is not good enough for my country. 
The policies of the Liberal Party have failed under the leadership of the previous Prime Minister and will continue to fail under the new Prime Minister. I challenge the right of the Liberal Party to have made this change in the Prime Ministership of Australia- The Liberal Party has the right to change its leader - I do not take that away from it - but, as a party of 46 in a House of 125 members and as a part of a coalition government of 66 members, the Liberals do not have the right to transfer a mandate gained by one leader to any other leader after a revolt within the ranks of their party - a revolt carried on the casting vote of the person being overthrown and then only after the supreme cowardice of all members of the Liberal Party had been shown in a secret ballot. The members of the Liberal Party, who make up part of the coalition Government, did not have the courage to stand up in their own Party room and vote out the man they wanted to vote- out. A secret ballot was necessary to do that. Is it any wonder that big business, combines and pressure groups can force these members into supporting policies that are not in the interest of Australia? There was a revolt by 33 members, including several senators - those senators have no electoral responsibility - and members like the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  The ex-Prime Minister doubts whether the honourable member possesses a mind. The ex-Prime Minister is reported in Saturday's 'Sydney Morning Herald' as having said:  1 can't be expected to know what goes on in the mind of  Mr Bate  - if he has one.. 
I cannot allow the change in the Prime Ministership of Australia under such circumstances to go unchallenged. The new leader of the Liberal Party does not possess the confidence of this House, of the Liberal Party or of the people of Australia. Sixteen months ago it was shown in the Liberal Party itself, when he could not beat the deposed Prime Minister in a vote for the leadership of that party. He challenged the Gorton leadership within Party ranks and was defeated. The new leader of the Liberal Party is not acceptable to the Australian people until he has had the courage to face the people in his own right. The Liberal-Country Party Government obtained fewer votes in the 1969 House of Representatives elections and the 1970 Senate elections than did the Australian Labor Party. On a strict party basts it can be said that the Gorton Government did not have the majority support of the Australian people, and the same applies to the McMahon Government. Trie figures for the 1969 House of Representatives elections were as follows: The ALP under the leadership of  Mr Gough  Whitlam gained 2,870,792 votes or 46.95 per cent of the formal votes cast, and for that the Labor Party got 59 seats. The Liberal Party under the leadership of  Mr Gorton  and the  deputy  leadership of  Mr McMahon  gained 2,126,987 votes or 34.79 per cent of the formal votes, and for that .it got 46 seats. The Country Party under the leadership of  Sir John  McEwen got 523,342 votes, 8.56 per cent of the formal votes, cast, and for that it got 20 seats. The total LiberalCountry Party vote was 2.650,329 votes or 43.35 per cent of the formal votes cast. Therefore on a strict party basis the Labor Party was 220,463 votes in front and received a vote of 3.6 per cent better than the combined vote of the Liberal-Country Party, yet we have 7 fewer seats. Similar figures can be given for the Senate elections in 1970, when again the leader of the Liberal Party was  Mr Gorton  and the  deputy  leader was  Mr McMahon.  On a strict party basis the Gorton Government did not possess a mandate, and neither does the new McMahon Government. The first McMahon Government is in office by subterfuge. 
Neither the new Prime Minister nor the new Deputy Prime Minister has led his party to an election. How can it be maintained that this Prime Minister has a mandate from the people of Australia? The Liberal Party relies on the support of 2 barnacle parties in order to govern - on the one hand, the bovine, bucolic Country Party and, on the other hand, the erratic, inconsistent and blackmailing Australian Democratic Labor Party. Any person with the slightest belief in democracy and the rights of the people of Australia to elect their government would not wish to assume the Prime Ministership in the present situation. The challenge of an early election has been issued by my leader on behalf of the Labor Party, and I support that challenge. If Sam, the brother of the new leader of the Liberal Party, can beat him at everything except poker, 1 guarantee that my leader and his supporters can beat him at an election. The Government and its members have disregarded the Parliament during the whole of this sordid affair, but they have no right to disregard the people of Australia. An election must take place or our democratic system will be further weakened. 
When the previous Prime Minister was in office I often had cause to regret that he was the leader of my country. But at least I always felt that the behaviour of the two previous Prime Ministers, the late Harold Holt and  Sir Robert  Menzies at international conferences and in the Parliament itself was above reproach. They practised loyalty to their Party and to their ministerial colleagues. They believed in the solidarity and secrecy of Cabinet. But in 1968 when the ex-Prime Minister assumed that office he immediately set out to destroy the Cabinet and ministerial solidarity and secrecy. He set out to destroy his opponents in the Liberal Party, the independence of the Commonwealth Public Service and even the Westminster system of Parliament. On top of all that he destroyed the credibility of himself, his Ministers and the back bench members of this Parliament. He was not the type of man to be the Prime Minister of Australia. 
But while he was the Prime Minister of Australia his deputy and his very senior colleague was his conqueror, the new Prime Minister. The new Prime Minister cannot disclaim the blame for the errors in policy, the breaking of Cabinet solidarity, the decline in Cabinet government and the many other sins of omission and commission of the Gorton Government. The only changes that can be seen in the personnel of this Government which is in charge of Australia today is the rise of the new Prime Minister and I suppose the rise of the new Minister for Defence. No member of the Liberal Party has been absolved of his responsibility to vote for the motion by the mere change in the leadership of a parliamentary party. Had the practices of the House which had been followed during the reign of the Gorton Government not been broken on this occasion this debate would have taken place last Thursday. It did not take place last Thursday because those practices were broken. If I had the time 1 could give 2 instances under the Gorton Prime Ministership when the suspension of Standing Orders was moved immediately. 
Let me turn to the person the Liberal Party has elected as the Prime Minister of Australia. I emphasise the fact that the Liberal Party has elected the new Prime Minister. The Country Party has been absolutely silent. Its previous leader shouted long and loud when the new Prime Minister looked like winning in 1968 but its members have said nothing in the last few days. Already today the Leader of the Labor Party has spoken about the new Prime Minister's belief that the basic wage was sufficient to keep a man, his wife and 2 or more children. There is also another example that shows the lack of sympathy and compassion o: the new Leader of the Liberal Party. In 1966 he said: 
I then had the pleasure and responsibility of introducing into this House on behalf of the Government, the Bill which inaugurated national service training. 
He does not care whether our children die by malnutrition or by a bullet. 1 support the motion that has been moved by the Opposition. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage,- oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That, without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Association Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the Stales for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the estimated cost of airconditioning the Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport international terminal. 
What was the cost of the art and sculpture work and special feature walls of the terminal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have requests been received from various employees' organisations for the provision of a restaurant for Commonwealth employees at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport International Terminal. 
If so, what consideration has been given to the matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have complaints been received concerning the lack of airconditioning in the Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport international terminal. 
If so, by whom have these complaints been lodged. 
Have conditions In the new terminal justified the complaints. 
What action is contemplated to rectify the situation. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the time lapse between the medical examination of a prospective national serviceman and notification of his acceptance or rejection. 
If there is delay, what are the reasons fur  it. 
Will he ensure that all prospective national servicemen are notified of the result within 48 hours. 
asked the Minister for Cus  toms and Excise, upon notice: 
Has merchants overtime been paid for many years by shipping and airline companies for standby duty of Preventive Officers in his Department. 
Is merchants overtime still in operation. 
If not, by whom is this standby payment now met. 
What are the reasons for any alteration in the system. 
asked the Minister for Cus  toms and Excise, upon notice: 
What is the method of recruiting Preventive Officers in his Department. 
What period of training is given. 
What are the responsibilities of these officers after they commence normal duty. 
Are any further courses of training organised after the initial training. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Was the visit to New Zealand  of  the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the purpose  of  discussing the supply  of  heavy water for the proposed nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay. 
Can he say whether New Zealand has been conducting experiments in . the manufacture of heavy water. 
If so, how long have these experiments been in operation. 
Is it anticipated that the cost of . heavy water from New Zealand will be lower than from other sources.- 
What would be the cost of heavy water for commencing the operation of the station at Jervis Bay if a heavy water reactor were selected. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What success has been achieved in producing enriched uranium in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say why Argentina selected  a  PHW reactor; if not, will he endeavour to obtain the information. 
 I ask the' Minister for Immigration: Are all " migrants who are British subjects given the same opportunity to apply foi and be granted Australian citizenship? If not, what are the reasons for differentiating between British subjects? Can the policy being followed lead to further charges of racial discrimination? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is the generating cost of enriched reactors considerably lower than those of natural uranium reactors. 
Will he supply a table showing the comparative generating costs of (a) enriched uranium and (b) natural uranium reactors. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable, the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned employees of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth that the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act is inadequate inasmuch as it fails to: 
Provide for no loss of wages for an employee on compensation. 
Compensate for all illness or injuries arising during employement. 
Provide for fair and open judgment of compensation claims. 
Remove many other existing anomalies. 
We further submit the amendments already proposed by the Government would do little or nothingto improve the Act. Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will respond to our plea for more enlightened legislation and act to make the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act a most beneficial piece of legislation in this field. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What system of promotion for Preventive Officers is followed in his Department. 
How long has this system been in operation. 
Is he able to say whether there is grave dis satisfaction amongst the staff over some recent promotions. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What is the average length of service of Preventive Officers in his Department. 
How long does it take to become an effective and experienced Preventive Officer. 
Can he say what are the reasons for the resignation from the service of effective and efficient Preventive Officers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon  notice: 
What are the reasons for the non-payment of a Commonwealth medical benefit for the prescription of spectacles. 
Can he say whether some medical benefit funds pay a small benefit for the prescription of spectacles when prescribed by a registered medical practitioner but no benefit when prescribed by a registered optometrist. 
If so, what are the reasons for this differentiation. 
asked the Minister  for  National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say whether New Zealand authorities on nuclear power were of the opinion that the use of natural uranium fuel makes the most economic sense. 
Can he also say if there has been any change of opinion in that country and. if there has, what were the reasons for the change. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the urgent need for Australia to introduce nuclear power bused on technology which is likely to be superseded within a few years. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say how many CANDU reactors arc in commercial operation. 
If so, where are they located, and what is the size of each reactor. 
ls the CANDU reactor fully proved. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say how many SGHW reactors are in commercial operation. 
If so, where are they located and what is" the size of each reactor. 
Is the SGHW reactor fully proved. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Atomic Energy Commission conducted any experiments into the manufacture of heavy water. 
If not, why not. 
If experiments have been made in Australia, is he able to say how the results compare with any experiments conducted in New Zealand. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the (a) Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and (b) People's Republic of China have any nuclear power reactors. 
If so, (a) how many reactors are in operation in each country and (b) what is the type in each case. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he yet say what the estimated cost per kilowatt hour of nuclear generated electricity in Australia will be using (a) natural uranium and (b) enriched uranium. 
If so, can he supply a comparative statement showing these costs in relation to electricity generated by conventional plants in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did the tender documents for the proposed nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay stipulate the use of indigenous natural uranium after 5 years of operation. 
Has there been any change of thought on this matter; if so, what are the reasons for the change. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say whether insurance companies in Australia refuse to cover damage caused by the effects of nuclear accidents. 
If so, what arrangements are to be made for the insurance coverage of property and persons within the danger zone of the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What types of nuclear reactors are regarded as being fully proved. 
Were tenders for any of these included in the final list for the proposed reactor at Jervis Bay. 
If so, what were the types of reactors and the names of the tendering organisations. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will he supply answers to questions Nos 2830 to 2843 prior to his promised statement on the successful tender for the Jervis Bay nuclear power station. 
If not, will he make a detailed and comprehensive statement on the reasons for the selection at the time of his announcement. 
 I move the following amendment: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'a select committee of this House be appointed to inquire into and report on the uses of nuclear power in relation to: 
the projected power needs of the Commonwealth; 
the comparative advantage derived from generating power in this way as against all other sources now being employed; 
the effects of the establishment of a nuclear power station upon the environment; 
administrative procedures and regulations adopted elsewhere to lessen any undesirable effects of the operation of such a station to ensure the utmost protection of members of the public and the national interest; 
the desirability of establishing a nuclear power station at this time pending the outcome of further technological developments taking place elsewhere; and 
any related matter.' 
During a debate last year on the estimates for the Department of National Development the Opposition moved a similar motion to the one I have just moved. At the end of the debate on that motion the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  replied to the comments that had been made. At page 2271 of the Hansard report of 1 5th October 1970 the Minister is reported as having said: 
In adverting to the commencement of the debate on the estimates of my Department a week or so ago, I must refer to the old saying about the dead hand of Labor. We have seen, by the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang, another example of this resistance to progress. I was surprised at the honourable member's approach because 1 know he has a deep interest in this particular subject and his proposal to refer  this matter al this stage to a select committee of the Parliament for consideration could have been done with only one thought in mind, namely* to defer the matter, knowing the time it takes for these matters to be considered, for another 2 to 3 years. 
In the statement that he made this afternoon the Minister informed the House that the decision to build a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay was taken late in 1968. However, by as late as the Estimates debate in 1970 no decision had been taken as to whether the project would be continued. The Opposition highlighted this fact in the debate on 15th October 1970. The amendment moved by the Opposition last year was a genuine attempt by the Opposition to clear up some of the doubts that existed in the minds of not only honourable members on this side of the House but also noted scientists outside the Parliament - men with reputations in the field of atomic science, physics and other related matters. The Opposition moved an amendment in the debate on the Estimates in order to give the Government an opportunity to examine thoroughly the economics of the introduction of nuclear power in Australia, particularly as it had been estimated by  Sir Philip  Baxter, the  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission, that by the year 2000 something like $5,000m would have been spent on nuclear power stations throughout Australia. Similar estimates have been made. They are noted in Hansard and have been printed in papers. Despite this fact there are grave doubts about the economics of having nuclear power stations in Australia at the present time. In the statement that he made today the Minister suggested that the deferment was on economic grounds. Tn a statement on 1st June 1971 he said: 
The tenders received involved higher prices than had been anticipated and therefore a further analysis is being made of the economic aspects of the project 
In a statement on 9th June 1971 he said: 
The fina] figure was higher than that expected in 1969. This result viewed in the light of the current financial circumstances of Australia, made the Government feel it should not proceed with the project immediately. 
I cannot believe the reason which has been given by the Minister on 3 occasions. If a decision had been taken to proceed with the construction of the Jervis Bay nuclear power station earlier this year and the estimated expenditure had been included in this year's Budget, I have been reliably informed that the amount required by the Atomic Energy Commission would have been in the vicinity of $6m. So there is no reason at all for the Minister to blame the current economic circumstances. He and his advisers should have informed the House of exactly why the construction of a power station at Jervis Bay has been deferred. I have asked a number of questions of the Minister on this matter but I have not been able to get a satisfactory reply to them. He hedges a lot of his statements around so that he has a shilling each way. One cannot get anything definite from him. Today the Minister said: lt advised- 
He was referring to the Atomic Energy Commission - that the time was approaching when nuclear power would be competitive with other means of power generation in some areas of Australia. 
The Minister referred then to the doubling every 8 years of the power demand in Australia and said: 
This growth means that quite large units will he required in New  South  Wales and Victoria in the 1980s, lt is in the large unit sizes that nuclear power is likely to first become competitive with fossil-fuelled power stations. 
The Minister did mention his speech of 28th August last year. In that speech he said that a station of about 500 megawatts was envisaged because the cost of electricity from a nuclear power station decreases sharply as the size increases. On that occasion he went on to say: 
For the economical size of 500 to 600 megawatts. New South Wales has the only network meeting these conditions. 
His statement today talks about quite large stations being competitive with fossilfuelled power stations. In August 1970 the economical size was supposed to be 500 to 600 megawatts. In question No. 2840, a copy of the answer to which I received about 24th June and which appears in yesterday's Hansard, I asked the Minister about the generating cost of electricity in Australia using natural uranium and enriched uranium and about supplying a comparative statement showing these costs in relation to electricity generated by conventional plants in Australia. In the final sentence of his answer to that question the Minister said: 
I would add, however, that under current conditions in Australia I do not believe that nuclear power stations are competitive with conventional ones. 
It is quite obvious that the Parliament is not being told the truth of this matter. I have a host of Press cuttings about the proposed power station at Jervis Bay. If the leaks from the Cabinet are as numerous as the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  has suggested they are then it would appear that there have been leaks about the deferment of the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay because the estimated price of the successful tender - the one that was recommended to the Cabinet - has been given and the name of the tenderer has been given. The make of the atomic power reactor that was to be selected has also appeared in the newspapers. The atomic reactor that has been suggested as having been selected is the British SGHWR type reactor, 2 of which are operating in the world at the moment, one of 100 megawatts and the other of 250 megawatts. There is a considerable number of pressurised water reactors and boiling water reactors operating throughout the world. There are 119 units of the PWR reactor and 69 BWR power units operating in the world. But only 2 SGHWR power reactors are operating throughout the world. I understand from the official sources of the papers, directly from Cabinet, that the SGHWR reactor is the one that has been recommended by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
The Opposition is far from satisfied that the information surrounding this project has been given truthfully to this Parliament and it is for this reason that I have moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition. In closing, I remind honourable members that a very similar amendment was moved during the debate on the Estimates last year. The decision was taken in 1968 and the matter was deferred in June 1971. So, it can be said that the Government has been deciding this matter for  2i  years. It still does not know the answers. It is not convinced now that the reactor which has been recommended is economic or comparable with fossil fuel stations. But the Government was convinced a couple of years ago that it was economic. The Government is not certain whether the project will proceed and it has used the fictitious excuse that the current economic climate has caused the deferment of the construction of the proposed power reactor at Jervis Bay. 
I and the Opposition want a select committee of this Parliament to be appointed in order that the questions that have been posed in the amendment that 1 have moved may be examined thoroughly and in order that all the experts from outside the Parliament and outside the Australian Atomic Energy Commission will have an opportunity of voicing officially their opposition to the proposal and of putting information before the members of the select committee. The appointment of a select committee would enable members of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to give the information that this Parliament should have at its disposal before making a decision. The decision has been deferred supposedly for 12 months only but 1 think that that 12 months might become a lot longer. So, in that 12 months of deferment, let us appoint a select committee, let it begin operating and let us get all the information possible so that before the taxpayers of Australia are committed to an expenditure of $5,000m by the year 2,000 not only the Government but also all members of this Parliament will know the true story of nuclear power generation in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Minister for External Territories drawn his attention to a motion adopted by the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea over 2 months ago requesting the Australian Government to send a Commonwealth parliamentary committee to Papua on a fact finding tour or has any request been made direct to him by the Parliament of Papua New Guinea for such a visit? If so, will he, in view of the rapidly increasing tensions and rising pressures for self government and independence in Papua New Guinea, make an immediate and favourable decision on the request and so enable members of this Parliament to be better informed on the aspirations of the people of Papua New Guinea? 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of (i) age and (ii) invalid pensioners who did not receive the last rise in pension. 
The statement which has just been made by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is completely unacceptable to the Opposition and should be completely unacceptable to this Parliament. It marks a material change in the Government's policy in the oil industry. The policy of the exPrime Minister, given on 10th October 1968 without consultation with his Cabinet and without consultation with his confreres in the Government was, in the words cf the Minister, a policy which sought that indigenous crude oil would be refined and used in Australia. 
The decisions that have just been announced by the Minister leave grave doubts in my mind and in the minds of members of the Opposition as to the manner and reasons for the decisions having been taken. We are not satisfied at ail that the Minister has given us all the information at his disposal. I know for certain that oil companies have been pressing this Government from as long ago as 18 months for a similar decision to the one that has just been announced. Those companies were having difficulties then in using the Australian indigenous crude oil and they told the Government so. No action was taken by the Government. 
As short a time ago as 28th June this year the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who was then the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry, made a statement which read: 
He announced that he had decided not to refer the question of emergency tariff protection on petroleum products to the Special Advisory Authority. 
It continued: 
In addition to the detailed data presented by Ampol Ltd' said  Mr Nixon,  'confidential information was also obtained from importers and members of the petroleum industry. It was concluded that in the present circumstances a reference to the Special Advisory Authority would not be justified.' 
Yet, on 2nd September, a matter of 4 days ago, the Minister who has just spoken released a Press statement headed 'Dumping Information'. The statement reads: 
A section of the Australian petroleum refining industry recently made application for antidumping action against imports of petrol. 
Following inquiries, prima facie evidence of dumping has been established and dumping cash securities will be taken in respect of petrol exported to Australia on and after 31 August 1971 where export prices f.o.b. are less than tentative normal values. 
Today we are told again by the Minister in his statement that as well as anti-dumping action the Government has granted permission for up to 20 per cent of the allocation of indigenous crude oil to the various companies to be exported and a greater percentage will be allowed under exceptional circumstances. Five companies have indigenous crude oil. However, those companies have not been named and they remain anonymous. 
Two marketers have also sought permission to export the whole of their allocation of indigenous crude but. they have been refused. The marketers have been having great difficulty in getting their quota refined. The Minister for Customs and Excise, who is at the table, shook his head when I made the statement that marketers have bee a refused to export crude. 
No it has not. It is going to the arbiter. The Minister said in his statement: 
Recently two marketers of petrol, who do not have refinery facilities in Australia, sought permission of the Government to export the whole of their allocation of indigenous crude oil. They were again informed of the Government's policy, as outlined above, and were asked to negotiate with local refineries to have their allocation of indigenous crude oil refined in Australia. 
That is a refusal,  Mr Minister.  The Minister is giving them no protection at all. He is referring them to an arbiter. I will come to this later. The marketers are having great difficulty in getting their quota refined. This is the reason why the Minister has referred this matter to an independent arbiter. 
We have seen another Gorton policy in tatters. I want you,  Mr Speaker,  to note carefully the timing of the decisions. In March this year the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was deposed as Leader of the Liberal Party and consequently deposed as Prime Minister of Australia. In June a request by Ampol for emergency tariff protection on petroleum imports was rejected by the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry. On 2nd September the Minister at the table announced that anti-dumping action would be taken. On 7th September we have an announcement in the House which almostcompletely changes the previous policy. The Opposition wants to know what pressures have been applied to the Government by the oil industry to cause this change so shortly after the deposing of the right honourable member for Higgins, the founder of the crude oil policy in Australia. What promises have been made to the Government of electoral support by the oil companies to obtain this change? There is a smell about the whole matter. This Parliament has not been given the facts. 
A number of questions remain to be answered and some of those questions are: Which are the 5 companies allowed to export crude oil? Who are the marketers - who cannot obtain refining facilities? What information was placed before the Government between June and September to obtain anti-dumping action? And a very important question: What is the cost of production of petrol by refineries in Australia? What is the cost of the petrol imported by marketers? Will the evidence placed before the independent arbitrator,  Sir Leslie  Melville, be made public? How long has the Government given him to tender his advice on this matter? What protection is to be given to the marketers while the inquiry is taking place? How is it that refiners can now claim to be experiencing - I use the words of the Minister and he said they came directly from the Act - not unsubstantial injury when those same oil companies and refiners can afford to indulge in  a  price war on petrol throughout Australia against  a  very few marketers? How is it that oil companies and refineries can spend millions of dollars  a  year in advertising? 
I have another very important question: How many oil companies are Australian owned or substantially Australian owned? The Minister made mention of an Australian industry. The Opposition and I am certain the public would like to know just how much equity Australia has in the major oil companies throughout Australia. The annua] profits of oil companies and refineries are fairly well hidden, but each year most of them announce a substantial profit. Why did not the Minister put some of those facts before the Parliament when he made the announcement of the changing of the Government's oil policy? All the questions I have posed, and many more, should be answered and I am suggesting that the only way - the only proper way - for these questions to be answered is for the Government to set up a royal commission into the oil industry in Australia. T am reinforced in that suggestion by these words of the Minister this afternoon: 
The Government is conscious of the complex nature of this industry with its many component parts and conflicting interests. 
Earlier in his speech he announced the setting up of the independent arbitrator to decide a battle between the marketers, the people who are bringing in low priced petrol and giving it to motorists at 4c or Se  a  gallon lower than the major oil companies have been giving it to them - an independent arbitrator to see whether they can get a little bit of equity and justice from the major refining interests in Australia. These things should be answered and I am surprised that a Minister for whom I have  a  great deal of respect should come into the Parliament with a statement like this - a major statement - and give so little information to the Parliament on the reasons for this major alteration in Government policy. 
The Government has laid down a couple of stipulations on what the refiners will have to do before they are given permission to export some of their crude oil allocation. He did not publish, and I do not think they have published information on the firm plans to install extra refinery capacity to take up the Australian crude quota. If they are willing to disclose the terms-r-and this is one of the conditions the Government lays down - upon which such exports of crude will be made, surely the Parliament is entitled to know how much petroleum in Australia costs at the moment. I am completely dissatisfied wi the statement and I am completely dissatisfied with the policy of the Government on Australian crude and the oil industry generally. 
I will admit that there are major problems in this industry but such important decisions as this one should not be made behind closed doors. The Parliament is entitled to know more about it than it has been given and even if the matter goes to the Tariff Board and a final decision is made very little information will appear in the report of the Tariff Board and the Parliament again, and I would think the Cabinet again, will be making a decision in the dark. This industry, in the Minister's own words, by using Australian crude in the current year has saved approximately $230m in foreign exchange payments. It is too important an industry for the ex-Prime Minister to be sitting down negotiating crude oil pricing policies or for this Minister or for any other Minister to sit down behind closed doors with representatives of the major oil companies before them pushing them hither and thither, using every pressure they can so they can get a decision which will put more profits into the oil companies at the expense of the 3 million or 4 million motorists in Australia. I come back to the point: I make a request that this Government should set up a royal commission into the oil industry in Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
asked the PostmasterGen eral, upon notice: 
When will the decision on the date of the introduction of colour television into Australia be announced. 
Is he able to say in what countries viewers enjoy the undoubted advantages of colour television. 
I begin my speech by quoting the following words: 
The Federal Government is betraying National Servicemen returning from Vietnam. When they are discharged the Government merely sloughs them off, like a snake sheds its skin. 
That is a strong statement and it leaves no doubt about the grave dissatisfaction with the Government's treatment of our newest returned servicemen; and if there is dissatisfaction with the treatment of our newest returned servicemen there is also similar dissatisfaction with the treatment of our ex-servicemen of the 1914-18 War, the 1939-45 War and the Korean War. If a member of the Australian Labor Party said these words that I have just quoted he would be charged by every member of the Liberal Party and of the Australian Country Party with exaggeration. So the identity of the author becomes most important. That statement was made by  Mr Colin  J. Hines, the present  President  of the New South Wales Branch of the Returned Services League of Australia. I quoted from an article in 'Reveille', the official organ of the New South Wales Branch of the Returned Services League. That is not the only statement that  Mr Hines  made and I might say that when he made this statement he was the Acting  President  of the New South Wales Branch of the RSL. Recently he was appointed  President  of the New South Wales Branch of the RSL, so the statements that he made while he was Acting  President  received the official imprimatur of the New South Wales State Congress.  Mr Hines  goes on to say in this article under the heading 'Repatriation Benefits': 
The Government must take another look at the repatriation benefits pension offered to servicemen returning from Vietnam. 
During World Wars I and II every recruit was covered for repatriation benefits from the day of enlistment to the day of discharge. 
National servicemen receive no benefit while they are in Australia and they can only claim repatriation benefits for incapacities that happen from the day they left Australia to the day they returned. 
I interpolate here: Provided that they are in a zone that has been declared.  Mr Hines  continued: 
The entire pensions scale for returned national servicemen must be reviewed. 
Today a boy can be totally and permanently incapacitated at the age of 22 and he will receive only $39 a week. To receive this he must not work. How can we expect such a person to live? 
Further, when people know about this, how can we expect them to encourage their sons in future years to go into service for their country? 
The League believes the TPI rate should be not less than the Commonwealth minimum wage, which at the moment is $47.10 a week. 
At present the returned servicemen on 100 per cent rate pension, that is, those, who are permanently incapacitated but still able to work, can only receive $12 a week. We believe this figure should be half the Commonwealth minimum wage, $23.55 a week. 
Similarly, war widows today only receive $16 a week. Again we think it should be half the Commonwealth minimum wage. 
Those words must be taken as the considered view of the New South Wales Branch of the RSL. They were uttered by the Acting  President,  who is now the  President,  at a symposium held in Dubbo earlier this year. The Opposition believes that the grounds for dissatisfaction expressed by  Mr Hines  are legitimate. That is the reason for the amendment which was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  earlier this afternoon. That amendment reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill the House condemns the Government because - 
it has failed to restore the relative values of repatriation pensions, and 
the Bill does not provide for the appointment of a select committee to review the Repatriation Act, its operation and all of its provisions, and to make appropriate recommendations to the Government. 
All members of the Australian Labor Party support this amendment with the utmost sincerity. We have moved an amendment in those terms on previous occasions and we have moved other amendments in this place during repatriation debates in the time that I have been here, each time trying to get better justice for the exservicemen and women of Australia than the Government is prepared to give them. Each year the National Executive of the 
RSL presents its war compensation plan to the Ex-servicemen's Committee of the Federal Cabinet. It goes to the highest body in this Parliament, to specially selected members of the Cabinet, men who are exservicemen themselves and who should have some understanding of the rigours of war. These were fairly well expressed by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who preceded me in this debate. He spoke of the tribulations of war and of the need to understand those tribulations and the pressures that are on servicemen when they are in conflict. 
Not only the National Executive of the RSL but also the Commonwealth Council of the TPI Association present a compensation plan to the Government. This year both organisations suggested that the special or TPI rate of pension should be increased from $39 to $46.40, which is the present average minimum wage throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. In support of the claim both organisations presented figures to show the decline and erosion in value of the TPI pension. Let me give a few examples. In 1920, when the basic wage was 3.1 ls, the TPI pension was 4 a week, or 9s. above the basic wage in those days. In 1932 it was 18s. 4d. above the basic wage in those days. In 1943 it came down to 2s. under the basic wage at that time. In 1955 it had declined to 51s. under the basic wage in those days. On 1st October 1970 the minimum wage throughout the Commonwealth was $46.40 and the TPI pension was $38. In other words, it was $8.40 below the minimum wage. 
In April ot this year there was a specially announced $1 increase to TPI pensioners. The announcement came in the first speech that our present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made in this House after he had deposed the previous Prime Minister. The rate of TPI pension came down then to $7.40 under the minimum wage and, with the increase that we are now discussing of $3.50, the TPI pension will be brought up to $42.50, which is $3.90 below the minimum wage. From 1943 to 1970 there has been an continuing decline in the relativity of the TPI pension with the minimum or basic wage. The record decline occurred in 1970. Even with 2 increases in this year the TPI rate is still $3.90 below the minimum wage. 
I submit that if it was considered that totally and permanently incapacitated soldiers were worth 9s above the minimum or basic wage in 1920 the same criteria should apply today. The payments that are made to our totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen are to compensate them for their war injuries and their lack of earning capacity.  To  obtain the totally and permanently incapacitated pension rate, a person must not work at all. These men are entitled to maintain their standard of living and are justified in requesting a pension equal to the average minimum wage. 
Comparisons with other sections of the community illustrate the unjust treatment meted out to totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen. To placate the honourable member for Mitchell I give the basis of the comparisons. In 1950, the basic or minimum wage was $13.80 a week. The present minimum wage is $46.40 a week. That is an increase of 236 per cent. The average weekly earnings of an employed male in 1950 were $21 a week. Today the figure is $95 a week, an increase of 480 per cent. The private soldier in Group 1 in 1950 was paid $1.80 a. day. He is now paid $5.96 a day. With the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Financial Terms and Conditions of Service Employment, known as the Kerr Committee, the daily payment will be greater. Even on $5.96 a day, this private soldier enjoys an increase of 231 per cent over the amount he was paid in 1950. A base grade clerk, aged 21, in the Commonwtalth Public Service, in 1950 received an annual salary of $948. He now receives an annual salary of $3,466. This is an increase of 265 per cent. 
In 1950, the special rate pensioner received $14 a week. With the proposed increase, he will receive $42.50 a week, or an increase of 204 per cent. So this class of pensioner is to receive an increase well below the increases received by the categories of people I have mentioned. If totally and permanently incapacitated exservicemen were able to earn the average wage only, their income would increase by over 100 per cent. The claim by the association representing totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen, supported by the Returned Services League of 
Australia, should have been granted by this Government. The figures that I have quoted clearly indicate that the Government has neglected these men who are suffering and have suffered from the war injuries that they received. 
In its compensation plan, the RSL also suggested a general review of all war pensions. I congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the Government on giving extra consideration to war widows and their children or to the orphaned children of ex-servicemen. No increase has been granted to any category of war pensioner other than those who are more seriously incapacitated. In Australia there are approximately 195,000 exservicemen on rates of pension between 10 per cent and 100 per cent. These 195,000 incapacitated ex-servicemen have been ignored completely. 
Since 1950, the rate of the 100 per cent war pension has been increased by 157 per cent only. The 70 per cent rate war pension since 1950 has been increased by 71 per cent only. No increase at all has been granted for a number of years to exservicemen in receipt of war pensions ranging from 10 per cent to 70 per cent. I believe that the Government has decided to freeze war pensions paid at rates between 10 per cent and 70 per cent. If this is the case, the Government and the Minister should be honest enough to announce this decision as a policy. It has not been done so far. I do not think that any government has the right to mislead its ex-servicemen into believing that at budget time they stand some chance of getting an increase in their pensions. 
I notice that my time is fast running out and I merely want to mention that in this debate today on repatriation we will hear from a Country Party Minister. I understand that there will be only one other  speaker  from the Government side to support the Minister and that he will be a member of the Liberal Party, as was the previous  speaker  on the Government side. Of those 2 members of the Liberal Party, the first to speak was the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who is an exserviceman of the First World War and, I think, of the Second World War. He was a member of the Australian Flying Corps in the First World War. The other member of the Liberal Party who is listed to speak is a man whose endorsement as a Liberal candidate has been taken from him by the Liberal Party organisation. In this assertion I can rely only on the official list of speakers in this debate that I have seen. The point that I, come to is that there are a number of ex-servicemen sitting on the Country Party benches. The Minister is a member of the Country Party and apart from the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  - even if he had not intended to speak I guarantee that he will now - not one member of the Country Party is prepared to uphold the policy of this Government on repatriation. 
I have spoken to the Minister about these matters and if I have sounded heated it is because I believe that the exservicemen and women of Australia deserve better treatment than they have received from this Government. To prove not only my sincerity but that of all members of the Labor Party, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the repatriation platform of the Australian Labor Party as approved by the 29th Commonwealth Conference. 
Because I have irked him the honourable member for Mallee is prepared to show his spite and not want it incorporated in Hansard. I conclude by saying that I want all ex-servicemen and women to see the type of person that is demonstrating- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Few, if any, sections of the community have welcomed this Budget. Employer organisations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, pensioner organisations, health organisations and individuals all have voiced strong criticism. Some newspaper headings which have appeared since the Budget was announced described the Budget as: 'Overkill  -  71 style': 'The Budget that Missed the Point'; A Political Non-event - This Year'; 'An Anti-Inflationary Budget - What a Laugh'; A Mini Budget Later to Correct Government's Economic Overkill'. The 1971 August issue of the official journal of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia heads its comments with 'Excessive Restraint on Private Sector Demand'. The Associated Chambers of Commerce certainly could not be regarded as a supporter of the Australian Labor Party but in this journal its states: 
There will be widespread concern in business at the prospect of a severe credit squeeze later in the financial year due to the excessively large Budget domestic surplus combined with the maintenance of restrictive monetary policies foreshadowed by the Treasurer. Under such conditions, the impact of monetary restraints will fall hardest on the small and medium sized businesses which do not have the capacity to borrow overseas. 
It further states: 
In the present economic climate and in looking at the immediate prospects ahead, the Budget will be judged as unnecessarily severe and its strategy wrongly orientated. 
For those reasons, amongst many more, the Opposition has moved an amendment to this tragic Budget. All honourable members on this side of the House are completely dissatisfied with the approach of the Government to our national problems. The strategy of this Budget will put undue strains on the economy. Already we have predictions of large scale unemployment and the figures are beginning to show that those predictions are correct. The Budget will cause an increase in costs and further pressures for wage and salary adjustments. Over 40 per cent of additional taxes will be gained in customs and excise duties and this will have a direct impact on the costs of goods to the community. Postal charges will have the same effect. All of the things I have mentioned will create severe pressures on commerce and industry. There will be economies in business expenses and in the enterprises generally. Staff will be dismissed and prices will rise. The ordinary people - the workers of Australia - will suffer by unemployment and a decline in their standard of living. The people on fixed incomes and the people who will be unemployed will suffer most. 
I now turn to unemployment. The figures for unemployment and unfilled vacancies at the end of August show a disturbing trend whether expressed in absolute or seasonal terms. At present unemployment is greater than it was 12 months ago and the number of unfilled vacancies is fewer. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in a recent statement said: 
At the end of August there were 61,848 unemployed registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. ... A year earlier there were 47,257. . . . Unfilled vacancies at the end of August totalled 34,673 compared with 42,538 at the end of August 1970. 
This trend has been evident at least since the previous Budget was introduced. The tragedy is that the Government refuses to acknowledge this fact. It clings blindly to the prejudice that all that is wrong with the economy is the greed of the wage earner. Reality shows, however, that all the wage earner has been able to do is to hold his position and to gain a very small amount of increased productivity that our stagnant economy has achieved. The Government tries to show that because of the total unemployment decline from July to August conditions are on the improve. This is a travesty of the situation. In the same statement the Minister for Labour and National Service said: 
The decrease in the number of registered unemployed -  this is from July to August -  was 2,455 or 4 per cent which compares with an average decrease of 5,000 or 10 per cent during. August in the last 3 years. 
Total unemployment should now be declining in the expectation of Christmas trading, but it is not. Job vacancies are not rising as they should be. Figures show that on aggregate there has been more unemployment in non-metropolitan areas than in metropolitan areas in the last few years but in the past few months the increase has been in the metropolitan areas. Conditions in rural areas can be blamed for unemployment in non-metropolitan areas and a decline in business activity and confidence must be blamed for the increase in metropolitan areas. Throughout Australia nearly two-thirds of all male unemployed - 27,000 out of 41,000- are in the semiskilled or unskilled manual category. This points to a definite danger. I believe it is time the Minister for Labour and National Service had a look at the figures and placed the real facts before the Parliament. 
In his first speech as Prime Minister of Australia and leader of the Liberal Party of Australia the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  boasted of a reduction in income tax by the previous Gorton Government. Five months later, in August of this year, not only did income tax rise by  2i  per cent but also company tax. Increases have been placed on cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, petrol, distillate and aviation fuel. For the second time in 12 months postal and telegraph charges have been increased and the charges under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme have been increased by 100 per cent. They rose from SOc to $1 a prescription. In making these increases the Government has given absolutely no consideration to the person who is chronically ill and who may regularly need 2 or 3 prescriptions. Neither has the 
Government given any consideration to the family man with a chronically ill child. Common justice demanded that special cases should have been given some concession. I suggest that a sliding scale in the payments for pharmaceutical prescriptions should have been introduced. An appropriate scale could be $1 for one prescription; $1.50 for 2 prescriptions; and $1.75 for 3 prescriptions if those prescriptions were produced to the chemist at the same time, lt would cost the Government very little to implement such a scale and it might provide some relief to people with above average chemist expenses. 
The costs of hospital and medical funds are now almost beyond the reach of the average wage earner. Public ward coverage for a family will cost 82c a week or $42.72 a year; intermediate ward coverage will cost $1.28 a week or $67.72 a year; and private ward coverage will cost $1.52 a week or $79.20 a year. It must be remembered that to this expense must be added the cost of a medical benefits coverage - 80c a week or $41,60 a year. So the hospital coverage for an intermediate war, plus the medical benefits coverage will cost $2.08 a week or $109.32 a year. In many instances that amount must come out of the wages of people who are earning less than the minimum average weekly wage. Every pharmaceutical prescription on the free list will now cost $1 instead of 50c. Earlier this afternoon the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  gave some interesting facts on the price of drugs to the Commonwealth. In many instances the $1 chargs will more than recoup that cost of the drug that will be supplied by the chemist. This is a deplorable situation. We are dealing with the sick of our community and the families of our community and a better scheme for public health in Australia must be introduced. 
I turn now to the subject of education. I appreciate that both sections of our dual education system are in urgent need of funds, classrooms, schools, teachers and teaching equipment. Several of my colleagues already have mentioned the needs of the Slate education systems throughout Australia and I am in full support of the arguments that they have advanced and of the efforts that they are making to get an emergency grant made by the Commonwealth to the State education systems. I should like to devote my time to the question of the extra assistance that is needed by Catholic schools in city and country areas. These schools are catering for children of parents who are not amongst the affluent members of our society. The type of school that I have in mind is  primary school in my electorate. Secondary schools are also in a similar position but I shall quote only the one case. In this school, enrolments have increased from 483 pupils in 1969 to 607 at present. There are .15 classes but there are only 12 classrooms. More than 100 migrant children are attending special classes in education and to provide for these children there are  1  1 lay teachers as well as religious teachers. That parish has had to obtain from the bank $96,000 in order to provide the 3 extra classrooms that are required urgently. The system of per capita payment to independent schools was announced in the 1969-70 Budget. In August 1969 the then Minister for Education and Science sa'd:  lt is our policy to seek to work out ways of assisting independent schools so that, relying on their own efforts and supported by governments, they will be able in the future to provide places for that proportion of the school population which in the past has sought education in independent schools. It is also important that the independent school system be able to develop in the future, not only in quantity but also in quality, more or less in line with the development of government schools. 
I should like to remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the Parliament generally that that statement was made only 2 months before the 1969 Federal elections. Since that election, no extra assistance has been granted to independent schools throughout Australia. The 1970-71 Budget has been and gone and the 1971-72 Budget has recently been presented and the rates of $35 per annum for each primary school pupil and $50 per annum for each secondary school pupil which were introduced in 1969 still remain the order of the day. Noone can argue that these rates have not been drastically reduced in value since they were first introduced in January 1970. Despite the promises of this Government, it has done nothing in the 1971-72 Budget to alleviate the problems of the Catholic schools throughout Australia. There are approximately 1,781 of these schools in Australia. Many of them are in a similar position to the one that I described which is in my electorate. 
I ask: What would happen to the education system in Australia if only a quarter of these 1,781 schools were to be closed at the beginning of the 1972 school year? It is no wonder that the Catholic bishops of Australia issued a statement after a conference in Sydney in August this year. I "shall quote the statement in its entirety because it is a statement which has been made after due consideration by leaders of the Catholic Church in Australia. I am certain that it has been made as a warning not only to the Commonwealth Government but also to the governments of the Australian States. The education system must collapse if a proportion of the Catholic schools in Australia closed their doors after giving due notice to the States that such would be the case. The statement reads: 
The bishops assembled in conference view with grave concern the Federal Budget's failure to make provision for increased subsidies for independent schools. The well known spiralling costs of education are due largely to increases in teachers' salaries which have come into operation in the past 12 months. As a consequence the healthy impact of Federal per capita grants operative from 1st January 1970, has been offset in very great measure. 
In view of the Federal Government's proclaimed objective to keep the independent schools flourishing, it might have been expected that the very steep increases in costs incurred during 1970 and 1971 would have been matched by increased subsidies. 
The Federal Government has before it the results of the nation-wide survey of educational needs, 1971-1974. Conservative estimates as to the needs of both government and independent schools over this 5 year period cannot but cause grave anxiety to all Australians. Certainly there is an urgent need for long range financial planning by both Commonwealth and states. Long range planning surely must include some provision for growth in subsidies to match inevitable growth in costs, apart from the growing needs due to increasing population and educational requirements. 
The bishops are deeply concerned at the increasing financial burdens falling upon parents, many of whom, for conscientious reasons wish to enrol their children in independent schools. 
The Commonwealth's increasing involvement in the whole educational field is well appreciated as well as the Government's efforts to bring relief in certain areas of the community's needs. 
Likewise, it must be recognised that serious problems confront the Government by reason of a somewhat precarious national economy. 
However, it surely is valid economics to provide increased subsidies in relation to increased costs in favour of those citizens whose voluntary contribution to the nation's welfare provides education for 22 per cent of Australian youth. Failure of this large scale voluntary effort in whole or in part could only result in vast increases in public expenditure for which the taxpayers will be called upon to foot the bill. 
I suggest that that is a temperate statement and it is a statement that has been made after due consideration. I think it is one that deserves the due consideration of this Government. I have great pleasure in supporting the amendment that was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to this tragic Budget. (Quorum formed.) 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did he inform me in answer to question No. 2835 that only one SGHW power reactor of 100 MW is in operation. 
If so, on what basis of operating experience as a power reactor, does he have reasonable confidence in the safety, reliability and performance of the SGHW reactor. 
Is it a fact that a sufficient number of light water power reactors have been operating long enough to undergo adequate development in the light of operating experience and could be regarded asproven. 
If the position is as stated, am I entitled to consider that part of his answer to my question No. 2843 may be misleading. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the current requirement on commercial . television stations for the televising of programmes of Australian origin. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say - 
how many: 
PWR, (ii) BWR Light Water and (iii) SGHWR Heavy Water Power reac tors are (A) in operation, (B) under construction and (C) on order as at 30th June 1971 and 
what is the total generating capacity of each type of reactor. 
asked the Minister for Externa] Territories, upon notice: 
Is the training of primary school teachers in the Territory of Papua New Guinea considered adequate? 
Is any additional training available to primary teachers after appointment: if not, why not? 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many students are enrolled in : 
primary, 
secondary, and 
technical classes in 
Mission and 
Government schools in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many children in the Territory of Papua New Guinea are unable to obtain: 
primary, and 
secondary school education. 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the present shortage of 
primary, 
secondary, and 
technical school teachers in 
Mission and 
Government schools in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: Does the action of the Tariff Board in enlisting academics from Monash University to work on Tariff Board inquiries amount to a deplorable abandonment of the long-standing tradition that confidential evidence given to the Board is not divulged to other persons, even to the Minister and the Government? Will he provide the names of the persons outside of the Tariff Board and its permanent staff who have had access to industry's confidential information? Is the revelation of this practice likely to shatter the trust which Australian industry, until now, has placed in the integrity of the Tariff Board? Will he issue urgent instructions that the practice must cease? What additional action can he take to restore that trust and to ensure that Australian industry will continue to give to the Tariff Board complete details of confidential financial, planning and operational information, as it has done in the past? 
On Wednesday of last week the Minister for 
Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  tabled the annual report of the Tariff Board for 1970-71. In this report 3 members of the Board wrote dissenting opinions on the practice introduced by the  Chairman  of the Board of using, as temporary staff for post-hearing analysis, academics from Monash University. The Minister, when he tabled that report, made no comment about it. On Thursday, 30th September, I asked the Minister a question about the practice that had been introduced by the Tariff Board. He told me and the House that he was seeking legal advice from the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood).  In his answer to me, the Minister said: 
Yesterday I tabled the annual report of the Tariff Board. It contained a dissenting opinion on the practices and procedures concerning some of the activities of the Tariff Board. Those matters would relate very much to the question that had been asked of me. This matter has been referred to the Attorney-General's Department for legal opinion, and until 1 have that legal opinion I would reserve any comment. 
The Minister knew, when he tabled that report, that 3 members of the Tariff Board had put in a dissenting report. He made no comment on that fact to the Parliament. He passed my question off, knowing exactly from where it came, by saying that he had referred the matter for legal opinion to the Attorney-General. I ask him now whether the advice from the Attorney-General has been received? If not, why has it not been received? When will the Minister be in a position to release that advice to this Parliament? At the same time, I ask the Minister to answer fully the question that I asked him on Thursday last. I knew nothing about what was in the Tariff Board's report until he tabled it. I looked at it. I asked my question the next day. I asked a series of questions. The Minister pushed me off by saying that he had sought legal advice. On the subject of the Tariff Board, I now ask the Minister to find out what is the real state of affairs behind the reports that we in this Parliament receive these days from the Tariff Board. Most of the reports recommend severe cuts in protection for the Australian industry. In the main the Government is accepting these recommendations without knowing the reasons why the recommendations are made? The reports do not justify the recommendations. 
Industry has grown accustomed to giving the Tariff Board the fullest measure of confidential information about its business relating to costs, financial operations, future plans and marketing arrangements. Industry has been providing the Board with this information which otherwise industry guards most carefully. So carefully does industry guard this information that anyone in industry who tries to obtain it from any other competitor in industry is regarded as practising industrial espionage. For SO years, industry has given this information to the Tariff Board to assist the Board to do the best possible job for Australia and Australia's workers. Over 50 years a trust has grown that the information from industry will go no further than the Tariff Board and those members of the Board who necessarily must have access to it. 1 recall quite vividly the former Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, saying on many occasions, when lauding the Australian Tariff Board system, that confidential information given to the Board is not divulged to any person outside the Board, whether the Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet or anyone else. As late as February last, the present Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
The Tariff Board has always taken great care and will continue to do so in the future to ensure that confidential information it receives does not pass to outside bodies. 
It looks to me as though the Minister has been hoodwinked. Australian industry now finds that its confidential information has been handed over to people outside the Tariff Board. The shattering realisation is that the trust of 50 years has been broken and that confidential information from industry has been passed from the Tariff Board to people at Monash University. 
Industry has the impression that any matter before the Board is dealt with by the members of the Board who conduct that inquiry. Industry naturally assumes that the great deal of evidence, including confidential evidence, given to the members of the Board will later be studied, sifted and analysed by those same men with the assistance of the staff of the Board. Industry would believe that at the end of the line the members of the Board reach conclusions, formulate recommendations and present a report which is the product of their own work. But that does not seem to be the case. The picture that I get is that, after a public hearing, the members of the Board concerned go about their other activities, their other business, hear other inquiries, inspect factories and, in due course, they then consider the draft reports and recommendations that finally reach them and that have been prepared by the  Chairman  and the staff of the Board. As 1 understand it, these Board members know little or nothing about what has happened in connection with an inquiry between the close of the hearing and the submission of them to draft reports and recommendations. This is why some of them did not know that people outside the Tariff Board had been called in to work on the reports and recommendations. Board members, I believe, were not consulted before outside temporary staff were brought into the Tariff Board to do the post-analysis work. 1 have heard that one Board member who feels very strongly about this matter did not, simply for reasons of embarrassment, join those who expressed a dissenting opinion. The embarrassment was caused by the fact that he had signed a Tariff Board report on a very important subject, and that that report had yet to be tabled- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I had not finished talking about the Tariff Board when my time expired so I shall take my second opportunity to say a few more words. One of the phrases that is used constantly in every Tariff Board report is economic and efficient'. Because the Tariff Board uses that phrase so often I decided that I would check to see whether the Board could meet its own criteria. I find that in 1950-51 the Tariff Board made 38 reports and it then had a staff of approximately 15. In 1960-61 it made 43 reports and its staff was then about 50. In 1962-63 the Board had the amazing record of producing 58 reports, and its staff was then 60. In 1967-68 it produced 32 reports, and it then had a staff of approximately 110. In 1969-70 the Board produced 35 reports and it had a staff then of approximately 140. In 1970-71 it produced 25 reports and it then had a staff of approximately 160, with an administrative structure which allowed it to have a staff of 190. I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  whether he is prepared to find out and to report to this Parliament on what is going on in the Tariff Board. Why is it that in 1950-51, with a staff of 14 or 15, the Board could present 38 reports and that in 1970-71 with 12 or 13 times the staff that it had in 1950-51 it could make only 25 reports? 
I think it is reasonable - I think it is expected by every honourable member on this side of the chamber - that Australian industry should be economic and efficient, but I certainly will not sit here and have somebody judge whether an industry is economic and efficient when the figures I have produced, from the Tariff Board's own reports, indicate that with a staff of 14 or 15 it could produce approximately 38 reports and that with a staff of approximately 160, augmented by part-time assistants from the Monash University, it could present only 25 reports. I see the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  shudder when I mention the Monash University because in his opinion that university does not even count; there are more demonstrations per day there than there are at any other university in a week. 
Someone is sitting up there as a god - and this is how the Tariff Board appears to me at the present time - and is presenting some reports with the help of academics or through acrobatics. The Tariff Board is trying to destroy the employment of men and women in my electorate. I return straightaway to the report which the Tariff Board has presented. I did not like a comment that was made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  when he said that within a few hours of the report being presented I knew what was going on. I did my homework. I have been taking an interest in Tariff Board reports for the last 10 years, and I did not like that comment from my side of the chamber. I have it all marked in the report; I have been through it. What did  Mr Cossar  say in his dissenting opinion? It is written in the third person. 
He was not. I heard him aright. 
All right.  Mr Cossar's  dissenting opinion is written in the third person. The report states: 

 Mr Cossar . . . wishes to make it clear that he has not sought and will not seek the employment of such persons. 
Those persons come from the Monash University. The other 2 members of the Board who issued dissenting opinions were  Mr Dudley  and  Mr Hampel.  Amongst other things they said: 
It would thus be understandable if witnesses were inclined to suspect that the Board had already drawn its conclusions on the subject of the study, and possibly on the whole inquiry, even before the public hearings opened. 
The report goes on to state what these 2 gentleman said - again in the third person:   the Board is acting in a manner inconsistent with the interests of witnesses and other parties involved. The first reason for this belief is the less straightforward. It concerns not so much the ability of the Board to keep the confidences entrusted to it, but rather its ability to continue convincing witnesses and potential witnesses that it can do so. 
Further on the report states: 
It is thus important that nobody should he capable of sustaining a suspicion that the Board's ability to preserve the confidences of witnesses was being in any way eroded. 
Further on the report states - again in the third person because someone wrote it for Messrs Dudley, Hampel and Cossar:   the Board depends in large measure  on  its reputation for fairness and impartiality, which must take precedence over other considerations. For the reasons discussed above, both the preinquiry studies and those by people other than the Board's permanent staff appear likely to place this reputation in jeopardy. 
Australia cannot afford it. We have a full employment economy, and this Government should realise that in 1960-61 when there were 220,000 people unemployed the Labor Party, for the first time since I have been a member of this Parliament, went within one seat of winning the election. I do not care whether we become the government, but I will not allow any government to put people out of employment, to put them on the dole and go back to the depression days. Unless the Tariff Board is as economic and efficient as it claims the industries which it is studying should be then I just will not accept another Tariff Board report while I am in this Parliament. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Austrama Television Pty Ltd (ATVO), in its original application for a television licence, staled that the two major objectives of the station would be to provide an overall programme pattern to foster national sentiment and pride in Australia and Australian achievements and to make Channel O the family station whose programmes may be viewed by all members of the family. 
If so, is the Australian Broadcasting Control Board convinced that a definite and concerted attempt has been made by Channel O to achieve its objectives. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has any branch of the Australian Armed Forces investigated the potential of the Rank Individual Weapon Sight (IWS). 
If so, is it the intention of the Government to equip any of our forces with the IWS; if not why not. 
If no investigation has been made, will he undertake to have one carried out immediately. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say whether (a) official United States Atomic Energy Commission estimates for 1,000 
MW (e) Light Water Reactors constructed in North America during the period 1969- 197 5 would he approximately $US246m, including 7i per cent escalation, interest during construction and very high labour charges, (b) a recent report by the Reactor Assessment Panel of the Edison Electric Institute gives an estimated capital cost of a twin unit Light Water Reactor power station of 2300 MW commissioned in 197S of approximately SUS220 per KW, including all client's charges and escalation and (c) similar costs obtain iii Europe for Light Water Power Reactors. 
Is it a fact that the 500 MW power reactor which was considered for Jervis Bay was estimated to cost approximately $US230m including all client's charges and escalation. 
If so, does this represent a capital cost of approximately SUS460 per KW. 
Would this capital cost be considered acceptable to. the Government in the light of experience by responsible overseas authorities in the nuclear field. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modem history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10m immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of$2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all In its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners,  as  in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
When the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  made his original statement on the reorganisation of the Australian Post Office telecommunications activities on 16th September, about 5 weeks ago, he commenced by saying: 
I present to the Parliament a statement on a matter of great importance to the Post Office and the community it serves. 
He went on to say: 
An opportunity to review our organisational structure and working arrangements arose following a recent service-wide study of the employment of engineers by the Public Service Board. 
In the statement which he circulated to honourable members, under the heading Conclusion' he said: 
The changes are quite radical. They are designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Post Office telecommunication management. They are in harmony with modern business practice of clearly identifying management authority and responsibility. 
But nowhere in the Minister's original statement or in the statement that he has made today did he make any mention of consultations with staff associations. It was not until my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  was speaking, on 16th September, that the Postmaster-General indicated by interjection that consultations had been held with staff associations. My information since then is that if any discussions were had with staff associations they took place belatedly and were very perfunctory in manner. If it had not been foi the. diligence and initiative of the New South Wales branch of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and in particular  Mr Peter  Evans, a State organiser of that Union, these radical changes, which are of great importance to the Post Office and to the community it serves - there I paraphrase the words of the Postmaster-General - would almost have escaped the notice of the staff and the community affected and would almost have escaped the notice of this Parliament. 
The New South Wales branch of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union, through  Mr Evans,  let the results of the reorganisation of the telecommunication activities of the Post Office be known throughout the areas affected and to the staff of the Post Office. I repeat that there was very little consultation with anyone before the reorganisation decision was announced. In his original statement the Postmaster-General mentioned a survey by the Public Service Board. He went on to say that the changes were in harmony with modern business practice of clearly identifying management authority and responsibility. That is a typical ministerial statement. It is typical Government practice. The Government asked the Public Service 
Board to make a survey of the engineering sections of the Postmaster-General's Department. I would say that most of the men conducting the survey would have no experience in the workings of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Having obtained their opinions, the Government then looked at management practice, and those 2 things have been taken into account. But the human welfare of the staff concerned and the human welfare of the communities affected have not been taken into account at all. The chambers of commerce, the unions, and the staff associations knew little or nothing about the reorganisation of this section of the PostmasterGeneral's Department until it was announced here. 
If my memory serves me correctly, the Assistant Minister assisting the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Robinson)  let the cat out of the bag in a country area 2 or 3 days before the Postmaster-General had an opportunity to announce the decision in this Parliament. Typically, the statement made today and the statement made on 16th September demonstrate the attitude of doing everything without consultation with the men and women who are working in the Post Office or in a government department and of making a decision without telling or without consultation. Then if industrial unrest is created the employee is immediately blamed for that industrial unrest. In this instance the staff associations have been treated almost with disdain. Over the past few weeks I have received letters and telegrams from various sections of the Post Office unions and from personnel. One letter reads as follows: 
We the undersigned members of the ACOA located in the Costing Section of the Administrative Branch of the Engineering Division, PostmasterGeneral's Department, view with considerable concern the complete lack of information available to us on our future career prospects following the proposed introduction of the Telecommunication Area Management and Restructuring of Engineer Organisational Concepts arising from the Engineer Review Team report. 
And you dismissed the staff association organisations under the words 'and others'. Is it any wonder the Post Office is subject to industrial unrest when you, the Minister, and your senior officers treat the employees' representatives in this way? In your statement today you again mentioned that only 25 to 35 staff members from the districts not designated as area headquarters are likely to have to be transferred but then you go on to make alterations in the proposals that you announced only 5 weeks ago. 
No, there is nothing wrong with that, except that I cannot understand how you as the responsible Minister in the Government can come in on 16th November and make an announcement in this House without giving any facts or figures at all and relying on a Public Service Board survey and on management practices, and within 5 weeks you change that reorganisation. 
You changed the reorganisation and in the  4  points that you set out in your statement today, you have deliberately tried to curtail some of the criticism that has already been made about the proposed alterations. I condemn the Minister because he did not know what was proposed in the reorganisation until such time as the New South Wales Branch of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union let it be known not only to members on this side of the House but also to councils in the country areas, to Country Party supporters and to Liberal Party supporters, and it was then- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, inhis statement the Postmaster-General says that he made his original statement on 16th September. I have quoted the following extract from it: 
I have since received many inquiries and representations. 
As a result of those representations the Minister changed his original proposals. I do not think he has given nearly sufficient consideration to the reorganisation. As far as I am concerned, and I think I speak for most Labor Party supporters, I am not against the efficient reorganisation of the Postmaster-General's Department but we do not want these decisions made without due and proper consideration not only for the top echelons of the Post Office but also for the workers. Human beings are affected in this situation and to those of us on this side of the House human beingsare the most important commodity in this country of ours. They have to be considered; otherwise there will be industrial unrest and the Government will continue to blame the workers in the Post Office and in the Public Service generally for the things that are happening in the community at the moment. The Government cannot ride roughshod over the people in these organisations. There are staff associations that are prepared to meet the PostmasterGeneral or any of his administrative officers at any time over these matters. 
They met one or two days before you made this announcement. 
They met one or two days before you made this announcement and 1 believe that it was not until the honourable member for Cowper let the cat out of the bag that you decided to go and see them. This reorganisation is perhaps necessary, but if it is necessary surely greater consideration should have been given to it than has. been given to it. In 5 weeks you can make some drastic alterations to it but you still stick to that figure of 25 to 35 people in the area not designated as area headquarters but there are still to be 25 or so people transferred or otherwise disposed of in those areas. 
The minister said: 
On this basis the original  plan  would  have  involved the eventual movement of about 25 to 35 staff positions from  a  district centre not selected as Area Headquarters over  a  period of several years. This was clearly stated by me on 16th September. 
He made no other mention of 25 to 35 staff positions there. 
The indications are from information that I have - I understand that this information has been given to the Postmaster-General and he has not contradicted it in the statement that he made today - that in New South Wales the country centres which will be affected are: Armidale, Bathurst, Dubbo, Gosford, Goulburn, Kempsey, Lismore, Maitland, Narrandera and Parkes. In Victoria something like 8 centres will be affected, in 
Queensland3,in South  Australia  3, in  Western Australia 2 and in Tasmania one. No consideration has been given to the people who are likely to be affected in those areas. 
The factual information has been provided from outside this Parliament. 
The minister has made 2 statements and has not given one fact. He has generalised on everything and if it had not been for the staff associations highlighting to Country Party supporters what was likely to happen to the staff of the Post Office the proposed reorganisation of this section of the Post Office outlined in his original statement would have continued exactly as he set out. The PostmasterGeneral has again indicated that he has very tittle consideration for the employees in his Department. He has very little consideration for the community at large because he started off his statement of 16th September by saying that thu was a statement on a matter of great importance to the Post Office and the community it serves; but nowhere in that statement or in the statement that he made today does he spell out in any way what is likely to happen. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate step to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, the Government proposes to commence consideration of the estimates of the Department of National Development at 25 minutes to 2. The proposed appropriation for this Department is in excess of $39. 5m. In this debate 15 speakers are listed. If each took his allotted time a debate lasting  2i  hours would ensue which means that we would be sitting after 4 a.m. As a protest against the lack of consideration, the gall and the audacity of the Government in commencing the consideration of these estimates at this time, 1 move: 
That progress be reported. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I may state, by way of preface, that the Minister for Defence has admitted that the procedures of his Department were inadequate to keep him fully informed about discussions being held within the Department on the training of Cambodian troops. He has assured the House that he has taken steps to ensure that there is no recurrence of 'this slip up'. I now ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Did a similar slip up occur in his Department? If so, what steps has he taken or does he propose to take to ensure there is no recurrence? 
The amendment moved by the Opposition reads: 
That the proposed expenditure' be reduced by $1. 
This is intended as an instruction to the Government to prepare urgently and implement a national fuel and energy policy. For the benefit of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  I point out that the amendment was moved in this manner because that was the only way that it could be moved. The Opposition has moved this amendment as an instruction to the Government to prepare and implement a national fuel and energy policy. The Opposition has moved the amendment for the very simple reason that the Australian Labor Party realises and appreciates that Australia is one country. It mav be divided into 6 States and 2 Territories, but we have generally an homogeneous population. Everyone from Cape York to Darwin speaks the same language. In the States there might be many differences but none of us when we go overseas are known as New South Welshmen, Victorians or South Australians. We are all known as Australians. The resources of Queensland, Victoria. New South Wales or any other State should, in the view of the Labor Party, be used for the 13 million people of Australia. The Labor Party does not agree that the States should have the right to use and sell their natural resources at any price they so decide at the behest of any government or any foreign company. It is not good enough for the Labor Party when Australia's resources are not used for the benefit of all Australians. It is for that reason that the Labor Party adopted a policy on fuel and energy at its last conference in Launceston, Tasmania. I know that the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  quoted part of that policy earlier tonight and I acknowledge here and now the important part that he played in the deliberations before that policy was sent to our Federal Conference. So that nobody in this House can misunderstand our policy I quote it in full. I put it on the record so that people cannot say that a Labor government would want to take over every coal, oil and natural gas resource from the various States. Our policy reads: 
Labor will establish a joint Federal/State Fuel and Energy Commission to devise and implement an integrated and coordinated national fuel and energy policy. The Commission will 
regulate the exploration, development, transportation, marketing and use of oil, natural gas, coa], fissionable materials and generative water, 
prevent depletion of fuel and energy resources needed to match Australian requirements in mineral processing, general industry and national development, and 
guard the ecology and environment from pollution by fuel extraction and energy generation. 
Labor will stimulate the growth of nuclear technology, particularly by the earliest possible Commonwealth initiative to establish nuclear power stations using enriched uranium in reactors of basically similar design. 
Labor will work for the enrichment of Australian uranium resources in plants which are located in Australia and which have at least a majority Australian control of equity and policy. 
Labor will not use the development of a nuclear industrial capacity for the purpose of creating a nuclear weapon component in Australia's defence force. 
That is a truly Australian policy. The resources of every State in the Commonwealth will be used and controlled in cooperation with the States for the benefit of all Australians, Labor will not and cannot allow our natural resources to fall into the hands of overseas companies. Labor will not allow them to be exported at such prices and at such a rate that resources for our own needs will be depleted. Labor does not want to regret that by taking short term advantages we have suffered long term sorrow. Labor appreciates that the Constitution prevents Commonwealth control of our oil, natural gas, coal, uranium and other natural fuel and energy resources. But we do believe that by cooperation with the States and by establishing a combined Federal-State fuel and energy commission to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated fuel and energy policy then our natural resources can be used to our advantage here in Australia and can be sold overseas to our advantage. 
After 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule in this Commonwealth Parliament no attempt has been made to have a national fuel and energy policy. Perhaps I need to correct that statement because the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  did make an attempt in certain areas to ensure that Australian resources were kept under the control of Australia and used for the benefit of Australians. But he met with a very sorrowful end. The Liberal Party and its outside controllers, by devious and foul means, banished him to the farthest back bench in the House. 1 doubt very much, because of the type of people who control the Liberal Party and the Country Party, that he will ever get much closer to the front than he is at the moment. The Liberal Party and the Country Party have always believed that private profit of companies and individuals is more important than the human being. The Liberal Government in New South Wales proves that fact entirely. I need mention but one word - Clutha. 
The agreement entered into between the New South Wales Liberal Government and Clutha Development Pty Ltd is now a cause for criticism from almost every section of the community in New South Wales. It is a sell-out to private enterprise, and Australia cannot afford to have similar agreements in any other State in the Commonwealth, That is why we suggest that a Federal-State fuel and energy commission should be set up so that these precious resources - and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  made mention of how short in supply the world is of some resources - will be available to us in fairly plentiful quantities. Unless we protect them, unless we use them correctly then we are going to regret the actions that we have taken. 
The honourable member asks who will dig it out for us. Nowhere in the policy that I read out is there anything about complete government control. Certainly we want control of equity and policy but we are prepared to use overseas know-how and overseas capital, but not so that overseas investors will gel all the profits, take them away and not have them returned to Australians. Fundamentally the Labor Party is concerned with Australia and the people who reside here. I commend, and recommend, the amendment that was moved by the honourable member for Cunningham. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Universal Telecasters Qld Ltd (TVQ 0), in its original application for a television licence, proposed that a minimum of 40 per cent of programme time would be occupied by Australian programmes in the second and third years of operation 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members ot the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and .seeks to live the last years of his life in his native laud or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France Germany, Turkey. Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  spent all of his time attacking the proposed health scheme of the Australian Labor Party. One would have thought, because of the many constituents he represents and the number of complaints that he must receive from them about his Government's health scheme, that he would have spent a little time suggesting improvements to the present scheme which is in operation in  Australia.  I should like to discuss 2 aspects of the present health scheme. One is the non-recognition of physiotherapists for Commonwealth benefits and the other is the common fee that is supposed to be charged for operations by doctors so that no operation should cost a member of a fund more than $5. Both of these matters are highlighted in the case of the daughter of one of my constituents who suffered an extensive injury to her right hand. All the muscles, sinews and the main nerve controlling the spanning of the hand and the feeling in the thumb and small finger was severed. A 3-hour operation was necessary and it was performed at Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney. After the operation, daily physiotherapy was ordered by the specialist and an account for over $ 1 50 was incurred. 
The medical fund to which my constituent belongs allows a maximum benefit of 60c a treatment for a maximum of 30 physiotherapy treatments - a total benefit of $18 - yet the man received a bill for over $150 for physiotherapy which was declared to be essential by the specialist who had performed the operation. I represented the case to the Minister for Health and asked that he make a special benefit available in this case. I also requested that the National Health Act be amended to allow for the payment of a Commonwealth benefit for physiotherapy when it is certified by a specialist medical practitioner as an essential treatment for an injury. In bis reply, the Minister stated: 
Commonwealth medical benefits are available only in respect of those professional services listed in the First Schedule to the National Health Act. Physiotherapy is not included in this Schedule. 
The question of the provision of Commonwealth medical benefits for physiotherapy can only be considered in conjunction with the claims of other services such as optometry and home nursing for similar benefits. From time to time, consideration has been given by the Government to extending the National Health Scheme to include the payment of benefits for such services. However, up to the present time it has not been found practicable to do so. 
The Minister's letter continues: 
The decision as to whether health insurance organisations pay benefits for ancillary, services, such as physiotherapy, is a matter for the management committee of the particular organisation to determine. However, each organisation is limited to a relatively small proportion of the total benefit payments made in respect of all ancillary services. Accordingly, the level of ancillary benefits provided by organisations is inclined to be low in relation to the cost of such services. 
So, not only does the Government fail to recognise physiotherapy for Commonwealth benefits but also it apparently limits the amount of benefit that can be made available by the funds to a member of the organisation. 
I suggest that the approach of the Government towards physiotherapists and also towards the funds in limiting them to only a certain proportion of benefit is ridiculous. Physiotherapists are well trained; they are university trained. It is a recognised profession. Most doctors refer patients to physiotherapists for treatment. The doctors have absolute trust in the physiotherapists. They are employed in hospitals and very often, in hospitals and in other areas, they do as much to restore the patient to health as does the doctor who performed the operation or who commenced the treatment. I think that physiotherapists should be recognised under the National Health Act, even if this recognition is limited to the degree that I suggested, namely, that the physiotherapy treatment must be certified as being essential by a specialist medical practitioner or, if the Government wishes to widen the range, by a general medical practitioner. Once physiotherapy is certified as essential, it should attract a Commonwealth benefit as well as a fund benefit. 
Let me come back to the point that I made about physiotherapy treatment costing my constituent $150 while he received only $18 from the medical fund for that treatment. I ask the Minister at the table to suggest to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that if he will not recognise physiotherapists, special provisions should be made in cases like this for ex gratia payments. This man is only a normal working man who is perhaps in the middle income bracket, but he had to find over $130 for the physiotherapy treatment for his daughter. However, that is not the worst part of this case. He also had to find another $191 for the specialist's fee of $261 and the anaesthetist's fee of $66.50.  His  full fund and Commonwealth benefit for the operation and for the anaesthetist's fee amounted to only $135.75. The injury to his daughter's hand has cost this man over $320, yet the honourable member for Bennelong neglected to make any criticism at all of the national health scheme that be and his Government have fostered. 
A definite promise was made that no operation should cost a patient any more than $5. Yet, in this case, a severe injury to the right hand of a 10-year-old girl who was a promising pianist has cost the father no less than $320. To me, that is absolutely and utterly wrong and something should bc done immediately to rectify it. It is no good the Minister, when replying to representations that I made to him, saying that the patient has the right to discuss fees with the doctor. This case involved a girl with a cut hand. She was taken to the casualty section of a hospital. Is any parent going to sit down when the specialist comes in and say to him: 'Look doctor, how much are you going to charge? If you are not going to charge the common fee I will have to go and see what  Dr X  will do the job for'? In the meantime, the daughter would have almost bled to death. The Government has a duty in this direction. If a doctor is not charging the common fee and if it is brought to the Minister's notice, he should issue a reprimand to the doctor through the Australian Medical Association. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  provided us with some figures earlier which indicated that too many doctors are not observing the common fee and this Government is allowing them to get away with it. Let me give honourable members an example of this situation. In the case to which I referred, the specialist charged a fee of $261 - $11 for the first consultation and $250 for the cost of the operation. It was an extensive operation. The anaesthetist charged $66.50. He was certainly working for 3 hours. Under the present health scheme, where multiple operations are involved, there is a reduction in the amount of common fee that can be charged by the doctor. The normal anaesthetist's charge for this type of operation is $38.50, and for a multiple operation it is still $38.50. So m this instance the anaesthetist charged well and truly above the common fee. Four operations were carried out on. this girl's hand. For the first operation the common fee was $45 for a single operation and $45 for a multiple operation. For the second operation the common fee was $45 for a single operation and $22.50 for a multitple operation. For the third operation the common fee was $33 for a single operation and $8.25 for a multiple operation. For the fourth operation the common fee was $40 for a single operation and $10 for a multiple operation. The common fee charge for the anaesthetist and the specialist should have been only $218, but the actual charge was $327.50. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Can he say whether Consolidated Press Ltd, on behalf of Television Corporation Ltd (TCN 9 Sydney), in its original application for a television licence estimated that SO per cent of programme material would be live productions. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to live production on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Can he say whether The Herald and Weekly Times Ltd, now Herald-Sun T.V. Pty Ltd (HSV 7 Melbourne), in its original application for a television licence estimated that 72 per cent of programme material would be live productions. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to live production on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Can he say whether Amalgamated Television Services Pty Ltd (ATN 7 Sydney) in its original application for a television licence estimated that 67 per cent of programme material would be live productions. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to live production on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Can he say whether General Television Corporation Pty Ltd (GTV 9 Melbourne) in its original application for a television licence estimated that, after 3 years' operation, 62.8 per cent of programme material would be live production. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to live production on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Queensland Televisin Ltd (QTQ 91, in its original application for a television licence, estimated that at the end of the first year of operation 43 per cent of the programme time would be devoted to live entertaintment. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin of this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Bribane TV Ltd (BTQ 7), in its original application for a television licence, estimated that the total Australian content of programmes would amount to 50 per cent of transmission time. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. &lt;4) What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Southern Television Corporation Ltd (NWS 9), in its original application for a television licence, estimated that programmes would comprise 45 per cent live material and would be increased as the station developed. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that Television Broadcasters Ltd (ADS 7), in its original application for a television licence, estimated that 40 per cent of programmes would be designed to give opportunities to local artists and to those of other States through recordings. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up thi percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Austarama Television Pty Ltd (ATV 0), in ils original application for a television licence, proposed that programmes of Australian origin would occupy 58 per cent of the total programme time in the first year and would gradually be increased in the . second and third years. 
If  so,  was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon  notice: 
Is it a fact that United Telecasters Sydney Ltd (TEN 10), in its original application for a television licence, estimated that for the third year of operation, 37.5 per cent of programme time would be occupied "by station originated live material. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What, percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that South Australian Telecasters Ltd (SAS 10), in its original application for a television licence, proposed that at least 50 per cent of programme time in the second and third years of operation would be devoted to programmes of Australian origin. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Tasmanian Television Ltd (TVT 6), in its original, application for a television licence, proposed that 40 per cent of programmes would comprise live entertainment. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Swan Television Ltd (STW 9), in its original application for a television licence, proposed that 48.8 per cent of transmission time would be devoted to Australian programmes. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make . up this percentage. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that TVW Ltd (TVW 7), m its original application for a television licence, stated that during the first year of operation the programmes would comprise 41 per cent live productions. 
If so, was this promise fulfilled. 
What percentage of programme material is presently devoted to programmes of Australian origin on this station. 
What types of programme make up this percentage. 
The quick retreat into his burrow by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  brings me into this debate. In the last few minutes I have been refreshing my memory on what happened in this chamber last 
Thursday evening, 25th November. At one stagethe honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was speaking and he addressed a question to the honourable member for La Trobe as follows: 
If we moved an amendment which stated:  "Australian Soldier" means a serving member of the Forces', I understand that the honourable member for La Trobe would be willing to support us in that regard. 
The honourable member for La Trobe replied: 
You would be dead right. 
The honourable member for Hughes went on and said: 
Of course. If the word 'serviceman' were substituted for the word 'soldier' in the amendment, the honourable member would be more effectively accommodated. 
The honourable member for La Trobe said: 
I would even agree with that. 
The honourable member for Hughes continued: 
I know that the honourablemember for Moreton will be pleased to know that the Opposition has decided to submit an amendment to that effect. Already we have an indication that the honourable member for La Trobe is prepared to assist us. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  interjected and asked: 
May I take it that you are fining it down to serving member? 
Further on in the debate the honourable member for Moreton, in making his speech, said: 
Those people who have served, particularly in South Vietnam, in one of the 3 Services, even though they have not been committed to an operational theatre, should have an entitlement As recorded at page 3720 of Hansard the honourable member for La Trobe, speaking to the amendment, said: 
Let it be most clear that as the Act stands at the moment a regular soldier, sailor or airmail serving at this time - and who in my opinion could serve for5 years or10 years or 15 years - is not entitled to a war service homes loan if his commanding officer or the powers that be have not appointed him to a war theatre. I say that he should be so entitled. 
The debate was subsequently adjourned. Later that evening, by leave, the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  said - I quote from page 3735 of Hansard: 
I merely want to give to the House an assurance that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has advised me that Cabinet will consider the position of regular servicemen who are finding difficulty in obtaining home finance. My, understanding is that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  will be happy to accept this undertaking. 
The honourable member for Moreton interjected and said: 
I indicate that 1 am happy to accept it, too. Both of them showed clearly that they were already prepared to run away from the statements that I have quoted from Hansard. The honourable member for Moreton was a member of the Ministry as Minister for the Navy and Acting Minister for Air. He said a few moments ago that when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  spoke on a previous occasion on repatriation he was Acting Minister for Air and was in agreement with the proposition that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was espousing at that time. The honourable member for Moreton had, or should have had, more authority then than he has now. He could not get an assurance from the members of the Ministry at that stage that they would look at it and the reason he comes in now - he is a sacked member of the Ministry - is because he is publicity chasing. He has got his publicity out of what happened last Thursday, and on the assurance that the Government will now have a look at it, both the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for La Trobe have once again put their tails between their legs and crawled away. The opportunity is here and now. Both honourable members can vote for this amendment and give an opportunity for serving members of the regular forces to be given this war service loan to which they are entitled. 
We cannot get volunteers into the Regular Army because we are not giving them the conditions that will bring them in. The Government is splitting straws on things that should be granted. I will agree with a lot of the things that the honourable member for Moreton said and that the discrimination should be removed. The Labor Opposition is trying to remove that discrimination in the amendment that it has moved. If the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton have any sincerity or decency in them at all and if they believe in what they said on Thursday night the simple assurance that the Cabinet will at some stage consider should not be enough. All they have been promised is consideration, not a guarantee. They have the guarantee from the Opposition in the amendment that we have moved. We want to see the war service homes loan go to the serving members of the forces. I think that in honesty to themselves the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton should stick by the record and their statements of Thursday evening; otherwise I am afraid that the word of both those gentlemen can no longer be accepted. Any reputation that they have enjoyed, and they have both enjoyed a reasonable one, will be very much sullied. 
 I do not have to read your opening words on Thursday night. I heard you this afternoon. You are hanging your hat on the fact that if they have to go to Vietnam or a specially declared strategic zone you will give it to them, but the boy who is conscripted into the Army and is not sent away to Vietnam is not entitled to it under the stand that you take. The honourable member for Moreton is perpetuating some of the discrimination that he is complaining about. The fellow who goes to Vietnam, whether he goes for a day or a week and whether he is on the HMAS Sydney' or some other ship should be entitled to it, but the boy who is conscripted and is in the Army and is sent only as far as the electorate of Moreton is not entitled to it. He has the same responsibility if the powers that be decide, to serve in Vietnam or to go anywhere that the Government cares to send him, so in taking the stand that the honourable member for Moreton takes he is perpetuating the discrimination in a different direction, the discrimination that he says should be curtailed at this moment. 1 ask both honourable members for the sake of their reputations to vote for this amendment. The honourable member for Moreton is now getting a reputation as being somewhat of a fighter since he has been sacked from the Ministry. I think that most of his efforts at this moment are designed to get him publicity because be knows that the Labor Party campaign against him in Moreton will cause him trouble. So what he has done on Thursday night and again this afternoon is only to send out a cry to "This Day Tonight' or one of the political commentators so he can be heard on radio or seen on television. I ask that both the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton stick to the assurance that they gave to the Committee and to the - Opposition on Thursday evening.  V 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise whether it is a fact that one result of the Government's indigenous crude oil pricing policy is to make the price of Gippsland crude oil, landed at  the refinery, significantly more expensive for the Australian-owned company Ampol Petroleum Ltd, than for all but one of the other oil companies, ls the Minister satisfied with a situation which has been caused by Government policy and which seriously disadvantages an Australian company in competition with foreign owned companies? If not, what action does the Minister intend to take to change this anomalous policy which compels an Australian company to distribute portion of its profits to foreign owned oil competitors? Would a fixed common 'into refinery' price for Gippsland crude oil be much fairer to all companies concerned than the present f.o.b. Westernport price? 
Under the present Government the intention behind this Bill is a good one. Something had to be done about the steady slowing down of the Tariff Board. The Bill will be of some assistance towards reducing this slow-down if the inquiries on dumping, by-laws, tariff classification and the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement are dealt with separately from the complex time-consuming inquiries associated with whether an industry should be protected and, if so, at what level. But the changes contemplated will do little or nothing to reduce the rate of slow-down in the Board's handling of these complex and particularly important inquiries. What the Bill can do is to enable the dumping and other inquiries to be disentangled from the slow grinding machinery of the Board and handled in a separate channel. This should mean that the time from the reference of one of these issues to the Board until the delivery of the Board's report should take no longer than 3 months. This will be a tremendous improvement. In recent years such cases have taken anything from 8 months to 2 years. 
Non-tariff revision cases are not greatly involved issues. Although they do call for sound judgment they do not entail the gathering and analysis of masses of evidence, investigation of costs, prices and profits or involved judgments on whether an industry is economic and efficient. Indeed the Tariff Board, in its 1964-65 annual report, suggested that the Board's role in dealing with dumping cases was very much a routine endorsement of the findings of an investigation by the Department of Customs and Excise. The Board said that it would be better to relieve the Board of them altogether and to let the Minister make the judgment. However, it is possibly a good thing to retain the public inquiry procedures in connection with both dumping and other cases. The best solution is to make special provision for handling them quickly. A look at some of the reports on these issues suggests that they took the time they did simply because they had to take their turn among the other inquiries. Put simply, for the greater part of the time they just lay around waiting for attention. 
It would have been better had the Bill provided that the additional member of the Tariff Board was to be engaged solely on these particular cases. This would have ensured that non-tariff revision cases would be handled separately and quickly, away from the other inquiries. If it is a good thing to handle these references separately and quickly - I think the Minister suggested it in his second reading speech and I am certain that industry considers that it is essential that they be handled quickly - the Government should have laid down in the Bill that this bc done. Instead it has thrown itself on the mercy of the  chairman  of the Tariff Board, as it has done consistently in the past few years. It is to be the Chairman's decision whether the new member or any other member of the Tariff Board will be used entirely on non-tariff revision cases as a single particular division of the Board. I certainly would like to have seen this written into the Bill as I cannot be certain that the present staff of the Tariff Board is being used economically and efficiently. 
About 4 weeks ago, during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry, I quoted figures which showed that in 1950-51, with a staff of approximately 15, the Board produced 38 reports. In 1962-63 the Board produced 58 reports with a staff of approximately 60. Last year with a staff of abour 160, augmented by part-time assistance of academics from the Monash University, the Board could produce only 25 reports. This looks like a clear example of Parkinson's law in operation. I should like the Minister to say why it is that in 1950-51, with a staff of 14 or 15, the Board could deliver 38 reports but with a staff 12 or 13 times greater in 1970-71 it could produce only 25 reports. The answer cannot be that inquiries these days are more difficult, more involved, more detailed and more time consuming. The answer is not, as the Tariff Board tries to suggest, that industry is slow in giving it information. A look at the time lag between the close of a public inquiry and the delivery of a report makes that suggestion a lot of nonsense. The answer seems to be that the now tremendous staff resources of the Tariff Board are being employed in pursuing pet theories instead of getting on with the inquiry and report work of the Board. 
Last year the Tariff Board started with a backlog of 54 references. During the year it increased its staff steadily and finished with a backlog of 63 cases. That must make nonsense of the Government's talk about a systematic review of the tariffs. At the rate of progress indicated by the Board's recent history, the review will take about 50 years during which the Board's staff will increase to about 5,000. I suggest that the Minister should call in the investigation services of the Public Service Board to overhaul the use of the Tariff Board's staff. One of the interesting spectacles we have witnessed since the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  took office has been his readiness to spring to the defence of the Tariff Board at the slightest provocation and virtually to defend it tooth and nail come what. may. This is a remarkable phenomenon which warrants close study, lt might, at first, be thought that he believes in the infallibility of the Tariff Board just as much as the Tariff Board itself does, but this does not hold against his involvement in the recent decision to reject the Tariff Board's recommendations on knitted and woven shirts, and a rejection it was, even though the decision was dressed up to make it seem the opposite. The Prime Minister obviously was on side with that decision because he mentioned it with some pride on a couple of occasions. In fact, he drew attention to it with pride in answering a question on the Tariff Board a few weeks ago. Of course, it was not easy to see at the time he was answering the question that he was mentioning the shirt decision with pride, because he was almost trembling with rage against the honourable member who bad had the temerity to criticise the Tariff Board. The Prime Minister seemed to forget that the recent controversy about the actions of the Tariff Board had arisen from the dissenting opinions of 3 members of the Tariff Board itself. These members of the Board had been critical of the  Chairman  of the Board for allowing consultants hired from universities to have access to confidential information given to the Board by companies appearing before the Board. The same members were critical also of the likely reflection on the reports and recommendations of the Board when it became known that views and recom medations had been sought from anonymouse specialists outside the Board and, of all places, Monash University. 
The Prime Minister obviously wants all of us to reject the opinion of these 3 Tariff Board members. But what they had to say about the actions of the Tariff Board is contained in the formal and official annual report of the Tariff Board made to this Parliament, and their opinions cannot be ignored. The present controversy about the Tariff Board has developed within the Tariff Board itself; it is not something which has been generated by manufacturing industries, by their organisations or by the Opposition in the Parliament as the Prime Minister would have the Parliament and the community believe. I suggest that rather than the Prime Minister getting excited about it, we must look very soberly and quietly at this issue of confidential information. The people defending the action of the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board are saying that, after all, the university people really were temporary public servants for the purpose of helping out the Board, that they had been duly sworn in and that everything therefore was in order. 
The important thing to be noted is that the companies whose confidential information was being handed over knew nothing at all about it. They gave their confidential information believing that the safeguards of. SO years tradition were being continued. That tradition, as the Minister's predecessor  Sir John  McEwen so often told us, was that confidential information given to the Tariff Board does not go outside the Board and its staff - not even to him when he was Minister for Trade and Industry, not to the Prime Minister and not even to the Cabinet when sitting in judgment on a Tariff Board report. I take it that all Ministers are all duly and properly sworn. 
On 30th September this year I asked a question of the Minister for Trade and Industry regarding the use of outside consultants by the Tariff Board and he advised the Parliament that he had referred the matter to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  for opinion. The Minister must have had some doubts about the legality of the use of such personnel or he would not have taken such an action. However, it was not until 3rd November that the Minister made a statement setting out the opinions of the Attorney-General on the matter. The Minister said:  . . that it is perfectly proper that the Tariff Board should have a research staff available to it at all stages of its work. I refer to the use both of permanent staff and of consultants. 
But he went on: 
I add that the discussions that have taken place have shown that, in regard to the engagement of consultants, appropriate procedures were nol followed. Revised procedures for engagement have since been agreed upon with the Public Service Board and wilh the Attorney-General's Department. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry interjects that it has been in relation to the matter of pay only. His remarks do not read that way here. The Minister went to to say - 
lt does not read as the Minister has suggested it reads in the context I am putting it. It does not read that way in the context of the speech that the Minister made because he said that appropriate procedures were not followed in the engagement of this staff. I feel that the 3 members of the Tariff Board who presented a dissenting opinion, even if they were right only in that point alone, were entitled to put in their dissenting opinion. Members on this side of the House agree that the report of the dissenting members was not a complete attack upon the Tariff Board. But the Prime Minister certainly has tried to make an out by saying that anybody who criticises the Tariff Board is commiting in his eyes a grave error. I think that the dissenting members of the Tariff Board have been more than upheld in the judgment that they expressed. I do not quibble with the right of the Tariff Board to have research staff available. But I would prefer to see them as permanent members of the staff. In this statement that the Minister made on 3rd November, he mentioned that the Tariff Board was having difficulty in getting this staff. If it is necessary to employ pact time consultants or research officers - call them what you will - I think that the names of the people engaged, their background and their qualifications should be made available to the industry that is being studied by them so that the industry may decide whether it will become part and parcel of that inquiry or whether it will rest entirely on the public inquiry that the Tariff Board will conduct. 
I asked a question seeking the names of those so employed. 1 have not received those names. They have not been announced. Who is to know whether some of these consultants are not people like Eccles, the free trader', his mentor the Modest Member', 'Prof the Protectionist', Curly the Com' or even 'Don from the DLP'? Industry is being asked to give confidential information to the Tariff Board. Industry is entitled to know that those people who are being used part time, even if they are sworn in, are people who can be trusted. Industry should know something about their background and about their attitudes to tariff policy. If information is given to industry about .the part time people, the Government may be able to go somewhere along the line .towards having a pieinquiry analysis or a post-inquiry analysis carried out with the concurrence of industry. But until such time as the manufacturing industry knows who these people are, I do not blame it for not giving confidential information to either permanent members or part time members of the Tariff Board. 
Industry protects its information. As I said, a matter of weeks ago, for someone to go into another industry and find out something about its costs, its profits or its prices is regarded as industrial espionage. I do not think that the Minister can disregard this matter. The real issue in the use of outside part time consultants, whether sworn or unsworn, is whether manufacturing industry is willing to have its confidential information handed out to academics from Monash or any other university. The answer can be given by the manufacturing industry only. It is up to the Minister to ensure that the trust which industry has placed in the Tariff Board in excess of 50 years is not disturbed. 
I come back to the suggestion that I made earlier in my speech. It is time that the activities of the Tariff Board were investi gated to see whether its staff is being economically and efficiently used and whether the attitudes at present adopted by the Board are in keeping with the opinions of the Parliament, the Government, industry and the Australian community. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  jnd. Member; of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens cf the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, earnestly request our Government to: 
increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict. so that thi refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Speaker, industry will be pleased with the slight improvements that have been foreshadowed by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the Australian Industrial Research and Development Act, but industry feels that the present Act does not go far enough in encouraging it to have, more industrial research and development throughout industry. The scheme can be greatly improved, I am afraid that the Government, in the foreshadowed improvements to the Act, has worked on the old Act rather than look at some new ideas in the field of industrial research and development. An interdepartmental committee has been investigating what improvements should be made to the Act. I wonder whether that interdepartmental committee was instructed to work only on the Act at present in existence or whether it was given approval to look at other Acts throughout the world. 
Has a decision been taken by the Government or by the interdepartmental committee that this is the only industrial research and development scheme that should be followed in Australia? For instance, in the United States of America  65  per cent of the amount spent on industrial research and development is given by the United States Government. In Australia, according to the fourth annual report of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board, only  863  companies in Australia have been assisted. In the year  1970-71  an amount of only  $16,250,000  was paid out for industrial research and development. 
Australia is a young country. It needs new ideas. It needs new products. Our companies need encouragement in order to undertake the research and development necessary for these products. I feel that the Government needs to do far more in this area than it is doing at the moment. The encouragement it is giving to industry is not sufficient. We need far greater research in selected areas. I think that the Government should Jay down the areas in which it will help and should give those selected areas greater incentive payments than it has given them in the past. I note from the speech of the Prime Minister that the amount of grant that can be made will be increased to  50  per cent with a maximum of  $50,000.  Previously that was the amount, but for some reason the Government a year or two ago reduced the amount payable to  35  per cent. Now it has come back to the  50  per cent. But I also note that that  50  per cent grant is not. to operate until  1972-73, 15  months from now. I cannot help being suspicious when this legislation is foreshadowed in an election year, with the Government holding out the bait to industry but not introducing the legislation to bring the grant back to  50  per cent until the financial year  1972- 73. 
I want  to  make some comments on this section of the Prime Minister's speech: 
After careful consideration, the Government has decided to retain the requirements in the present Act regarding professional qualifications but proposes to introduce some minor modifications of this provision. 
The fourth annual report of the Australian Industry Research and Development Grants Board shows that  32  applications for grants were rejected because the industrial research and development work had not been performed by or the grants would not provide direct assistance to a professionally qualified person. So  32  companies, although doing industrial research and development work, were not able to receive a grant because the person in charge of the industrial research and development did not have a professional qualification. The Prime Minister said that he is to make some minor modifications. It seems to me that the requirement regarding a professional degree will be maintained. A constituent of mine, writing to me on this topic, said: 
I write regarding the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board, or, more specifically, the Act which governs its operation. 
One of many conditions imposed by the Act which must be met before a grant can be made is felt by us to be unnecessarily harsh. In fact this condition bars this division of the Company from receiving assistance although we do carry out worthwhile research and development in our field. We manufacture industrial power transmission equipment - gear speed reducers, couplings, clutches, chain sprockets etc., and most of these products are designed and developed in our own plant. To remain competitive we keep our ranga of products under review and when required completely re-design. We also develop special products for customers through design, prototype and eventually production stages. We have had preliminary discussions with an officer of the Department of Trade which department acts on behalf of tha Board in this city, and it would appear that all these activities are eligible for consideration by the board. 
However, we are barred from this consideration by another requirement which states that the research and development regarding which application is made must be carried out by, or under the direction of, a person qualified within the meaning of the Act, and this qualification virtually requires a University graduate in one of the Engineering disciplines. Our research and development is carried out either by myself or under roy direction, and I have no such qualifications. 
I would point out that 1 have been actively involved in the Mechanical Engineering industry for over 20 years, starting as an apprentice filter, machinist and toolmaker; 1 have had formal education in my field in that I completed the first 3 years of study in a 5 year Diploma course in Mechanical Engineering with the then University of Technology (now University of N.S.W.) Since abandoning that course of study because of ill health, 1 have continued to develop my theoretical knowledge of my own particular field. 
For the last 12 years I have been involved in engineering design in this field and 3 years ago the Company saw fit to place me in charge of this area of activity. 1 thus describe my record to you not as a boost to my own  ego, but as backing for my claim to have made of myself something of an expert in my own field. I certainly regard myself as better qualified to direct research and development in this field than any 21 year old University graduate with no field experience, however bright lie be, and yet such a person can gain recognition by the Board while I am excluded. 
WC realise of course that there must be some restriction on recognition in order to ensure that research and development is being carried out efficiently and thoroughly, we cannot expect public money to support inefficient operations. We do contend, however, that the current formula is not merely unsatisfactory, but quite unfair in its operation. It is unfair in that without this assistance our research effort is somewhat more restricted than it otherwise would be, while it could bc that a hypothetical competitor, with the aid of this grant, could be encouraged by the government to expand his research work, thus giving him a government backed advantage in the market place, even though his research ability may be no better than our own. It is this requirement that we feel is particularly harsh. 
We feel further that ours cannot be the only company placed in this position. There must be many other companies perfectly capable of doing worthwhile development being thus discouraged from doing so by the very act which was originally intended to encourage them. 
I repeat that the Prime. Minister said that the professional qualifications provisions of the Act would be maintained with some minor modifications. I do not suggest that the professional qualifications requirement should be taken away but people with the experience of my constituent - the 32 companies mentioned in the annual report of the Board must employ people with practical knowledge and experience in their field but without professional qualifications - are being debarred from receiving a grant under this Act. 
As I said earlier this country needs research and development; it needs a lot of new products, and it needs to have them manufactured efficiently and cheaply. Until this Government faces up to the problems that industry sometimes has in paying for its own research and development 1 believe that the research and development necessary in Australia will not be continued at the rate at which it should be continued. I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is sitting at the table, to see that the argument advanced by my constituent for special provisions to be written into the Act to allow people with practical experience to draw a grant under this Act for industrial research and development are conveyed to the Prime Minister. 
The Opposition has grave doubts about the motives behind this Bill. Its main aims are to increase the period of currency of television and broadcasting station licences from one year to a maximum of 3 years and to amend the ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act to protect the interests of persons and companies which since 17th December 1964 have had special privileges in being allowed to retain more than a prescribed interest in the ownership and control of television and broadcasting station licences. It is the timing of the introduction of this legislation which gives rise to the Opposition's suspicions. Now only a few months before an election legislation is introduced to extend the period for which television and broadcasting licences can be renewed. The period of extension will take those licences to within a few months of the following Federal election when a Labor government will be in office. 
I am not suggesting that a Labor government has any intention of taking drastic action against the present holders of television and broadcasting station licences, but we, together with a substantial body of public opinion, are not satisfied with the television services provided by some of the stations or of the standard of some of the programmes. If this legislation is passed the present conditions imposed on licence holders will still prevail and the improvements which we envisage will be much more difficult to introduce when a Labor government is in office. Our suspicions of the motives of the Government are increased when it is noted that the ownership and control provisions of the Act are again to be amended to give protection to certain privileged persons and companies in the community which have more than a prescribed interest in television and broadcasting stations and are likely to lose that protection by an alteration in their shareholding. Both amendments are designed to safeguard the interests of persons and companies which are known and acknowledged supporters of the Government. 
The Opposition takes a great deal of heart, however, from the clear acknowledgment that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  at least believes that the Government of which he is a Minister will be defeated at the forthcoming election, and he is trying to protect the interests of his friends. Let me make the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the media quite clear. Our policy is as follows: 
As well as being a medium of entertainment, television and radio profoundly affect the educational, cultural and artistic standards of Australians. 
Because of the limited number of frequencies available for radio and television, it is necessary for government to regulate these areas in order to ensure that the public interest is protected, but, as far as possible, the traditional freedom of the Press should apply to radio and television. 
The dual system of national and commercial radio and television is to continue. The tendency to monopoly is especially dangerous and must be resisted by appropriate legislation. 
A fairness principle will be included in the legislation regulating radio and television so that opposing viewpoints will have a fair opportunity of expression. 
The political independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be secured by amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act and by proper administrative arrangements, including finances provided on a long term basis. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission should be able to determine its own programmes and, subject to the fairness applicable to commercial stations, to exercise its functions free of improper pressure from any source. 
The general principles of the Senate Select Committee on Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television will be implemented. 
Legislative and administrative steps will be taken to increase Australian content and to preserve a reasonable balance between material of Australian and overseas origin.  (Minimum quotas with appropriate weighting according to the nature of the programme for Australian dramatic, professional variety, and educational programmes will be established and enforced for both national and commercial stations. Taking into account the different nature of radio programmes, endeavours will also be made to encourage Australian content on radio in neglected fields. 
To ensure that the programme standards ot television and radio are maintained at the highest level, Labor will undertake a complete review of the conditions upon which licences are granted and renewed. All applications for issue and renewal of licences will be heard in public. 
The Board or any interested person or body will be enabled, in case of an dispute or difference, to apply to an appropriate tribunal for an interpretation of the Act, standards, licence conditions or quota provision and obtain a decision as to whether the same have been or are being observed. 
The Opposition intends to oppose the increase in the period for which television and broadcasting licences are issued. We believe that the Government has given little consideration to this matter, and the timing of the introduction of this legislation suggests that. We have no objection to the period being increased once it has been established that television and broadcasting licence holders are prepared to abide by the conditions of their licences and the conditions of the Act. 
No review has been made of the conditions under which licences are granted and renewed since television was introduced in 1956. Many of the promises of the successful applicants for television licences, in particular about Australian content in programmes, the encouragement of local talent and the standards of their programmes have not been kept, or have been kept only reluctantly. The Opposition believes that a full review of the conditions upon which licences for television and broadcasting stations are renewed and granted is absolutely necessary at this stage. On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be referred to a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the conditions under -which television and broadcasting station licences are granted and renewed'. 
We are reinforced in our request for the establishment of this select committee by the attitude of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. The 10th annual report of that organisation for 1970-71 given by the general manager,  Mr Arthur  Cowan, makes critical or strong comments or raises doubts about such matters as the Australian content in television programmes, the future of musical and variety shows, the difficulty of children's programmes, the veracity of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's research, the credit loading on good class documentaries and current affairs programmes, the restrictions on election telecasts, the criticism of television stations over cigarette advertising and the restrictions on Sunday morning programmes. 
It can be seen from that that commercial television station owners are not satisfied with many of the conditions imposed on them by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or the Broadcasting and Television Act. I feel that the Federation should support the amendment that I have moved on behalf of the Opposition to have a select committee appointed to hear and to evaluate its complaints. But not only is the Federation of Commercial Television Stations critical of the conditions of its licences and the conditions applied to its members; the Australian Broadcasting Control Board time after time, year after year in its annual reports is also critical of broadcasting stations and television stations. 
The Board continually has representations made to it by the commercial broadcasting and television stations for amendments to be made to certain portions of the Act. I have to admit that the criticisms in the reports of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board are very mild, but behind the words used one can often detect discontent in the Board with the actions of certain of the commercial television and broadcasting stations. A really good example of the differences between the Board and the commercial stations can be found on page 40 of the Board's Twenty-third Annual Report for the year ended 30th June 1971 under the heading Challenge to the Powers of the Board'. The criticism concerns Sunday morning broadcasts and is mild, as I have already said. On page 76 of the report under the heading 'Advertising' the Board refers to advertising on broadcasting stations. Paragraph 325 states: 
Observations by the Board's monitoring staff indicated a fairly satisfactory level of compliance with the advertising time standards by stations, although it was necessary to discuss with the managements of 30 stations isolated instances of non-compliance. 
Another example of the Board's mild criticism is to be found on page 84 of the report, under the heading of 'Renewal of Licences for Commercial Television Stations'. Paragraph 359 states: 
The general performance of stations in regard to the very great range of the requirements of the Act and the Board covering administrative, technical and programme matters of various types was generally satisfactory. On the other hand there were some deficiences particularly _ in the fields of some excesses in advertising and in compliance with requirements for Australian content in programmes. In no instance was the matter of sufficient gravity as to suggest that the renewal of  a  licence should be affected. 
In that paragraph the Board used the words generally satisfactory'; in the previous paragraph I quoted the words used were fairly satisfactory'. Infringements had occurred of the conditions laid down for television and broadcasting station licences. One of the strange things about the reports of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is that there are never any examples of the breaking of the conditions. It can be seen from what I have said that the administrators of the Act and those who are being administered have faults to find with each other over the provisions of the Act and the conditions of the licences. I suggest that that is good evidence that a review is necessary. 
I have referred so far to the general complaints of the Federation of Commercial Television Stations and some of the comments of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in its last annual report. The general public also have a number of complaints to make about radio and television stations. The general complaint about television stations in particular concerns excessive advertising - the breaking up of programmes by 2 or 3 advertisements at a time. On a number of occasions when I have been watching television programmes the standards relating to the number of advertisements to be shown consecutively have been broken. The public complain about that and also about the monopoly control of television stations. People complain about the lack of Australian content in programmes and the failure to encourage Australian artists, producers, directors and writers. They complain also about canned overseas programmes, particularly their standards. 
It appears,  Mr Speaker,  that no section concerned with television, whether the station owners, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or the general public is satisfied with the standard of television and broadcasting in Australia. The Opposition takes the stand that before increasing the period for the currency of a television or radio licence to a maximum of 3 years a review of the condtiions under which those licences are granted should be made. The amendment I have moved on behalf of the Opposition deserves the support of this House. 
I pass now to the provisions in the Bill to amend conditions relating to ownership and control of television and radio stations. The Opposition intends also to oppose that amendment and in this matter our attitude is utterly consistent. In all instances that this section of the Act has been amended we have tried to obtain legislation which would break the monopoly control of Australian television and radio stations. We have had plenty of opportunities because this section of the Act has been amended by this Government in 1960, 1965, 1969, 1971 and is again proposed for amendment. All our attempts to do something about the monopoly control of television and radio stations in Australia have been frustrated by the Government. 
We do not expect success on this occasion, but we will try again because we believe that it is dangerous to have control of the mass media in too few hands. On each of the previous occasions that the provisions relating to ownership and control of television and radio stations have been amended the incumbent Postmaster-General has assured the House in terms similar to those used by the present PostmasterGeneral in his second reading speech. He said: 
This rather complex matter has been most carefully examined by officers of the Attorney-General's Department and by parliamentary counsel in consultation with the Board, and I am satisfied that the proposed amendment will not lead to any loopholes in the Act. 
The last time that was said was in March 1971 when this legislation was last before the House. Now another amendment is proposed, less than 12 months after the last amendment which attempted to prevent an anomaly or loophole in the ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act. Our reason for opposing the proposed amendment is that certain individuals and companies were granted a major privilege by this Government in 1964 in being allowed to retain more than a prescribed interest in television and radio licences. They have retained that privilege since. They have had a very fair go. 
Because certain individuals or companies have realised or are to realise on their holdings, or change the format of their companies, and this was to lead to contravention of the Act, special provisions are being included in the Act for them. The monopoly control of television and radio is already too great, and to do anything to preserve that monopoly control is against the interests of Australia and its people. The machinations of private enterprise have caused and could in future cause troubles, and as ardent believers in the private enterprise system, those individuals or companies who now find that they could be or have been affected by the present legislation should take the good with the bad. One never hears of them handing back some of the dividends from their investments. But now, because the Government on 5 or 6 occasions has tried to tie up these provisions and individuals and companies are getting a little bit of a backlash, the Government comes to their protection again. 
What I object to is the fact that since 1964 and even before some individuals and companies were in control of more than the prescribed interest in television and radio licences. They have had a fair go at the wicket and now if by some machinations of private enterprise it happens that their interests contravene the Act, they should sell out what is over the prescribed interest: and if this takes them below the limit they should have no right to buy back above the prescribed interest. It is not correct to give certain people in the community who had these interests before 1964 advantages that are not now offered to any other television licensee or to any other person who now buys into television or radio stations. The multiple interests of newspapers are given in Appendix J of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's Report for 1970-71. I have quoted these figures on previous occasions. It is almost frightening to see what control newspaper owners have over newspapers and radio and television stations. I do not intend to quote these figures again tonight but I would commend them not only to honourable members in this House but also to the general public in order that they might see how closely preserved the ownership and control of radio and television stations and newspapers are in this great land of ours. 
A Labor government will not protect any monopoly; in particular, it will not protect a monopoly that controls the mass media, a monopoly that can form the minds of people. If these interests turned against this Government in the next 6 months Government supporters would hardly have a seat amongst them and I do not believe that any person who is not answerable to the community and the people at the ballot box should have that power in his hands. 
Certainly it is why the Government is here. These interests have been on its side all the time. 
The mass media has been part of the reason why the ALP has been in opposition since 1949. Honourable members opposite should remember,  Mr Speaker,  that your Government has had the mass media on side, and if the mass media turned against it your Government would lose. The mass media does not give the Opposition a fair go but the Opposition still goes very close to the Government in elections. It gets more votes in Australia at any federal election than the Libera" Party and the Country Party combined but it is still not the Government. To the Opposition it is absolutely necessary to have a free Press and mass media. The Labor Party regards it as part of democracy, but if the mass media is controlled by too few people democracy can be in jeopardy. To the members of the Labor Party democracy is too precious for that. I commend to the House the amendment I have moved. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: "4. Section 85 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by inserting after sub-section (2a.) the following sub-sections: - (2b.) The Minister shall refer an application made under this section to the Board for its recommendation as to the renewal of a licence. (2c.) Before making a recommendation, the Board shall bold an inquiry in accordance with this Act into the application.'; and 
by omitting sub-sections (3.), (4.), (4a.), (5.) and (6.).". 
The Opposition has moved this amendment because the Act at the moment provides that before a television licence is issued the Postmaster-General must receive the application, put a notice in the Gazette and refer the application to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for it to hold a public inquiry into the applicants and their right or otherwise to be granted the television licence. So in these instances of initial issue of licences the Minister expects a public inquiry to be held. After the licence has been granted, under the present Act the licensee is then entitled to hold the licence for a period of 5 years without renewal. This Bill provides that the period for the renewal of a licence be increased from one year to a maximum of 3 years. Section 85 of the Act deals with the renewal of licences. There is no provision in that section that the Minister ask the Board to conduct a public inquiry. In anticipation that the Government would win on a vote to extend the renewal period to a maximum of 3 years the Opposition decided that if licences are to be renewed for 3 years then it should be up to the Minister to ensure that the television and broadcasting stations are doing the right thing by the public. There should be no objection at all to the Opposition's amendment. The Minister in his second reading speech suggested that the reason for the extension of the renewal period was that the Board was overloaded with work. If that is the case now, in view of the proposal for renewal of licences every 3 years we think that the Government should be prepared to allow a public inquiry to be held into applications for renewals. 
The Minister has indicated that in future multiple licences held by companies will become due for renewal on a set date. The form required under the Act at the present time can still be completed by those companies holding multiple licences and on completion of the form the Minister should, as is done in regard to the initial issue of licences, refer applications for renewal to the Board for public inquiry. At that inquiry, I think, organisations or individuals should have the opportunity to give evidence as to whether this television station or that television station is carrying out its functions in the way that the public would like. This would not take a great deal of work. The Opposition does not imagine for one minute that these inquiries will be protracted legal inquiries. If there is a legitimate complaint by the Broadcasting Control Board or by a member of the public a public inquiry should be held and the complaint of any organisation, individual or the Board could be aired publicly. We suggest that this is an amendment that deserves consideration. As my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said last night, when you issue a television licence to a company you are giving to the company the right to make a fair deal of profit. The licence does not belong to the company. It is an instrument handed out by the Government, the representatives of the people, to these organisations to enable them to provide a service. If they do not provide the service they should be open to public scrutiny. For those reasons the Opposition has moved this amendment. 
S:r ALAN HULME (Petrie- PostmasterGeneral) (2.28) - I am not prepared on behalf of the Government to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  I think it is necessary to go through some of the facts in relation to examinations by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board of applications for renewal of licences. The honourable member for Lang indicated what happened in the initial issue of licences. Without going through all the details, I point out that a public inquiry is held on applications for licences. At that point of time there are generally a number of applicants for licences. If a licence is for a capital city then obviously there are more applications than there would be for a licence in a distant country place where it is not quite as easy to get groups of people together to provide the necessary capital. A public inquiry is held at this initial stage. The licence is issued for  a  period of 5 years. 
I think it is important for the Committee to have a statement on what happens after that initial 5-year period when the question of renewal arises so that honourable members may, if they wish to discuss the statement in the Committee stage, be better able to do so. Upon application for renewal a comprehensive examination is made by the Board. It must not be assumed that when a renewal application is received the Board gives automatic approval. For somebody to raise objection to the granting of a renewal and to suggest that some other organisation would be a more appropriate licensee of the station is not without precedent. What does this comprehensive examination involve? First of all. the Act sets out certain standards. The Act provides that the Board shall determine the standards, firstly, the technical standards. I cannot readily envisage that there is likely to be much objection raised about technical standards because very few people within the community would know what the technical efficiency of a particular broadcasting or television station is. At this point I do not think it would be expected that queries would be raised by a member of the genera] public even though he himself may be competent in terms of being an engineer or a technician. Therefore I do not think that wc would get much out of a public inquiry into a renewal application insofar as technical standards are concerned. 
The Board also has a responsibility to determine programme standards. There will always be discussion in public on Australian content, musical content, drama content and the other things which can make up a programme whether it be broadcasting or television. It must be the Board which finally makes a judgment in regard to whether or not a station is meeting the required standards. The Board lays down the standards and it may say that a station shall have 50 per cent of Australian content in the programmes, other than in the initial period. I remind the Committee that in the initial period of 3 years it is not necessary for a station to abide by the Board's standards, so let us forget that aspect and deal with the position at the end of 5 years - which is the renewal time - when the station should have a 50 per cent Australian content of programmes. Many people will say that it ought to be 55 per cent. Many will say that it ought to be 60 per cent - fix the percentage wherever one might. 
The Board has a standard of 50 per cent and that is all that the station is required to do in regard to Australian content of programmes. Is it suggested that in an examination of an application for renewal, because somebody comes along and says: We could establish a station and we would give a 55 per cent or 60 per cent Australian content' he should be given the licence, if that is what is wanted? I do not believe that that would be the expectancy of the Opposition or of this Committee or even of the Australian community. The standard of programmes does not really become a question of public opinion unless it is proven - and information is always available from the Board - that the station seeking renewal is not meeting the standards laid down. If it is believed that there is something wrong with the standards which exist then it is not to the station that objection is taken but to the Broadcasting Control Board for not having sufficiently high standards. But I believe that this does not affect the renewal situation. 
The Board also has the responsibility to determine the standards of advertising and last night the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  gave us quite a substantial dissertation on whether there should be cigarette advertising and whether there was justification for advertising various petrols or motor cars that might do 140 miles an hour. These matters can be debated in a philosophic discussion but are we to adopt an attitude that such advertising should be withdrawn from commercial broadcasting or telecasting stations? The very basis of the dual system which operates in this country and which is admired by a number of other countries is that there  k  a national station which does not advertise and there are commercial stations which obtain their revenue from advertising. I do not believe that it is the responsibility of the Board 'o put strictures upon the advertising of this product, that product or some other product. If we want a discussion on advertising and its effect on costs or its relationship to the economy generally, let us have a discussion on advertising. However, I do not think that on the question of standards which are determined by the Control Board in relation to broadcasting and television, what should be or should not be included as advertising material on programmes is pertinent. Nor do I believe that, when it comes to a renewal of a licence, in fact the Board would have much regard for views which are expressed on advertising. 
So, that is the examination situation in relation to standards which are determined by the Board - technical standards, programme standards and advertising standards. Where do we go from there? Do not let anyone believe that in any circumstances the only questions asked by the Board are at the time of an application for the renewal of a licence. The Board constantly is monitoring the various programmes of stations. Officers of the Board visit the stations regularly to test and to check the technical equipment which the stations have and the Board offers advice to the various stations if it believes that they are not up to standard. I believe that everybody has a right to go to the Board to ask questions, but if there is a continuous monitoring and continuous supervision by the Board of the standards being observed and of the equipment in the stations, why should there be an open, public inquiry when their licences some up for renewal? I should like to know what is expected to be gained from such an inquiry, because I have no doubt in my mind that the intelligent people of the community, appreciating , the things which I have said, would in fact make representations to the Board. Of course, I can believe that there would be plenty of representations made by the cranks of the community but would these people really be contributing anything to broadcasting or televising? I do not believe they would and therefore cannot see the justification for the Opposition' proposal. 
1 rather liked the Postmaster-General's definition of a 'crank'. He says: 'If you do not agree with me on television matters that puts you into that category.* 
He did say that. 
He did say it; I listened to him. If he had bothered to look al the amendment we have moved he would have seen that it provides greater safeguards for television and radio licence holders than the present Broadcasting and Television Act does. Section 85 (3.) of the Act states: 
When an application for the renewal of a licence is duly made, the Minister shall - 
refer the application to the Board; and 
if he thinks that there may be grounds for  refusing  the application, direct the Board to hold un inquiry into the application in accordance with this Act, specifying those grounds in the direction. 
So the Minister already has the authority to direct the Board to hold an inquiry. He only has to think that there may be grounds for refusing the application. All that the Minister was saying about technical services, programme requirements and not having knowledge of a matter falls down when one looks at that section of the Act. The Minister can direct the Board to hold an inquiry into an application for renewal of a licence if he does not like the colour of the eyes of  Sir Frank  Packer, or some other licensee. What we are suggesting is that there shall be an inquiry into the renewal of every licence. The Minister said in his second reading speech that generally licences will be renewed for 3 years. Initially licence holders receive a licence for 5 years. At the end of 5 years they apply for a renewal of the licence, and if their technical services and so on are up to standard they will receive a renewal of the licence for 3 years. Under the present provisions of the Act, every time an application for a renewal of a licence is lodged the Minister can decide that there shall be an inquiry into the application because he thinks that there may be grounds for not renewing the licence. 
We want television and broadcasting licence holders to know that each time they apply for a renewal of their licences certain requirements will have to be fulfilled, and one of those will be that they will have to appear before the Board at a public inquiry. It would give them the opportunity to answer any charges which might be levelled against them by the Board or by the Minister, either privately in conversation or in correspondence. The people in the community, cranks or otherwise, who want to go and listen to the evidence that is produced by a company on its operations and to listen to the criticism that the Board might make about a licence holder would be able to do so. 
All the argument which the Minister advanced about an inquiry having to be held at Charleville or some other town would not be valid. The Minister fully knows that of the 167 television and radio stations in operation throughout Australia, there would be very few about which the general public would wish to complain. If there were complaints I would imagine that those complaints would be made against the metropolitan stations, not against the country stations. So there will not be as many drawn-out inquiries as the Minister suggests. There may be one or two. If the Board advertised when an inquiry was to be held' - giving a fortnight's or a month's notice - if it called for people who wished to give evidence to appear before it and if non-one appeared before it, if no evidence was produced, the Board would go to the public inquiry and say: 'We recommend that this licence be renewed for 3 years'. That will not cost a great deal of money, but it will take a great deal of authority out of the hands of the Minister. The Minister and those who sit beside him continually accuse the Australian Labor Party of wanting to control the mass media. We believe in the dual system of television and radio; that is part of our policy. But we also believe that the Australian people have the right to put under scrutiny those people who are controlling this most powerful medium of television. 
Let me give one example. I think that by way of interjection the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  asked how often the Board has failed to renew a licence. If the Minister cares to look at the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1971 he will see that there was an inquiry into radio station 2XL Cooma because of the lateness of its application and because the Board was not satisfied with the station's technical equipment and generally was not satisfied with the station's operations. An inquiry was held, but it was not held at the Minister's direction. If the Minister looks at the section of the Act which I quoted earlier he will see that if the Board is not satisfied it also has the authority to direct an inquiry. So there is provision in the Act for an inquiry to be held. We wish to tighten it up. We just say that you shall not have the right. It is mandatory. It is written into the Act. It will happen. We want to take away your power and take away the powers of the Board to move in on someone for some reason. 
An inquiry was held into 2XL Cooma and a recommendation was made that the licence should be renewed provided the station met certain requirements. I invite the Postmaster-General to look at the annual report of the Board for the year ended 30th June 1971 where he will find comments about 2XL Cooma. Its technical standards are still not up to the requirements of the Board, but you have renewed the licence for 12 months. The power that you have now is absolutely amazing. We want to take some of that power away from you. You,  Mr Minister,  are retiring at the end of this Parliament. Whom will we get next? One from our side? I hope so. Are you prepared to give a Minister from our side the same authority as you have yourself? You never seem to trust us. You describe us as cranks when we criticise your legislation. I suggest that in your last few months in office you have a look at the Act a couple of times and find out what is in it. 
Clauses 5, 6 and 7 deal with the ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act. The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  gave reasons for section 92 of the Act being amended. He said that certain shareholders in companies had been confronted with difficulties in remaining within the safeguard provisions of section 92. The Minister decided that he would make an alteration so that those people who are in a privileged position in the community in holding more than the prescribed interest in television and radio stations could retain those interests without losing the safeguards that they have. For that reason the Minister has introduced amendments to the Act. The Minister said, in speaking to the Bill: 
One company has control of the maximum number of broadcasting stations. For certain reasons the Broadcasting and Television Act required the company to amend its articles of association. It is a very old established company. It did not want to alter its articles of association and so it went to the Board with a suggestion that it might form a holding company and that the shares which it held in the broadcasting stations might be transferred to the holding company. There was no addition to the company's shareholding; no reduction In its shareholding and no alteration or variation whatever. For some reason the company did not want to alter its articles of association. It merely wanted to create a holding company to look after these particular interests. 
The company did not want to alter its articles of association so the Minister will alter the Broadcasting and Television Act to please this old established company and to make sure that its very privileged position with holdings in television and broadcasting stations is retained. In giving a second example the Postmaster-General referred to companies A, B, C and D and suggested that there was some hardship for a company when an infinitesimal amount of shares was involved. The Minister referred to a figure of .0002 per cent. I can visualise him sitting with the problem in front of him, with the sympathy, compassion and understanding for which he is well known oozing out of him, wondering whether it was right or wrong. Then he decides that he could not take these people out of their privileged position and for that reason he will amend section 92 and subsequent sections of the Act. I wonder whether the Postmaster-General and the Government exercise the same compassion, sympathy and understanding when dealing with recipients of social service benefits. The Government has set a cut off figure in relation to the application of the means test. It does not matter whether a pensioner's income is .0001 or .0002 above that cut off figure. As soon as that happens, pensioners lose their medical benefit cards. They lose their transport concessions and their television and radio licence concessions. 
But the Minister is prepared to make a concession to a company which according to him would have had to sell 417,000 shares. I want the Government to apply the same set of standards to the pensioners as it has applied to these television station owners and shareholders. If there is a cut off line in section 92 of the Broadcasting and Television Act, that cut off line should be maintained. If the cut off line is raised, the same should be done for pensioners. They should be given an opportunity to step over the line a little. If they do step over it, special legislation should be introduced so they can retain their medical benefit cards and other privileges. Every year in the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board an appendix is printed which shows the shareholdings of newspapers and other organisations in broadcasting and television stations. As the Postmaster-General comes from Queensland, let me quote only one case from Queensland. Queensland Press Ltd, publishers of the 'Courier-Mail' and Brisbane Telegraph' holds a multiple shareholding in BTQ Brisbane and radio stations 4AK Oakey, 4BK Brisbane and 4AM Atherton. 
Queensland Press Ltd controls 3 radio stations, 1 television station and 2 newspapers. 
I turn to the holdings of the Australian Consolidated Press Group - the 'Daily Telegraph', Sydney - elsewhere in this report. I do not suggest that it holds a majority of the shares in the companies listed in the report, but in some instances the group holds a large proportion of the shares. This would give it a very big say in the running of these organisations. The Australian Consolidated Press Group has multiple share holdings in 10 television stations and 7 broadcasting stations, in addition to the 'Daily Telegraph' newspaper, the 'Sunday Telegraph' and a couple of women's magazines. Section 92 and subsequent sections of the Broadcasting and Television Act are designed to protect that sort of monoply control of the mass media of Australia. The Opposition opposes clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill because it believes that until such time as our mass media, particularly television, comes under more diversified control this country is in danger of being taken over by the Press barons who control it. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that United Telecasters Sydney Ltd (TEN 10), in its original application for a television licence, stated that the company felt that there was too much reliance on syndicated film programmes produced to a more or less stereotyped pattern in the main reflecting foreign outlook and that it held the conviction that a real and persistent effort should be made to bring a fresh, original and Australian approach to all types of entertainment programming. 
If so, is the Australian Broadcasting Control Board convinced that a definite and concerted attempt has been made by Channel 10 to put their conviction into effect. 
I ask the Prime Minis  ter whether it is a fact that he revealed on Tuesday night that he had not been consulted on the speech in which the Treasurer speculated about a family unit tax. If so, has he taken the strong action against the Treasurer which the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' in its editorial in the later edition yesterday declared he would be justified in taking? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Bonus Bonds Saving Scheme conducted by the New Zealand Post Office Savings Bank. 
If so, has any consideration been given tc introducing a similar scheme in Australia. 
If no consideration has been given to this matter, will he arrange to have the Scheme investigated to see whether it is worthy of implementation in Australia. 
-] ask the Treasurer a question relating to Government purchasing policy. In an article under his name in the March issue of the magazine Australian Purchasing' the Treasurer stated- 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  apparently have not read the text of the matter that was proposed for discussion by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  so I will repeat it for their benefit. It is: 
The failure of the Government to implement positive policies to encourage and maintain the progressive exploration of Australian oil resources. 
We admit that in the past we have criticised the oil policies created by this Government. 
Yes, and we are prepared to admit it. But the purpose of this motion is not to go back into the past. Wc want to have a look at the fuel and energy shortage throughout the world. We want to look at the fuel and energy shortage in 
Australia at this time, particularly the shortage of oil. The honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  stated facts which indicated quite clearly that there is a fuel shortage in Australia. Unless companies are encouraged to find further oil in Australia our import bill for this commodity alone will run into an enormous figure. 
We are saying that the Government in the 23 years it has been in office has not laid down a national fuel and energy policy. It has failed to use the resources of Australia in the interests of Australia. Our major criticism of the Gorton indigenous fuel policy was that it was formed without the concurrence of the Cabinet of the then Prime Minister - without consulting his Ministers. It was done virtually in a back room. It was an off the cuff decision. As it turned out, because of the ramifications of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries it proved to be a decision that went contrary, I believe, to what the then Prime Minister intended. At the moment the indigenous crude price in Australia is running below the OPEC price, and consequently there is a decline in interest in oil exploration in Australia. What we are trying to do is to enliven the Government to give further encouragement, particularly to Australian exploration companies, to find oil in Australia. There seems to be no doubt in the minds of all the honourable members who have spoken in this debate that there will be further finds of oil in Australia. 
Just let me reiterate some of the figures that have been quoted by the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Cunningham. The deficiency in Australia's oil requirements by the year 2000 is expected to be 1,000 million barrels. The cost of importing crude oil to Australia from now to the turn of the century is estimated to be between $20 billion and $30 billion. To find oil in Australia we will need, in risk capital alone, between $2 billion and $4 billion, and a great deal of that money will be lost on unsuccessful exploration. Additional costs will be incurred in the oil fields that are found, in the development of the fields, in bringing the oil to the well-head and in transporting it by freighter, pipeline or some other way to the refineries in order to have it refined into fuel. The estimated cost of this is between $7 billion and $10 billion. 
We are not worried about the royalty. We are just talking about these figures at the moment. All that has been spent on oil exploration in Australia is $600m. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  gave a long list of figures and made a long statement about the subsidies that have been granted for oil exploration. 1 think he gave a figure of $116m. But that is only 19 per cent of what the oil companies, the Australian public and the overseas public have spent on oil exploration in Australia. Government supporters continually criticise us when we ask for an Australian and government equity in Australia's natural resources. These resources are too precious for us to allow them to be taken over by any overseas company at all, and, if the taxpayers of Australia or the financial institutions of Australia will not produce the money in order to keep an Australian equity in our natural resources, then the government of the day must do it. When the Liberal Government sold out the Commonwealth share in the British Petroleum company it sold it on the basis that it did not believe that there should be a government equity in it; but it sold the Commonwealth share to a company that is 50 per cent owned by the United Kingdom Government. This Government is selling our resources; it is not looking after them. This Government having made those mistakes, we are trying to prevail on it to look ahead and do something for the future. 1 attended a conference of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association held earlier this month. I will admit - and the Association admits this - that it is a lobby. One gentleman who attended the conference, a  Mr John  Fuller, the  Chairman  of the Planet group of exploration companies and a foundation member of APEA which was founded in 1959 - that is before oil was found in Australia - made a speech. Before I go on to quote from his speech let me tell honourable members that John Fuller is a good Australian. He is an ex-prisoner of war and he is an exrugby union international. He believes in this country of ours and he has done all that he can to try to preserve an Australian equity in our oD resources in particular and in our mineral resources in general. In his speech John Fuller said: 
The foreigner is rightly welcome here and his achievements have been immense. But for him resources exploration opportunities in Australia are virtually laissez-faire. For the Australian prospectors and exploration companies it is different. 
Australian participation - which means Australian ownership - is shackled by the Commonwealth Government's taxation web which has frightened the Australian public out of participation in exploration ventures for Australian resources either as investors or as traders. 
In the context of the Commonwealth Government's present disincentive policies with respect to exploration in Australia by Australians it is not possible to raise  arne  blocks of speculative funds. 
The reign of taxation terror and inquisition against shareholders in Australian exploration companies must stop. The factor of taxation certainty with respect to an individual's investment decisions must be re-established. The alternative is virtual handing over on a platter, for overseas ownership, that which is nol already foreign owned. The overseas companies do not want it this way. They  also  want to be a healthy and substantial Australian ownership component. 
For Australian explorers I demand the unfettered right and opportunity to compete in the search for oil fields and mines alongside of and at least on equal terms with the foreigner, who acts within taxation frameworks which are based on certainty. 

 Mr Fuller went on to say: 
If there is to be any significant Austraiian investment in exploration endeavours in the future il will have to be based on predictable taxation consequences. 
We must be about the only developed country in the world where, wilh respect to natural resources, the overseas company gets a virtually laissez-faire go and the national companies, through the shackles of disincentive taxation policies, a maximum nf impediment. 
Quite apart from what the Commonwealth Government's disincentive policies have done to impede, or rather to preclude the raising from Australians of speculative capital for resources exploration ventures, another major problem exists.  1 have not sufficient time in this debate to develop that point. The idea and intention of the Opposition in bringing this matter forward today is to get the Government to look ahead, not to look back, if we do not look after our natural resources Australia will be deficient in fuel requirements and such a deficiency can spell disaster for Australia. We are suggesting that it is nec essary for the Government to have a policy that will encourage and maintain the progressive exploration of Australian oil resources. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. Did Queensland Mines Limited confer with the Government or the Department of National Development before entering into a provisional contract with Japan for the supply of 2,230 short tons of uranium oxide? Did the Peko-EZ Industries partnership secure Government permission before tendering for contracts to supply 10,000 short tons of uranium oxide to Japan? If so, are the terms of the contract and the tendering, particularly in regard to the price, favourable to Australia? If not, does the Minister intend to instigate inquiries? In view of Australia's interest in a centrifuge uranium enrichment plant, is the supply of uranium oxide to foreign countries considered to be justified and sensible? 
by leave-  Mr Speaker,  I must congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on the speech which he has just delivered. It is the most intelligent contribution that he has made for some time. It was a speech which I would feel proud to hear from my own Leader. It showed a great deal of common sense and indicated a desire to see that Australia is prepared for the future scientific and technological developments that will come. The proposal referred to in the speech is an excellent example of planning or, as we on this side of the House call it, socialism. To me, socialism is the best use of our manpower, brainpower and financial or natural resources in the best interests of the people and the nation. 

 Mr first complaint about the speech that the Prime Minister has just made is that it has taken so long for this Government  and other governments of the same complexion to recognise the need for this type of forward planning. But my major complaint relates to the fact that the proposal is almost a direct steal from the science and technological policy of the Australian Labor Party. To prove my point, let me give some quotations from the speech which we have just heard. The Prime Minister commenced his speech by saying: 
I rise to inform the House of new arrangements that the Government will make in relation to science and technology in Australia. These arrangements will involve the establishment of an Advisory Committee on Science and technology and provision for an appropriate secretariat. The function of this Advisory Committee is to furnish co-ordinated advice on actions and policies that would assist in the alignment of our science and technology, to our national objectives. 
On 1 1th September 1969 the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in a speech at the symposium of the New South Wales Division of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science held at the University of New South Wales, said: 
First, there should be a Minister for Science and Technology,. Not only would this be a new portfolio, but 1 believe it would involve a new concept in ministerial practice. A Minister tor Science and Technology would not be conceived as being directly responsible for the activities embraced within bis portfolio in precisely the same way as, say, the Postmaster-General or Minister for Social Services are regarded. Responsibility in the traditional sense implies direction by the Minister for the framing and implementation of the policies to be administered by his department officers. This is not an appropriate role for a Minister for Science.  His  role would be to facilitate, rather than to direct; to act as a channel of communication between the Cabinet and scientists, and between scientists and the Cabinet; to give an overall coherence to science policy, to see that a proper connection was maintained between scientific and broader political considerations in its formulation. Together with an Australian Science Council he would formulate policy recommendations for submission to Cabinet, and would seek, through the operational arm of his portfollio - CSIRO and comparable organisations - and to some extent through the Australian Science Council, the implementation of policy.  1 shall quote again directly from the speech of the Prime Minister so that noone can accuse me of misquoting either the Prime Minister or the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition. The Prime Minister also said: 
The rapid, and at times spectacular, advance made by science and technology in recent y.ears has brought with it a number of problems. For example, some research has become very expen sive in terms of manpower, money and equipment. Indeed some fields require facilities which are beyond the resources of almost any single one of the developed nations - beyond the resources, that is, if the country concerned is to maintain balance among the competing claims on the public purse. As a consequence, countries have been compelled to make explicit choice from among its various scientific and technological projects and to determine priorities for the allocation of resources. There is an increasing tendency therefore for countries to concentrate part of their resources on particular areas in which they have demonstrable need, expertise, or unique environmental opportunities. In addition, there is a growing tendency to avoid the national development of large and very expensive projects and to look towards the possibility of co-operation on an international basis. 
Later he said: 
What I do want to emphasise is that the Government takes the view that, before deciding to support new areas of science and technology, it is mandatory not only to assess the potential benefits, but also to forecast possible undesirable results. Only the best advice that can be obtained for this purpose is good enough. 
Australia has reached the stage where it becomes more important than ever to judge our priorities carefully because we cannot cover the whole field. We are therefore obliged to make decisions as to which of the demands should be satisfied. It may also be necessary to create opportunities for new scientific and technical developments so that specific national objectives can be achieved. We have thus 2 aims - to resolve the demands and promote areas outside of these demands. Neither can be neglected and a balance must be achieved. 
In his speech on 1 1th September the Leader of the Opposition said: 
Bearing these points in mind we can now consider what should be the basic aim of national science policy,. First, and foremost, such a policy should be aimed at guidance and management rather than direction and control. Second, it must envisage means by which the government can obtain guidance for the continuing formulation of science policy and can also obtain appropriate scientific advice as an integral part of the processes of general policy formulation. Third, the policy must aim at getting value for money spent. We must here be careful to define value in a fairly broad sense. Strict cost-benefit analysis is inappropriate to research activity if only because the ostensibly useless research results of today may turn out to be the basis of a major breakthrough tomorrow. Fourth, the policy would need to ascertain the order of priorities to be afforded the major areas of research. It would closely, examine the question of specialisation in those areas of science where research can most truthfully be followed. Small countries such as Holland, Sweden and Switzerland show the benefits of scientific and industrial specialisation. Fifth, a policy should assist to maintain and improve the effectiveness of scientific activity by minimising unwarranted duplication and by providing facilities for more rapid application of discoveries. Sixth, the policy should aim to deploy available scientific and technological resources so as to bring about planned innovation. Although the nature of a scientific breakthrough cannot be firmly predicted, competent scientists can often give a fairly clear indication of areas in which breakthroughs may occur if adequate finance and efforts are applied. In addition, deployment must take account of the possibility of 'surprise' - the unexpected scientific discovery that is of relevance to a large number of disciplines, an example of which is the laser. 
Having given these two or three examples from the speeches of the leader of the Opposition at a symposium on 11th September 1969 and the Prime Minister tonight, I want honourable members to note the similarity of phrase - the closeness of thought. What the Prime Minister said tonight is almost a direct steal of Labor policy. 
If these examples are not sufficient I refer to Australian Labor Party policy formulated and adopted at the Federal Conference in Sydney in 1965 and which appears in the 1971 issue of the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' of the Australian Labor Party.  Mr Speaker,  let me again bore the House by quoting this in its entirety because I feel that from now until the election the Government, which feels that it cannot win, is looking for new ideas and is taking them almost directly from Labor Party policy. The policy that was adopted in 1965 at the Sydney Conference reads: 
Science must not be regarded as a compartment, separate from other aspects of life. It is a fountainhead of human progress, the source from which technological and social changes spring, and it affects all aspects of life. 
Australia desperately needs national scientific research and development, but also enable the results of scientific research and development in Australia, and elsewhere, to be applied in every aspect of Australia's industries and in its culture. 
Labor therefore proposes - 
A Minister with direct responsibility for science and technology. 
An Australian Science Council, with a rotating membership of senior academic, industrial and governmental scientists, and a secretariat, to assist Parliament and the Minister on science and technology. 
The heading to the Prime Minister's statement is 'Advisory Committee on Science and Technology'. Labor policy is for an Australian Science Council with a rotating membership taken from academic and industrial circles. This policy was for mulated in 1965; the Prime Minister's statement is made in 1972. I continue my quotation from Labor policy. It states: 
A Parliamentary Standing Committee on 
Science and Technology, charged with reviewing policy on science and technology, and the scientific aspects of general governmental policy. 
To spend more on scientific and technological research and development, and to introduce long-term budgeting for this. 
Australia needs to expand its activities in scientific and technological research and development, and its scientists need greater independence from unnecessary cotrols. 
Labor therefore proposes - 
A review of the organisation of governmental scientific and technological research, and of research funding bodies, to be carried out by the Australian Science Council. 
Maintaining CSIRO and freeing it from Pub lic Service Board control. 
Expansion of research work in the universi ties. 
Establishment of  a  body similar to CSIRO to conduct research in the scoial sciences. 
An independent National Science Foundation to distribute funds to individuals and teams in universities, research institutes and industry, and for research in physical and social sciences and technology. 
Geological research and survey, forestry research and atomic energy research to be carried out in CSIRO or similar independent statutory organisations. 
Establishment of a representative and expert working party on all aspects of air and water pollution. 
Portability of superannuation between scientific and technological establishments throughout Australia. 
I repeat that that policy was laid down in 1965. What has been said by the Prime Minister today is almost a steal from Labor's policy. There is a change of wording and it is called an advisory committee whereas Labor called it the Australian Science Council. The things expressed in the Prime Minister's speech today were expressed by the Labor Party in 1965. Let me cite the final remarks in the Prime Minister's statement today: 
Up to the present time in developing policies for science and technology it has been our practice to seek advice through formal or informal channels from those sources most able to assist However, with the experience of other countries as  a  guide and the increasing range and complexity of the problems which we face it is now timely to change our approach. 
It has taken the Government only 7 years to catch up to the Australian Labor Party policy in this regard. From what the Prime 
Minister has said it would appear that following an overseas visit by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  Cabinet has caught up with ideas that it should have been aware of 7, 8 or even 10 years ago with the advice available to it. I could make a lot of further comparisons between the speech of the Leader of the Opposition on 11th September 1969 and the speech of the Prime Minister but I do not intend to do so. I emphasise that Labor's science and technology policy was formulated in 1965 after consultation with scientists, technologists and industrialists. The Australian Science Council which we proposed would and should be more effective than the advisory committee proposed by the Prime Minister. In elaborating on the Labor Party's proposal for an Australian Science Council, the Leader of the Opposition on 11th September 1969 said: 
This Australian Science Council would be an executive and policy-formulating body responsible to the Minister, rather than an advisory body. It would have a permanent secretariat and a rotating membership consisting of persons drawn from the CSIRO, the Atomic Energy Commission and such other civil science and technological instrumentalities as might be established by a Labor Government, together with persons drawn from industry, universities and independent research institutes. We envisage that these nongovernmental representatives would be elected by and from the professional scientists in each principal field of the physical, social and applied sciences. All would held office for 3 year periods, and a proportion would be full-time members. We envisage also that there would be several continuing sub-committees of the Council, one for each major field of physical, social and applied science, e.g., biological sciences, behavioural sciences. The members of these committees would be elected by and from the appropriate group of professional scientists. 
This Council would be the central element in the 'policy' ann of the Minister's portfolio, but would not concern itself with the internal policy of 'operational' organisations such as CSIRO, which would remain, as now, directly responsible to the Minister. 
The Prime Minister's statement today announces proposals and policies that have been adopted in various other countries - members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - .10 years ago. The policy of advisory committees is now being seriously questioned in those countries. For example, recently Professor Martin Perl, of Stanford University examined the effectiveness of independent scientific advisory committees in the 
United States Government. He concluded that they are effective on limited technical questions. However, on broad technical questions - these include most of the crucial environmental questions - the scientific advisory system is ineffective. Environmental questions will in the future increasingly occupy the attention of governments and will require public funds for their investigation. Any effective science policy must recognise this fact. Labor believes that its proposals, formulated in 1965 and which we expect to implement after the election in November, will serve Australia better than will the advisory committee proposed in the Prime Minister's belated and inadequate announcement today. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What qualifications are required to apply for and be granted Australian citizenship by migrants from (a) British, (b) Asian, and (c) other countries? 
by leave- The statement we have just heard from the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  is another example of a carrot held out to the exploration industry of Australia to try to save this Government from defeat at the end of the year. It is another example of a piecemeal approach to an urgent national problem. The protection, preservation and control of our natural resources are far too important for this stop-gap approach. Time has long since passed when the introduction of a national energy and resources policy was required. State Ministers, academics and industrialists have repeatedly warned of the need for the encouragement and development of our natural gas, oil and mineral resources, as well as calling for the introduction of a national energy and resources policy and greater activity in exploration for minerals. The community generally is aware that our resources now are predominantly overseas owned and it is not sufficient for the needs of Australia for this Government to announce a few months before the introduction of a budget that is making this small taxation concession to the exploration industry in Australia. The Minister stated in his speech: 
The Government has recently considered representations for an amendment of provisions of the income tax law which authorise the allowance of tax deductions for capital expenditure on facilities used for the transport of minerals. Under the provisions, capital expenditure on national gas transmission pipelines and roads, railways or pipelines used for the transport of crude oil or other minerals is deductible for taxation purposes over a period of 10 years. 
This announced amendment is to allow those companies that have developed gas or oil pipelines or railways to depreciate their pipelines or their railways over a period longer than 10 years. It is interesting to read a speech made by the then  president  of the organisation,  Mr Eric  N. Avery, C.B.E., at the conference of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association held on 10th April this year.  Mr Avery  spoke about the need for the Association to criticise this Government on two or three occasions for its lack of incentive to the oil and mineral exploration industries. He said that, after the 1971-72 Budget, the APEA had found it necessary to make a strong submission to the Government along the lines that it felt that the present policy of the Government was creating disincentive in the exploration industry.  Mr Avery  said: 
Some of our members put it otherwise, namely that last year when presented with a logically argued case, Government took cover behind a Departmental Committee, who tendered advice which we have not seen, perhaps clothed in reasoning which we cannot rebut. A Senate inquiry has its critics, but it does have to publish a report and come into the open. Consideration by an interdepartmental committee we dislike because (a) you don't know who is on it, and (b) you cannot confront them face to face. Finally, y,ou do not know what they have said and thus cannot comment on what Cabinet will deliberate in their final report. 
The actual case submitted can be summarised as follows: Abolition of circles - granted; restoration of subsidy from 30 per cent to SO per cent on offshore drilling - refused; offshore geophysical - refused; onshore drilling - refused; onshore geophysical - granted; improvement of tax deductions - refused; cessation of tax harassment - ignored; depletion allowance - refused; and, proper price for crude - refused. 
So, when the Minister for Supply talks about having received representations for amendments to the Income Tax Act, I take it that this was one of the representations which was made. That was made shortly after the 1971-72 Budget and it has taken this Government this long even to allow for the increases in the tax allowances on capital expenditure for these proposed pipelines and other capital works. It is not sufficient for the Government which, according to the gallup polls and the various other reports, is in dire trouble, to introduce a piecemeal measure like this. As I said earlier, our resources are a national and important problem and the Opposition does not consider it nearly sufficient for the Government to handle the problem in this way. f should now like to quote from another speech that was made at the conference of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association.  Mr L.  W. Williams from the Bureau of Mineral Resources of the Department of National Development said: 
Of the various indicators which may be used to measure the level of exploration activity, the only one which showed an increase in 1971 over 1970 was the number of active onshore drilling rigs. The others - number of wells, exploration footage drilled and number of seismic crews - all showed a decrease. Exploration expenditure figures for 1971 are not yet available, but figure 1 shows that expenditure in 1970, both onshore and offshore, was about the same as for 1969. There was, however, a levelling out in total expenditure which had been showing a steady increase for the previous 3 years. I expect that when the 1971 figures are available they will show the first decrease for many years. 

 Mr Williams was talking about oil exploration and the statement that the Minister has just made deals with oil pipelines.  Mr Williams  went on to say: 
The total number of exploration wells fell by about 30 per cent, which was fairly evenly spread between offshore and onshore, and the exploration footage fell by about 20 per cent which was largely due to a drop of some 30 per cent in offshore footage. 
He said also: 
Exploration expenditure which I expect was down in 1971 compared with 1970 may rise again in 1972 but possibly not to the level of 1969 and 1970. When increases in the cost of exploration through increases in wages and cost of materials are taken into account,  this  level of expenditure does not give promise of a significant increase in activity. 
That statement indicating that last year there would be a fall in the amount of expenditure on exploration for oil, at a time when our oil resources are being used up, was made by a member of the Department of National Development - a government department. It is anticipated that by the end of the 1980s our oil resources will be providing only a small portion of our total annual requirement yet in this statement the Government is to provide only a small taxation concession for capital expenditure on pipelines and the other capital works indicated. It is time the Government looked at this problem more fully and comprehensively and that it decided that our natural resources were things. that should be preserved for the people of Australia. 
As I said in my opening remarks, this promised amendment is merely a carrot. The only recommendation of APEA made, after the last Budget which has been adopted is in relation to the taxation concession. I should like to give honourable members a quick summary of the oil and gas pipelines at the moment in Australia. This summary certainly is not complete because the Opposition received a copy of the Minister's statement only a couple of hours before the Minister made it. 1 am not in a position to give a full summary, but as far as I can recollect and, after having made one or two inquiries, there is the Roma gas pipeline in Queensland and the Moonie oil pipeline in Queensland, while in Bass Strait there are a number of pipelines which carry gas or oil. In South Australia there is the Cooper Basin and, perhaps the most important proposed pipeline at the moment is the one from Cooper Basin to Sydney, Newcastle and various other places in New South Wales. It is estimated that this pipeline will be in the vicinity of 820 miles long. I think that this proposed amendment to the taxation concessions provided is likely to do more in the near future for the encouragement of the building of gas pipelines than for any other type of capital work that is mentioned in Division 10AAA of the Income Tax Assessment Act. As natural gas seems to be the fuel that is coming into operation in Australia more extensively than other fuels and as it seems to be the fuel that has much more to gain from the measures outlined in the Minister's statement, let me say a few words about it. Natural gas is coming much more into prominence. In fact, it is estimated that within the next decade about 10 per cent of Australia's energy requirements will be met from this source. In view of recent discoveries we may even reach the 30 per cent proportion of the United States. 
In a paper which he presented to the Institute of Engineers in Australia in 1970 the late  Mr W.  H. Roberts, who was Secretary for Fuel and Power in Victoria, emphasised the need for overall planning both within his own State and on a national basis. The late  Mr Roberts  noted that there was a possibility of reducing the capital outlay on new electrical generating equipment if a definite portion of the energy market was allotted to natural gas. On the other hand, because of other factors, he stressed the need to make a very careful analysis before following such a course. The late  Mr Roberts  was not specific as to precisely how the various energy resources in Victoria should develop, but he was certain of the need for a co-ordinated approach. 
If we consider natural gas from a national viewpoint, the interstate and Commonwealth wide nature of this new source of energy becomes quite apparent. South Australia will almost certainly supply gas to New South Wales in a pipeline 820 miles long, to be constructed from gas fields in the north-east of the State to the Sydney area. The Mereenie gas fields in the Northern Territory and new fields being discovered in the north-west continental shelf area of Western Australia could well require interstate co-operation and agreement for efficient exploitation. 
In a paper presented to the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science dated 9th September 1971,  Mr W.  W. Pettingell, General Manager of the Australian Gas Light Co. and  Mr L.  A. Hokin the Technical Sales Manager, put forward the proposition that as industry becomes more and more dependent upon natural gas it will be necessary to add flexibility to the supply system by linking the major capita] cities in a grid pipeline system. There seems to be no consideration given to these aspects of the matter at all. One little concession is to be given to the exploration industry in Australia, and, more particularly, to the people connected with natural gas at the moment, in order to get them to put in pipelines. The Minister has given no indication of the amount of deductions claimed by the people who constructed the pipelines that are already in operation. He has given no indication as to whether the Government, in allowing taxation concessions on these sorts of capital works, intends to have any say in whether private companies or State governments will run the pipelines side by side, or a few miles apart, when one pipeline could satisfy the requirements of the district which it will serve. 

 Mr Pettingell and  Mr Hokin  have suggested that we may see the time when there will be a grid serving capital cities. It is time that this Government had a look at a national policy for our energy resources and mineral resources, lt will be too late to consider these matters when these pipelines have been constructed - perhaps constructed uneconomically and unnecessarily or even too early, before the extent of the oil field or the gas field has been properly assessed. 
In making this statement today the Government has shown, once again, its fear that at the election at the end of this year it will be defeated. Only a few. days ago the Government made a statement on the establishment of an advisory committee on science and technology. The Labor Party espoused the establishment of such a committee back in 196S, and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has referred to it on a number of occasions. The Government has stolen that policy now. For heaven's sake, in the interests of Australia and our resources, I ask the Government to steal another Australian Labor Party policy and introduce, as quickly as possible, a national policy on energy and natural resources. When a Bill to introduce the proposals outlined in the Minister's statement is presented to the House a number of honourable members on the Opposition side will criticise it and will make constructive suggestions to aid the exploration and development of mineral and energy resources in Australia. The Opposition accepts the statement, but certainly does not applaud it. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  has announced that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has agreed with his suggestion. I also agree with it. As the Parliament heads towards the end of a session I think there is a need to extend the hours of sitting. Although on previous occasions the Leader of the House has given an assurance that we will not sit through till 2 or 3 a.m., on most occasions it has happened. The Minister has stated that it will not happen on this occasion. 
The Minister qualifies it by saying that he hopes not. I am prepared to bet London to a brick - to use a well known saying - that it will happen. I do not like the Parliament sitting into the early hours of the morning. Whilst it can be said that perhaps many of us have made arrangements after 25th May, the business of this place is more important than a lot of the arrangements that we have made. 
I suggest that it is appropriate that we should sit for a few extra days rather than sit until the early hours of the morning. The Minister points out to me that he has not moved for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. Tha Minister knows as well as I do that that is only a matter of putting a motion on (he notice paper and it can be done. It is not a difficult task to abolish the 11 o'clock rule and allow new business to commence after that hour. The Opposition agrees with the extension of the sittings on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in order to try to get through Government business. But I would suggest to the Minister that as Leader of the House and as the person controlling the list of speakers on the Government side he should suggest to such speakers that they restrict themselves to debates on legislation before the House and not raise any red herrings because it is an election year. Supporters of the Government are prone to introduce motions that create a furore in the House and take up the debating time which should be devoted to matters of national importance. I think that the Opposition is prepared to co-operate with the Leader of the House but if co-operation is not forthcoming from Government supporters I am afraid that we will have no course but to withdraw the co-operation that we are now prepared to extend. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say what percentage of people who wear visual aids, spectacles, contact lenses, etc., have them prescribed by (a) ophthalmologists and (b) optometrists. 
asked the Minister for Sup  ply, upon notice: 
Have any investigations or trials been carried out by any Government Department on hydrofield hulls designed by  Mr L.  E. Field of Queensland. 
If so, 
what trials and investigations have been undertaken and with what results and 
has any decision been taken onthe use of these ships for defence purposes. 
I always listen with a great deal of interest to the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull).  He always entertains and amuses me. This evening he did both of these things again. He started his speech by saying that the only industry that had been mentioned in this debate so far was secondary industry. I would have thought that the honourable member had been in the House long enough to know that only secondary industries go before the Tariff Board. Not one primary industry has ever been before the Tariff Board to see whether it is economic and efficient. Not one primary industry has ever had to prove that it is economic and efficient before getting a handout from the Government. I suggest to the honourable member for Mallee that he would be well advised to realise that no longer is this country of ours living off the sheep's back. The primary industries are no longer nearly as important to the Aus tralian economy as they were. If the honourable member wants to maintain country areas he will have to maintain them by decentralised secondary industries. So when the honourable member gets up and espouses primary industries, as he did in the last few minutes of his speech, I suggest that he should bring his thinking up to date and realise that it is secondary industries now on which our economy relies. There were years when primary industries were absolutely important to Australia. But as the years go on they are getting less and less important. The Australian Country Party above all should realise that. It will have to realise that country areas in the future will rely a lot on secondary industries and other development coming into those areas in order to keep the working population there. 
Having said that, let me now concentrate on the Bill before us. This Bill proposes to add  2  members to the Tariff Board for the specific purpose of expediting the review of tariffs which the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said he commenced last year. I do not think that the Minister should claim all the credit in this way because his predecessor, when he was Minister, despite the things some people said about him, had the review under way for a number of years. It seems to me that the review was effectively started when  Sir John  McEwen referred to the Tariff Board such wide and important industry areas as industrial chemicals, motor vehicles, farm machinery and equipment and mining and metallurgical machinery, to name just a few. What the present Minister did last year was to step it up a bit.  1  suggest that he should give some credit to  Sir John  McEwen who, after all, did a great deal towards encouraging Australian industry. It was quite obvious after listening to the honourable member for Mallee that often he was fighting against members in the Australian Country Party and against other Government supporters. 
In the last few months, the Government has found it convenient to pretend that it had made a great decision to put a progressive tariff review in hand and to pretend that the review started with the  10  references announced by the present Minister for Trade and Industry. The Government had to play that game; it had to do something dramatic in the area of tariffs because it had been under pressure from all sections of the community and did not know quite what to do. I do not think that the Government yet knows what to do. We have had the Tariff Board taking the lead in laying down a tariff policy to which manufacturers object. Manufacturers have been demanding that the Government outline a positive and understandable tariff policy, but the Government has failed to do this. The Government has a real dilemma before it. If it said that its policy was the same as the policy of the Tariff Board, the manufacturers would quickly withdraw the support which they give to the LiberalCountry Party Government. The support that the Government receives from the manufacturing industries would no longer exist. So, the Government could not say that. 
If the Government had declared that it had a policy different from that of the Tariff Board, it would have caused whiteheat anger among the rural industry supporters and again, I think, the honourable member for Mallee demonstrated this during his speech. Until now, Country Party supporters have been delighted with the policy of the Tariff Board because they believe that eventually, some Australian industries will be closed down and that this will enable the rural industry to buy imported goods at much cheaper rates. Again, the honourable member for Mallee underlined that point. He suggested a price support scheme so that the primary industries could buy their goods at a cheaper rate. However, members of the Country Party do not take much notice of what the closing down of secondary industries in Australia would do to the rest of Australia. What we have before us is a government without a policy. The situation would be hilarious if it were not so damaging and wasteful for Australia. It is a government that cannot have a tariff policy for fear of offending one or other of the 2 sides. So, the Government had to keep on saying that its tariff policy was unchanged and that it would always make the final decisions. 
The present Minister for Trade and Industry even made a statement to the Parliament on 28th April last year which called on the Tariff Board to give in its reports all the information needed by the 
Government to make its own decisions. The Minister referred to that statement in his second reading speech in a way which could make one believe that the Tariff Board took some notice of his call in April last year and that the Board now gives sufficient information in its reports to enable the reader to understand the basis for the Board's recommendations and, more particularly, what effect they will have on industry. The Minister suggested that the reports enable the Government to take a decision different from the Board's recommendation should it see reason for doing so, yet tonight we heard the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  - a nonprotectionist - saying that the Government is not giving sufficient information to the House in order to allow him to follow the decisions that have been taken. 
I ask the Minister to demonstrate in which way the Tariff Board has taken notice of his clarion call of 28th April last year. Whatever his reason for wanting to make it appear that the Tariff Board now is giving the information for which he asked, I invite him to take any Tariff Board report that has been released in the last 6 months and to explain to this House the grounds on which the Tariff Board made its recommendations and the effect on the industry concerned when the recommendations were accepted, and to point to the fund of information given in the report which would enable the Government to take its own decision. The Opposition has been steadily opposing tariff Bills for some time because Tariff Board reports do not explain how the recommendation was arrived at and what effect it is likely to have. To pretend that members of this House are able, after reading a Tariff Board report, to make a personal decision on whether the proposed action is right or wrong, good or bad, is just plain nonsense. Of course, some members have no trouble with this and I think that the honourable member for Mallee is one of those members. Several honourable members have a firm and unwavering formula for dealing with these matters. If a report reduces duties it is a wonderful report and the Tariff Board and the Government deserve congratulations. If it increases duties, the industry which receives the increase in duties is condemned. I ask the Minister to take note, if be does not know already, that the Tariff Board has ignored his call of 28th April last year for reports that we could understand. I ask him to do something about it. 
To come back to the subject of the 2 additional members who will be appointed after the passage of this Bill, I fear that the results to be expected from this addition to the Board, while they no doubt will do something to increase its output, have been somewhat overstated by the Minister. It can be expected that more public inquiries will be able to be held in a given time. However, as 1 understand it, the public inquiry is simply the tip of the iceberg and the real work - the collation, the analysing, the researching and so on - is carried out by the staff of the Board. In fact, if we considered the build-up of econometricians on the staff of the Board and looked at the sort of thing being turned out by this staff, we could ask whether the Board members themselves are of any use at all. I would doubt that many members of the Tariff Board or of this House really understand econometric decision making and, if the Board's recommendations are being based on these decisions - I understand they are - I do not know how Board members can do anything more than simply sign reports which are wholly and solely the work of the staff of the Board. The Board members hear an inquiry and, after the inquiry, move on to another inquiry. While they are hearing that inquiry, the staff of the Board are writing the report for them. The report then would be put before the Board members, perhaps in its concluded stages, and the Board members certainly would not have the time to query the report that is before them. lt is only common sense that the rate of progress of the Tariff Board depends on the performance of the staff of the Tariff Board and not so much on the number of members of the Board. This demands that the best possible use be made of the staff and that their methods and procedures be economical and efficient. I have said before in this House that there is evidence that this is not so. Only a couple of weeks ago, a member of the Press who takes an interest in these matters seemed to have obtained some informtation which bears out what I have been saying. It has become commonplace for some people to berate the 
Minister for not giving the Tariff Board enough staff. His predecessor suffered a lot of abuse on the same grounds. This criticism has been made by people who obviously have not examined the situation. 
The newspaper article which I have in mind and which was in the 'National Times' of 1st May, said that the staff of the Tariff Board had given an output of 1.33 reports per staff member in 1959-60 and that this had dropped to 0.28 reports per staff member in 1970-71. This seems to bear out what I previously drew attention to in the debate last year on the Bill which added a ninth member to the Tariff Board. I pointed out that in 1950-51, with a staff of approximately 15, the Board produced 38 reports. In 1962-63, with a staff of about 60, it produced 58 reports. 
In 1970-71, with a staff of about 160 and with part-time assistance of academics from Monash University and other universities, the Board produced the astounding total of 25 reports. I note that the newspaper report said that the figures for output of reports per Tariff Board staff member had been compiled after taking into account the differences in time and complexity as between one inquiry and another. I repeat those figures: 1.33 reports per staff member in 1959-60 and 0.28 reports per staff member in 1970-71. In other words, the Board's staff in 1970-71 was giving one-fifth of the output per staff member that it was giving in 1959-60. So the answer is not that tariff inquiries are getting more complex and reports are getting bigger. 
I understand that the Board's staff is now around 200. I put to the Minister that he has a responsibility to find out how the Tariff Board staff is being used. It is quite obvious that until it is being used economically and efficiently - and they are favourite words of the Tariff Board - he is unlikely to obtain much of an acceleration of the progressive tariff review, no matter how many members he adds to the Tariff Board. I repeat that the key to the situation is in the way the Tariff Board staff is doing its work, and not in the speeding up of public inquiries. The speeding up of public inquiries is merely the face-saving formula that appears before the public. As I said earlier, the analysing, the collating and the investigating are all done by the Tariff Board staff. 
In the January-February 1971 issue of the Australian Industries Development Association bulletin a plea was made for the development of tariff policy criteria and guidelines. I quote the article here in full for the simple reason that time after time in this House the manufacturing industries and their representatives are painted as the big, bad bogeyman against primary industry and our community generally. In this article its author wrote: 
The Australian Industries Development Association supports the sound development of Australian industry. It is opposed to any action on the part of government or industry which condones inefficiency or which imposes an unjustifiable burden on the economy. 
In the area of tariff protection, AIDA supports a policy of protection for economic and efficient industry, in the measure necessary to attain sound industrial growth at the fastest rate compatible with economic stability. 
AIDA believes that a systematic review of the tariffs applicable to industries or to classes of manufactures, particularly where protection has not been reviewed for many years or perhaps not at any time, is in the interests of sound industry development. 
AIDA does not support a policy of protection for all who choose to produce. Protection should not be given when the costs seriously outweigh the benefits, and when the withholding of protection would not impair achievement of our major national economic objectives. 
Protection must be selective, but selective in a way that aids the achievement of our major national economic objectives of a high rate of economic growth with rapid population increase, full employment, a rising standard of living, external viability and stability in costs and prices. 
Any basis of selectivity that leaves those objectives to chance, that is not supported by adequate knowledge of the likely result, is unacceptable. 
Decisions on protection must be made by the government of the day, and approved by the Parliament, with a knowledge of all the facts of the particular issue. They are decisions which cannot and must not be delegated, or left by default or by imperfections in the machinery of tariff making, to a body other than the Government. 
Few people, if any, could disagree with that declaration. The author goes to to suggest a set of guidelines which would have to be followed by the Tariff Board in its inquiries. Some of the guidelines seek to have information published on the value of the capital invested in the industry, the extent to which local raw materials are used, the extent of overseas ownership and control of the industry, the import replacement value of the industry, the record in export and the future prospects for export, and the num bers directly employed in the industry. There are 26 points in the suggested guidelines, and it seems to me that any government would require information on them before being in a position to make a sound decision on whether the industry deserved protection, and the rate of that protection. 
It should be remembered that manufacturing industry employs 26 per cent of the work force. It provides 26 per cent of the gross national product and about 20 per cent of exports. Using an arbitrary figure of 500 employees to distinguish between smaller and larger establishments, the statistics for 1967-68 show that of factories with under 500 employees there are 62,671, with a total of 1.013,117 employees. Of factories with more than 500 employees there are 283 with a total of 326.428 employees, giving a total figure of 1,339,545 employees in 62,954 factories. 

 Sir WINTON TURNBULL (Mallee)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I apologise to the honourable member for Mallee for having misunderstood what he said. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
asked the Minister  for  Repatriation, upon notice: 
When was the last increase granted in '.he general rate of war pension. 
How many ex-servicemen and women receive the general rate war pension. 
Why has the general rate of war pension been allowed to remain static for so long. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
When will the area management system for telecommunication services in the Post Office come into operation. 
How many area managers have been, or are in the process of being, appointed. 
What office space has been leased or provided for area managers and where is it located. 
The Industrial Research and Development Grants Act of 1967 has been almost completely rewritten by the Bill that is being debated. However, the industrial strategy that it still reflects is open to severe criticism. A variety of motives for the Government's move to introduce the Industrial Research and Development Grants scheme in 1967 were mentioned by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  when as Minister for Social Services he proposed the second reading of the Bill in this House in May 1967. The basic motive was a desire to encourage increased industrial research and development in Australian manufacturing and mining industries. This motive was related by the Minister to the Government's aim to ensure continued economic growth and full employment as well as to achieve and maintain national security. The Minister expressed concern about the dependence of Australian industry on technology developed overseas and in particular about the consequences to Australia's ability to produce goods to compete with imported products. It was hoped that greater dependence on Australian technology would earn this nation additional foreign exchange. An expected benefit would be less reliance by Australia on sources overseas for its defence equipment requirements. Other motives for the scheme that were mentioned in passing included the building up of a pool of technically skilled manpower and a reduction in the drift overseas of top Australian graduates. The Act stated its object simply as to encourage increased industrial research and development in Australia. However, the object of the legislation has now been amended to read: 'To promote the development of Australian industry by encouraging increased industrial research and development in Australia.' This amendment suggests to me that the Government is not entirely satisfied that the original Act achieved the success that was expected of it. It would, therefore, have been anticipated that the strategy of the Act would have been altered. Except in a few minor instances this has not been done. The Opposition believes that, whilst these amendments will improve the Act other major amendments still need to be made. I hope to substantiate this belief during my speech. 
The provisions whereby grants can be made to manufacturing and mining concerns in respect of industrial research and development they are carrying out are complicated. The eligible expenditure of a company for research and development, where it does not exceed $50,000, can attract a maximum grant of 50 per cent of that amount. From July 1970to July 1972 the maximum grant has been set at 35 per cent. It is increased in this Bill to 50 per cent for the financial year 1972-73. Where eligible expenditure exceeds $50,000 a grant may be made which does not exceed 50 per cent of that additional amount. The first mentioned type of grant is usually referred to as being a general grant. The second is usually called a selective grant. Selective grants are made subject to the discretion of the Minister and the Australian 
Industrial Research and Development Grants Board (AIRDGB) created by the Act. Selective grants are made according to the ability of the research and development to contribute to the attainment of certain objectives outlined in the Act. They are: 
the development and use of Australian physical resources, 
the expansion of exports, 
import saving and improvement of the ability of Australian products to compete wilh imported products, 
the improvement of productivity and reduction of costs in Australian industry, 
the development of the Australian economy in a manner conducive to the defence of the Commonwealth. 
What constitutes eligible industrial research and development expenditure is set out principally in section 25 of the Act and this section has been widened in the Bill before us. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  spelt out the expenditure now eligible in his second reading speech. These amendments apparently are designed to increase the amount of expenditure of smaller fully Australian companies on industrial research and development. However, a selective grant can still only be made where eligible research and development expenditure of the applicant company exceeds $50,000, and where it appears that the subject of the industrial research would aid in the achievement of certain national objectives. The implication of this provision is that, for amounts of eligible research and development expenditure of less than $50,000, the achievement of these objectives is not important because, irrespective of the nature of the subject of research a general grant will be awarded where there is an increase in research and development expenditures, and other conditions are fulfilled. In effect the Act means that especially important work, according to its own terms, will be given help only if increased expenditure on it exceeds $50,000. Work which is important according to the criteria of the Act will attract the same amount of grant as work funded to the same increased amounts but which is not important in such terms. 
Two criticisms follow from this. Firstly, in this aspect, the Act reflects little consideration in as much as it does not discriminate between what is important industrial research and what is unimportant, so long as the increased expenditure on that research does not exceed $50,000. Secondly, the Act discriminates against highly innovative but under-capitalised companies. Consider the case in which a small sciencebased firm carries out research on which it expends $20,000, $10,000 of which is counted as eligible research and development expenditure under the Act. The company is therefore eligible to apply for a grant and can receive a maximum of $5,000. If the research that that company is carrying out has potentially valuable benefits for Australia, no note may be taken of the fact under the Act. The maximum grant payable is $5,000 irrespective of whether the research produces a valuable result or a useless one, from the viewpoint of the achievement of Australian objectives that are written into the Act. If that company has such an invention but is not able to proceed further because it cannot attract private capital the project will lapse. Thus the company has no incentive in the first place to perform research in that area. The argument that this will always happen in any system of industrial research grants is incorrect. Canada, for example, has operated several selective grant schemes with the motive of ensuring that no worthwhile research and development projects are abandoned for lack of financial support. These are supplementary to the general incentive provided under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act of Canada. Thus in Canada it is recognised that incentives for industrial research and development must include selective incentives to reinforce general grants. This, the Australian legislation outstandingly fails to do. 
Yet another criticism follows from this last. Under the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act, the Board is empowered, at its discretion, to make selective grants for any of the purposes mentioned in section 27. Clearly the Board has been very narrow in its interpretation of these provisions and has in the past tended, in its own words, to pay particular attention to 'the potential for export and for reduction of imports', and import saving generally. This of course is an important objective, but by implication it demonstrates the generally narrow framework in which the Act was conceived. As 
Australian economist Tisdell points out, the objective of a favourable balance of payments is not necessarily achieved in an optimum way by simply favouring exporting companies or import-saving companies because industries which are involved directly in neither export nor import may nonetheless have a significant influence on balance of payments. Tisdell quotes as examples sulphuric acid, which is vital to fertiliser production and other processes the products of which enter exports, and caustic soda, which is important in alumina production. I ask: Is Industrial research construed to be an activity which simply increases profits or creates a favourable balance of payments, or does industrial research also include the development of processes to improve the quality of life? The Act seems to me to reflect the former philosophy. 
The question as to which companies have benefited the most and the least under the 
Act is of some interest. The table that I have in my hand shows the relationship between grant-size group, and the extent to which that group benefited relative to other grant-size groups. The relationship appears as follows: Over the 3 years of complete operation of the Act, the approximately 50 per cent of companies that received a grant of $10,000 or less, received about 10 per cent of the value of all grants disbursed under the scheme. By contrast, over that period fewer than one per cent of all companies receiving moneys under the scheme obtained more than 13 per cent of such moneys. I ask leave of the House to incorporate the table in Hansard, and I apologise to the Minister for not having shown it to him before hand. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has he or any member of his staff undertaken to investigate serious allegations made by  Mr Jedlin  of Crest Mills, Sydney, regarding trafficking in black market wheat and difficulties in the way of exporting grain in bulk? Is he aware that Crest Mills has been ordered by the New South Wales Maritime Services Board to quit its water frontage property on Monday despite its having contracts to provide binding needed for the manufacture of 220,000 sausages in Tasmania, soya products for Queensland and flour for the Northern Territory? Will he ask his office to move urgently to help the mills continue in operation until the allegations by  Mr Jedlin  are fully investigated? 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many legally qualified medical practitioners specialising in ophthalmology are there in (a) Australia and (b) each State. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the reasons for the non-payment of a Commonwealth medical benefit to members of medical funds who are prescribed visual aids by either legally qualified medical practitioners or optometrists. 
Will the Government consider amending the National Health Act to provide for payment of both Commonwealth and fund benefit when visual aids are prescribed by a medical practitioner or optometrist. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many legally qualified optometrists are there in (a) Australia, and (b) each State. 
This information is not available in the Department of Health. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which medical benefit funds in Australia pay fund benefits for spectacles prescribed by (a) ophthalmologists only, (b) optometrists only and (c) both ophthalmologists and optometrists. 
The Australian Labor Party joins with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his wish that the people of Australia shall have happiness and a happy nation. The people of Australia will get the opportunity to have that happiness as soon as the Prime Minister makes up his mind to have this year's elections. I must say that the Prime Minister surprised me this evening. It is obvious that his public relations men have been working on him very hard. The usual feline nastiness of the Prime Minister did not show out at all this evening. 1 really expected him to do what some of his senior Ministers have done during the course of this Budget debate, namely to attack personally, violently and without due regard to the facts the Leader of tha Australian Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam). 
Apparently the Government has decided that there is only one way in which it can win the next election, and that is by destroying Whitlam. During the course of the Budget debate I have seen senior Ministers of the Government completely demean themselves in bitter, biased personal attacks upon the Leader of the Labor Party. I do not think that the Leader of the Labor Party or any member of the Labor Party needs take too much notice of these attacks because when one appreciates how the present Prime Minister of Australia became Prime Minister of Australia, one must realise that he does not enjoy the confidence of his own Liberal Party members, nor the confidence of the members of the Australian Country Party. 
One does not need to have a very long memory to recall that the previous Leader of the Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, after the death of  Mr Harold  Holt, made a statement in which he said: 'I will not serve under McMahon. I cannot trust him*. Then, after a short period, while the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was Prime Minister of the country, the present Prime Minister encouraged, or at least remained silent, while members of the Liberal Party in cahoots with certain sections of the commercial mass media organised a sustained and violent attack upon the right honourable member for Higgins which culminated in a revolt in the Liberal Party. The votes being equal, the right honourable member for Higgins used his own vote against himself in order to give an opportunity to the Liberal Party to change its leadership. This decision was made by something like 66 members of the 
Parliament without the present Prime Minister ever having had to face an election. 
The same thing applies to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  He inherited the position he now occupies - the position of  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia and Leader of the Country Party. Neither the present Prime Minister nor the  Deputy  Prime Minister has received the mandate of the people to be in charge of the government of Australia. I refer now to the figures for the 1969 House of Representatives election and the 1970 Senate election that were contested in both instances with the present Leader of the Labor Party leading the Labor Party and with different leadership of the Liberal Party and the Country Party. In the 1969 House of Representatives election, under the leadership of the present Leader of the Labor Party Labor received 2,870,792 votes, or 46.95 per cent, of all formal votes and it won 59- seats. The Liberal Party, under the leadership of the right honourable member for Higgins, received 2,126,987 votes, or 34.79 per cent of the formal votes cast, and it won 46 seats. The Country Party, under the leadership of  Sir John  ' McEwen,. received 523,342 votes, or 8.56 per cent of the formal votes cast, and it won 20 seats. The total Liberal-Country Party vote was' 2,650,329 votes  -  43.35 per cent- of the formal votes cast. The Labor Party received 2,870,792 votes  -  46.95 per cent of the formal votes cast. In other words, the Labor Party gained 220,463 .votes more than the combined votes of the Liberal-Country Party and .3^.6 per cent more of the formal votes cast yet, it won 7 seats fewer. 
Let us face- this next election on the Budget that has been produced - a completely predictable Budget. It is: a Budget which almost every political commentator and political writer judged to be the type of Budget that would be brought down, for 2 reasons: first, it was an election year and, secondly, inflation was riot in the community. Unemployment was rising each month. The economy needed a fillip and the reputation and popularity of the Government also needed a fillip. But this stagnant Government would not have taken action had it not been an election year. As far back as May members of the Labor Party and political commentators were predicting that there would be across the board increases in social services and repatriation benefits, that there would be reductions in taxation, that the education commitment of the Commonwealth would be increased, that there would be improvements in the national health scheme, that there would be an increase in home savings grants, that there would be a few incentives to primary and secondary industries and a sop or 2 to the Aborigines. Had it not been for the fact that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  came out with a statement about the easing of the means test perhaps that would not have happened. It was only this conflict between the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for Social Services - a public conflict - that brought about an easing of the means test with the promise of its abolition in 3 years. 
To most members of the Labor Party and to most members of the community the only real surprise in the Budget is the fact that families have been virtually neglected. It is in this area that assistance is greatly needed. Earlier today the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  devoted a certain portion of his speech to family allowances and child endowment. He traced the history of child endowment since it was introduced by a Labor government in New South Wales in 1927. Families have been neglected and families are the life blood of the community. They are the future generation. Children are needed and children should be given the happiness that the Prime Minister said that all Australians deserve. It will be too late, although I predict that something will be proposed by the Government in its policy speech, for some families in the community if they have to wait much longer for assistance. Many families in Australia today live close to the poverty line. Honourable members can take it from me that the Labor Party as a government will certainly see that family allowances are increased substantially. 
This Budget is another example of Liberal chicanery. It is a good election Budget but it was a predictable one. But it is also a shallow document. It introduces no new approaches to any major issue. Any new innovations that appear in the Budget have been policies that have been espoused by the Labor Party and other parties for a long time. I admit that some of the things that have been introduced have also been espoused by backbench members of the Liberal and Country Parties. But there are no really new policies in this Budget. It is a propping up of the present system. It is as it is, as I said earlier, because it is election year and because the economy of the country is running down rapidly. 
The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition has far more depth in it than the whole Budget. It is an amendment which looks to the future. In his speech earlier, the Prime Minister said that the Labor Party has espoused no new ideas during the course of this debate. But for the last 6 years representatives of the Labor Party have been attempting wherever possible to put forward new ideas on health, decentralisation, urban development, the need for a national fuel and energy policy, education, the need for industrial research and development and the need for a science policy. Some of these ideas that have been propagated by members of the Labor Party have been taken up by this Government. Nobody in his right mind, in a Budget speech just prior to an election, would expect the Labor Party to telegraph its punches as to what will be its policy speech at the election. But all members of the Labor Party believe that Labor's policies, as a government, will give new ideas, new approaches and new innovations. Labor will not only do things for Australia and Australians but it will also take a major role in the Pacific region. This is a status quo Budget - a propping up of the conservative ideas of this present Government. This, to me, marks the Budget as a failure. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  before the suspension of sitting I was talking about the Budget. I admit that there are many good things in the Budget. The Prime Minister and the Government have placed a lot of reliance on the fact that the Budget has introduced into Australia policies which will give concessions to sections of the community that deserve them. They place a great deal of reliance on the Budget achieving electoral victory at the end of this year. The Prime Minister also admitted last night that he was praying for an electoral victory. I acknowledge his right to pray. I also try to pray. But if I can give him a little bit of advice, I would think that after the election his prayer might go something like this: 'Mea culpa, mea culpa, mca maximum culpa'; a rough translation of which would be: 'Through my fault, through my fault, through my most grievous fault'. 
I turn now to a matter which has not been mentioned in the Budget and which has been rarely mentioned by this Government in the 23 years that it has been in office. I refer to the urgent need for a national fuel and energy policy. The Australian Labor Party suggests that the basic objectives of a national fuel policy should be to ensure, firstly, maximum long term benefits to Australia by the optimum utilisation of energy resources and, secondly, adequacy of resources for the country's future needs. The vital role which fuel and power play in national prosperity calls for positive forward - thinking and a coordinated policy on a national basis. 
Some of the important reasons why this question has to be tackled with competence and foresight in Australia are as follows: Firstly, the country is large and any energy resources are unevenly distributed geographically; secondly, primary energy consumption is increasing at an annual rate of 6 per cent compared with about 3 per cent for the rest of the world; thirdly, electricity consumption is increasing at the rate of about 9.S per cent per annum compared with 5 or 6 per cent for the rest of the world; fourthly, a high rate of industrialisation and development is taking place in Australia; fifthly, a major exporter of energy resources needs to review periodically its resources and pattern of use to ensure that adequate reserves are retained for domestic use; sixthly, State fuel resources and energy consumption can no longer be considered in isolation - for example, natural gas and proposed interstate transmission lines; seventhly, the environmental and pollution aspects of fuel and energy production and utilisation are becoming of much greater concern to governments and communities; and eighthly, economic benefits may accrue to the nation by control of energy usage patterns - for example, incentives to reduce heavy fuel oil imports. 
State governments cannot be expected, of their own volition, to adopt the necessary national approach to a fuel policy. Private enterprise certainly would not do this. Only the Commonwealth Government could be expected to be interested and effective in this area. The elements which should go into the formulation of a national fuel policy are extremely complex and cover both socio-political and technical matters. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the private contractor responsible for the installation of the Seaford, Victoria, telephone exchange did not complete the work within the period specified in the contract. 
If so, did this delay seriously inconvenience telephone subscribers and the Australian Post Office. 
Was any penalty clause in the contract invoked against the contractor; if not, why not. 
If a penalty was invoked, what was it. 
I congratulate the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for continuing the restrictions on the importation of knitted shirts and outer garments and woven shirts. However, I rise tonight to complain violently about the fact that a decision such as this could be announced in the Parliament on Thursday, 31st August, when I have had on the notice paper since 16th May 3 questions on this subject. Question No. 5824 standing in my name and addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry reads: 
When win the quantitative restrictions on the import of (a) knitted shirts and outergarments and (b) woven shirts, etc., be cancelled and the duties recommended by the Tariff Board brought into operation? 
Has the Government a clear idea of the effects on this industry if and when the Tariff Board's recommendations are implemented; if so, what are the anticipated results? 
Do the anticipated results merit a further extension of quantative restrictions? 
Question No. 5825 standing in my name also is asked of the Minister for Trade and Industry, and it reads: 
What is the potential threat to the (a) knitted shirts and outergarments and (b) woven shirts, etc., industry from imports from the People's Republic of China and other state-controlled economies once the import controls of these goods are removed? 
What action does the Government contemplate to prevent the flooding of the Australian market with these goods from low-cost countries? 
Question No. 5826 standing in my name and addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry reads: 
With which overseas countries is Australia currently negotiating voluntary export restraint agreements on (a) knitted shirts and outergarments and (b) woven shirts, etc.? 
What stage has been reached in the negotiations and is the Government satisfied with the progress made? 
Will any agreements reached achieve the desired protection for the Australian industries involved? 
Those 3 questions have been on the notice paper since 16th May. It is an insult to this Parliament and, in particular, it is an insult to me that the  Deputy  Prime Minister could come into this House last Thursday and make a statement which virtually answered those questions without giving sufficient information to the House as to why this decision was taken. Let us look at the Press statement released by the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 24th August 1972 - 7 days before the  Deputy  Prime Minister came into the House and made this statement on woven shirts and outer garments. The Press statement released on 24th August is headed 'Textile Industry Deputation' and is in these terms: 
The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister in Canberra today met a deputation from the Australian Textile Apparel and Related Industries Conference. 
The deputation was led by  Sir Robert  Webster,  Chairman  of Directors of Bradmill Industries Ltd and  President  of the Australian Textile Apparel and Related Industries Conference. Other members of the deputation included  Mr Warren  Adcock, representing the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers;  Mr John  Brady,  Chairman  of Crestknit Ltd, representing the Australian Knitting Industries Council; and  Mr A.  J. Burgess, Director of the Textile Council of Australia. 
The Deputation outlined some of the difficulties confronting the textile and apparel industries and there was a full and thorough discussion. The Ministers assured the delegation that the Government was looking closely and sympathetically at the problems of these industries. 
The Prime Minister repeated the views he had expressed in Adelaide last month when he emphasised the Government's recognition of the important place occupied by manufacturing industries in the Australian economy. The Prime Minister referred again to the fact that the Government was negotiating for voluntary restraint arrangements with low cost overseas countries in order to ensure protection for Australian manufacturers of textiles and apparel. The Prime Minister also commended the efforts of  Sir Robert  Webster and the industry itself in recent negotiations to bring about voluntary restraints by countries exporting to Australia. 
That Press statement was released on 24th August after a deputation had been received by the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. On 31st August the  Deputy  Prime Minister came into the House and made a statement, yet since 16th May I have had those 3 questions on the notice paper asking for specific information relating to this topic. The Minister has completely ignored those questions and they have remained unanswered. When the pressure is put on the Government by  Sir Robert  Webster and others it falls over itself. The Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister then can make a decision in 7 days. I asked how successful the negotiations were with these low-cost countries, but the Minister could not answer my question. Yet on 24th August he received this deputation and on 31st August he brought into the House all the documents necessary to answer the questions I asked him in May of this year. I do not like it. It seems to me to be another example of this Government not being able to run its own affairs and not being able to plan the economy in any way. 
Manufacturing industries in Australia are an important part of our economy. We cannot allow an industry such as the textile industry, and in this instance the knitted shirts and outer garments and woven shirts industry, to be kept on a hook as long as they have been kept on a hook. It was in about May 1971 that the Minister for Trade and Industry announced the result of the Tariff Board inquiry, namely, that the quantitative restrictions would remain until March 1973 which is when they are due to come off. In that speech the Minister said: 
Meanwhile the Government proposes to initiate negotiations with those low-cost countries which are the major suppliers of the products covered by these reports. These negotiations will be aimed at arriving at mutually acceptable arrangements which will allow these countries both reasonable access and growth prospects for their exports but also enable the more efficient sectors of the Australian woven shirts and knitted outergarments industries to continue to operate on a viable basis. 
The hammer was about to fall in 1971 and the chopper is about to fall in March 1973. I asked those 3 questions which I have mentioned in May of this year. I asked them because certain people in the textile industry in my electorate had told me that they were in trouble. They told me that already at that stage representatives of the retail houses in Australia were over in these low-cost countries buying up stocks for next year. I could not get an answer to my questions and I still have not received an answer to those questions. This Government is treating the Parliament in the way it is treating the people of Australia: It does not know where it is going. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What knowledge did he, his Department or the Government possess of negotiations between Magellan Petroleum (Australia) Ltd and the United States of America based Pacific Lighting Corporation for the development of the Palm Valley natural gas field before the announcement was made of an agreement on a project to supply major quantities of natural gas to Central and Southern California. 
Has Magellan Petroleum (Australia) Ltd yet submitted to his Department or the Government all details of the agreement. 
If so, what are the details. 
Has the Government sufficient information on our natural gas reserves to allow approval of this agreement and the export of major quantities of natural gas without detriment to Australia's future requirements. 
During this year 2 Ministers of the Government have had exceptionally good luck. One is the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the other is the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  Both of them have been able to bring down 2 increases in social service and repatriation benefits. So they deserve to be congratulated. But. mingled with the congratulations is a degree of suspicion, because 1972 is an election year and it has been obvious, since the rebellion occurred in the Liberal Party and the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  took over, that the Government was in trouble and that things had to be done. It is an accepted political fact that during election years increases are granted across the board in social service and repatriation benefits. This has happened this year. But, despite 2 attempts to bring repatriation benefits up to standard, they still have not reached the rate that has been advocated by the Australian Labor Party over a number of years or the rate that has been asked for by the Returned Services League over a number of years. 
As my Deputy Leader reminds me, they have not reached the rate of repatriation benefits in 1949, the year that this Government came into power. Perhaps the most cynical trick of all those perpetrated in this repatriation legislation is the fact that for the first time since 1964 increases have been granted in the general rate pension. It is interesting to note that in the vicinity of 194,400 ex-service men and women are in receipt of the general rate pension. It is obvious that if the Government can please a good proportion of that number the political effects must be satisfactory. So I emphasise again that introducing increases in the general rate pension in a Budget shortly before an election is to be held is a cynical political trick. It is easily seen when 1 quote from Hansard of 23rd May the following 3 questions I asked of the Minister for Repatriation and the answers he gave: 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
When was the last increase granted in tn: general rate of war pension. 
How many ex-servicemen and women receive the general rate war pension. 
Why has the general rate of war pension been allowed to remain static for so long. 
1964. 
As at 31st January 1972-193,345. 
Government priorities in the Repatriation field have, in the main, directed available resources to the dependants of deceased ex-servicemen and to those who have suffered the most severe incapacity because of the demands of war service, as well as to those whose means are such that they qualify for service pension. In accordance with these principles the Government, in 1968, introduced the special compensation allowance payable at varying rates to most ex-servicemen already receiving war pensions for severe actual incapacity assessed at 75 per cent to 100 per cent. The allow:ance has been increased twice since then, and the current maximum amount is $6 a week. In deciding its war compensation priorities the Government has been mindful that, within the limits imposed by their disabilities, general rate war pensioners are able to work and thus share in normal community prosperity. 
The reason advanced for not giving increases in the general rate war pension was that the Government wanted to give greater benefits to those who were more severely incapacitated and that it introduced the compensation allowance. This year, an election year, because there are not nearly as many people getting the 75 per cent and 100 per cent general rate war pension as there are getting less than those rates, the Government forgets about the incapacity and the increase in the compensation allowance and gives across the board increases to the whole range of general rate pensioners. Since I was given the answer to that question in May, the attitude of the Minister and the Government towards priorities in terms of the general rate pension has changed. 
This trick is even worse when it is remembered that a Senate committee is inquiring into repatriation benefits and that a non-government independent committee also is inquiring into repatriation benefits. A decision that was made in 1964 that the general rate pension should remain static below 75 per cent has been altered while 2 inquiries are being conducted into the best way for repatriation benefits to be paid. The decision having been made in 1964, as indicated in Hansard of May this year, that decision should not have been altered until such time as the reports of the committees had been brought down and it was seen whether the attitude of the Government in this direction was correct or incorrect. On top of this, no increases have been granted in the present Budget to the wives and children of the general rate pensioners. If the Government is going to increase the general rate pension, which has not been increased since 1964, why not increase the rate that is paid to the wives and the children of those general rate pensioners? This further emphasises the fact that this is nothing more or less than a political bribe. If the general rate pension paid to ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen deserves to be increased, surely the rate of pension that is paid to the wives and children of those general rate pensioners also deserves to be increased. Why were the 3 rates not increased? Again, I emphasise that it is because the Government is trying to purchase votes. 
Not only does the Government propose not to increase these rates in the field of repatriation; it has also taken the same attitude in the field of social services. There are no increases in child endowment or in the amounts paid in respect of children of social service pensioners and civilian widow pensioners. The family has been neglected. Perhaps the Government has neglected the children because children have no votes. Government supporters cannot show me one direction in which the Government has done anything for the children of families, apart from the 75 cents which is granted in respect of the children of war widows, the benefits relating to orphans and a couple of little things like that. But for the general family, no family allowance has been altered. So I say that children have no votes, and this entire Budget is a political Budget. It has been designed to purchase votes from the people. 
This is why the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will not announce the date of the election. He wants the altered social service benefits to get into the pockets of the people before he announces when the election will be. Up to this stage, all the increases that have been granted are only promises, and until such time as the people see the results of these promises in their pension cheques and until they see them in other directions, they are not going to believe that the promises will be kept. I say that, fundamentally, this is the reason that the Prime Minister will not tell the Parliament or the people when the election will be. If the reaction to the social service and repatriation increases is not as good as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister believe it will be, the election will not be held until 9th December. 
I now refer to the rates of pension that will be paid. Under these new provisions, the special or totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner will receive $48 a week, the intermediate rate pensioner will receive $34 a week, the general 100 per cent rate pension will be $14 a week and the war widows pension will be $20 a week. Both the Australian Labor Party and the Returned Services League have maintained that the special rate pension should be tied to the minimum wage and should not be less than the minimum wage. In the policy of the Labor Party that was laid down a number of years ago, clause 4 states: 
The Totally and Permanently Incapacitated Pension to be raised to not less than the adult minimum wage as determined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
When the RSL presented its 1972 plan to the ex-servicemen's committee of Cabinet it released a Press statement in which it said: 
In the opinion of the RSL, the system of establishing compensation levels was outmoded and unjust. It was essential that if the principle of compensation was to be recognised, values should he adjusted automatically each year to compensate for rising living costs. This had been done already in a number of countries that could be compared with Australia. In both France and Israel, levels were adjusted by comparison with the salary of the Public Service; in New Zealand and Britain, they were adjusted by reference to the consumer price index. The RSL felt that an automatic relationship with the Minimum Wag; would be the most workable and the most just basis for automatic adjustment of compensation levels for war disabilities in Australia. 
The Labor Party has suggested that the general rate pension should be 50 per cent of the minimum wage and both Labor and the RSL say that the special rate pension should be not less than the minimum wage. So the Labor Party, in common with the RSL, believes that the special rate pension should be $51.80 a week - the present minimum wage - the intermediate rate pension should be $36.26 a week, or 70 per cent of the special rate pension as it is at the moment, and the general rate pension should be $25.90, or 50 per cent of the special rate. The war widow's pension should also be $25.90 to bring it back to the relative value that it had in 1949. 
This would give the war widows an immediate increase of $5.90 a week. In 1949 the general rate pension and the war widow's pension were running along fairly closely together. So, despite the claims that have been made by this Government about the marvels it has performed in the field of repatriation, it still can be shown conclusively that the biggest ex-service organisation in the Commonwealth, the Returned Services League, is still not satisfied with the attitude of this Government towards the ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen of Australia. 
I now turn to another point. The funeral benefit has not been increased since 1953. Again, the Labor Party has suggested for a number of years that there should be an increase in the rate of funeral benefit. The policy of the Labor Party stipulates a funeral benefit of not less than $100. The RSL suggests that the figure should be $200. As Labor's policy was laid down in 1968 or 1969, the figure of $100 should perhaps be changed to $200. According to the figures that I have in front of me, the minimum cost of a funeral in 1947 would have been $64.70. The repatriation grant was $30, or 46.3 per cent of the cost of the funeral. In 1957 funeral costs had risen to $133 and the repatriation grant had risen to $50 or 37.6 per cent of the cost of the funeral. In 1967 the cost of a funeral had risen to $207 while the repatriation grant remained at $50 and, as a percentage of the cost of a funeral, had fallen to 24.-1 per cent. In 1971 the cost of a funeral was about $261 and the repatriation grant was still $50, or 19.2 per cent of the cost of a funeral. 
I say that if it was good enough to introduce a funeral grant in the first place, and good enough to increase the grant in 1953 from $30 to $50, surely there should be a continuation of the payment of the grant at a level commensurate with the percentage that applied in 1953, namely, 46.3 per cent. If the Government has seen fit to make decisions now to reintroduce increases to general rate pensions when there are  2  committees operating, it should also have seen fit to do something about increasing the funeral grant. 
Mention was made in the Budget Speech of free of means test pensions. The Treasurer said: 
The introduction of the proposed free of means test age pensions for persons of 65 or more years will not alter the position of people who are now  eligible  or may become eligible for pensions on a means tested basis, for example, women aged 60 years to 64 years, and widows and invalids who are residentially qualified for pension, and exservicemen aged 60 to 64 and ex-servicewomen aged 55 to 64 who have served in a theatre of war. 
The service pension is granted to exservicemen and women 5 years earlier in each case than the civilian age pension is granted. But in this instance, in the free of means test proposal, the ex-servicemen and women will be disregarded unless they are over 65 years of age. If the rigours of war were bad enough to warrant a service pension to men at 60 years of age instead of 65, and to women at 55 years of age instead of 60, surely it is good enough to grant them a free of means test pension 5 years earlier than the Government proposes to grant it to civilians. 
To take this point a little further, a civilian woman is entitled to an age pension at 60 but she is not entitled to a free of means test age pension until she is 65. 
It is a wonder that the Women's Liberation Movement has not taken up this matter because it shows discrimination against women. It is just another example of the political chicanery of this Government. The Australian Labor Party first suggested the abolition of the means test in about 1954. Two elections ago we suggested that we would do it in 6 years. Last election we suggested 6 years. The Government has not once brought down a proposal to do it, until this Budget - a budget for an election year. Despite all that it has done, it will have no opportunity of seeing government after the election this year, because it is time, and there will be a change. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  was correct when he said that this discussion today would serve no purpose; that this discussion was useless and fallacious, because the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Customs and Excise gave no information at all to the people of this country. In the past couple of weeks in the mass media underground there has been a fight going on between 2 industrial giants - the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and one of its subsidiaries on the one hand and the Australian Gas Light Co. of New South Wales on the other hand. The Government of the Commonwealth has the right to control our natural resources, the right to give by-laws or refrain from giving them and the right and the duty, as far as the Aus tralian Labor Party is concerned, of seeing that our natural resources are used in the best interests of the community as a whole. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  gave some facts about the efficiency of the steel industry.  Sir William  Pettingell, on the other hand, said that the steel industry in Australia was not up to standard. Neither the  Deputy  Prime Minister nor the Minister for Customs and Excise answered any of those questions, or gave any information to this Parliament which would allow us to judge whether the Australian Gas Light Co. was entitled to place an order for steel in Japan without the knowledge of the Government or whether it should have placed its order in Australia. 
Let me tell the House shortly what the outlook of the Australian Labor Party is towards our natural resources, particularly primary energy resources - natural gas, oil, coal and uranium. Fuel and energy form the base of the industrial pyramid. They serve all industry. The cost and efficiency of their production, marketing and utilisation are reflected in the price of nearly every manufactured product, in productivity and in living standards and in national prosperity. If the momentum of the industrial growth of Australia is to be maintained, rational development of the country's energy resources becomes absolutely essential. Energy policies and planned development and use of indigenous as well as imported energy resources have already been accomplished in certain overseas countries, for example, in Great Britain, France, Sweden and Japan. Australia must follow suit and not allow unplanned, haphazard development and use of our energy resources as is happening at present. 
It is estimated that Australia possesses about 75 trillion cubic feet of natural gas located in Bass Strait, in the Cooper Basin in South Australia, in Palm Valley in the Northern Territory and on the northwest shelf of Western Australia. The pipeline that will be constructed and that is now under discussion will be the largest we will see in Australia for some time. But eventually, as the honourable members for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and Cunningham said, there will be thousands of miles of pipeline reticulating natural gas throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
So, what we have in front of us at the moment is a dispute between 2 industrial giants. Honourable members might recall that, in the first instance, the Australian Gas Light Co. went to the Esso-BHP Company to see about obtaining natural gas from its sources to service Sydney. Not only did the Esso-BHP group hold the Australian Gas Light Co. over a barrel but the group was also helped by the then Premier of Victoria, lt was because of that that AGL went looking elsewhere for a natural gas source. What we have here is a dispute over the reticulation of natural gas not only through New South Wales but, perhaps, also through the Palm Valley fields up to the north west shelf, with the laterals leading off serving various other communities. If the Australian Gas Light Co. can obtain and control this pipeline under its own conditions, it will be well in front in having a major say in the development of other major gas pipelines throughout Australia. 
Let me come back to the main point of my argument. We heard the honourable member for Cunningham say a few things about the steel industry. I have been told that the Australian Gas Light Co. insisted upon safety in the production of its pipe. The company wanted all tendering companies to provide a 100 per cent warranty on their products. I have been told that Tubemakers of Australia Ltd was prepared to give a warranty on its product of only $500,000 and that Steel Mains Pty Ltd was prepared to give a warranty on its product of only $250,000. So, if anything went wrong in the final test, Tubemakers was prepared to stand the cost to a figure of $500,000 and Steel Mains was prepared to stand the cost up to $250,000. The Japanese, the Italians and the Germans were prepared to give a 100 per cent warranty and were prepared to allow what they called a high level hydrostatic test on the pipe to be conducted after the pipe had been manufactured, fabricated and installed. 
I want to know - I expected the  Deputy  Prime Minister or the Minister for Customs and Excise to give some information on these points - whether the Australian companies were given the opportunity to quote for this project. Are the matters I have stated correct7 The Minister for Cus toms and Excise referred to by-law application. This will be decided by the best experts available to his Department. But I will guarantee that the decision on by-law entry will be taken without this Parliament being advised of the grounds on which it was taken. Nobody in Australia will know whether the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd was correct in its claims that it was done an injustice by the Australian Gas Light Co. and no-one will know whether AGL was correct in giving the order to Japan. But it has already been established - the  Deputy  Prime Minister admitted this - that the order has gone to Japan. So the only remaining point at issue is whether the application by AGL for by-law entry will be approved. 
I have been told that if the by-law application is not granted it will cost AGL something like $ 14.75m. The cost factor involved means that for every $10m impost there will be a loss of $125m to the consumers of New South Wales over a period of 25 years. The Opposition cannot obtain this sort of information unless it is given to us by one or other of the industrial giants. But the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Customs and Excise could be expected to lay some facts on the line. In particular, I take great umbrage at the Minister for Customs and Excise saying that we have no right to discuss this matter in this chamber. The Senate has discussed it.  Sir William  Pettingell has discussed it. The General Manager and other officials of BHP have also discussed the matter. In the Parliament of New South Wales the Minister for Mines has made statements and questions have been asked on the subject. But, where the major decision is to be made - in this Parliament - we are not allowed to discuss it. 
As the honourable member for Hughes said, everybody in Australia is talking about it. Everybody is satisfied that either AGL or BHP is not telling the truth, yet this Government will not give information to the Parliament to enable us to decide whether the contract should go to Japan or whether a portion should be given to the Australian companies of Tubemakers and Steel Mains in order to allow an Australian industry to increase its efficiency and capacity. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does his Department refuse to disclose the contract price for the installation of telecommunications equipment; if so, why. 
Does the use of private contractors for this work result in higher or lower costs to his Department. 
What was the estimated saving or loss to his Department from this practice in the last 3 years. 
What cost factors are taken into account in arriving at this figure. 
I had intended to ask for leave to ask a couple of questions. The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has given me a copy of the report on frequency modulation broadcasting but I do not recall the report being presented to the Parliament. 
I missed that; I am sorry. 1 wanted to know whether the Minister intended to spell out more clearly and specifically the details relating to public broadcasting stations than he has done at this stage because if the report comes back for discussion during this session I think that is information which the country is entitled to have. 
 I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I appreciate the sentiments that have been expressed in this debate by a number of other honourable members on the need to preserve our environment and our ecology. Lack of thought on this matter in the past has caused many of our problems. It will perhaps take as long to cure those problems as it took to create them. But I would like to sound a warning. It is not a matter of ecology and environment versus development, but rather of ecology, environment and development. Our trees, waterways and lakes cannot figure so largely in our thoughts that people will not be provided with the services, amenities, standard of living and quality of life that they have come to expect in modern Australia. Therefore we should think in terms of ecology, environment and development. 
With good grace on the part of eco.logists. environmentalists, developers and governments I think a lot of the problems can be solved. But at the moment it seems to me as though we are heading for a clash. This has happened in the United States of America, where protracted legal cases arise over many development projects that are absolutely essential for the continuation in that country of the plain, ordinary services that are required. The same thing could happen in Australia unless there is good grace on the part of governments, ecologists. environmentalists and the other people who at the moment seem to be lining up against each other. 
It is to be accepted that, the way Australia is developing at the moment, we will require thousands of miles of highways. We will need more sewerage works. We will need to develop our natural resources - extract a greater amount of them from the ground. We will need to provide power so that our industry and domestic life can continue. T would like to give the Committee one example - that of power. Our electricity requirements in the last 12 years have doubled and by 1975 there will be something like 20,000 megawatts of generating capacity in Australia. If our electricity requirements continue to double every 12 years, by the year 2,000 we will require between 80,000 and 100,000 megawatts of generating capacity. So we will have a large number of power stations. VVhere will these stations be put, and for every station that is required will it be necessary to have protracted legal proceedings? Will construction be held up because the environmentalists and the eco.logists do not want them placed in particular locations? If these power stations are not constructed, and we do not get the generating capacity I mentioned, the whole nation could come to a standstill. 
When we talk of power we talk of the primary energy resources - coal, uranium, natural gas and oil. Oil and coal are perhaps pollutants. People are afraid of uranium and nuclear energy because of the safety hazards that they present and also because of the waste materials. The provision of natural gas to the community will require the construction of long pipelines. The main pipeline under consideration at the moment is the Australian Gas Light Company's pipeline, which will stretch for something like 760 miles from South Aus tralia to New South Wales and will require along that length, I would suggest, a width of about 60 to 80 feet of territory. Naturally, trees will have to be pulled down and perhaps some of our waterways will be interfered with. Perhaps in some circumstances the pipeline will have to be constructed over the top of a mountain rather than being concealed. If there is to be a fight every time a development project is undertaken I am afraid we will be in for a long period of worry and fighting, and not development, in this country. 
Too strict controls on environmental and ecological matters will create vast problems for governments and private industry in Australia.  Mr John  W. Simpson, the  President  of Power Systems Company, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, in America put it fairly well, I think, in a speech he made not so long ago when he said:  lt' we lel ecology become a political football with legislators vying with one another to see who can get the cleanest anti-pollution bill on the books regardless of its consequences; or if we allow ourselves lo become panicky because some freelance writer has prophesied the collapse of our planet, then we are in trouble. 
I have taken part in this debate today merely to sound the warning that it is not environment versus development; rather it is ecology, environment and development. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration been drawn to the fact that several members of a visiting pop group have pleaded guilty to drug charges and have been remanded for sentence? If so, can he inform the House what investigations were made by his Depart-1 ment into the background and history of members of the group before they were granted permission to enter Australia? Has he authority to withdraw approval for their visit? If so, will he, in the interests of the young people of Australia, exercise this authority? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
How many contracts or agreements for the export of natural gas have been approved or are under investigation by the Government 
What are the names of the companies involved. 
What is the shareholding of these companies and are they Australian or foreign owned. 
Are the contracts or agreements with the governments or private firms of overseas countries. 
What countries are involved. 
What is (a) the quantity of natural gas and (b) the price associated with each contract or agreement. 
What is the duration of each contract or agreement. 
I second the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  The amendment reads: 
That all words after' That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House condemns the Government for its failure to prepare and publish plans to 
ensure world prices for exports of natural resources, 
promote processing industries located and controlled in Australia, and 
protect the environment from damage as a result of resource development'. 
First of all, I think the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  deserves congratulations for the very comprehensive and informative statement and background paper that he presented to the Parliament. I know that the Minister is on the verge of retirement. In presenting this statement and background paper he performed a service to Australia and to the Parliament. I wish him well in his retirement. He has been one of the few Ministers on the other side of the House whom I have never quite understood but when I think about it I can appreciate why. He spent a number of years as a prisoner of war; he has been a member of the Liberal Party for a long time, a member of this Parliament for a long time, a Minister for a long time. If all of those things do not make one tough I do not know what does. I only wish that occasionally he would have shown some signs of emotion, particularly when I thought I asked him a very clever question.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  through you I convey the sentiments of the Labor Opposition, and certainly my own in wishing the Minister for National Development a long, healthy, happy retirement. 
I am afraid that from here in I have to become political. All members of the Opposition  aTe  greatly dissatisfied with the failure of this Government to spell out precisely and clearly a national fuel and energy policy. This Government has been in office for 23 years. In his statement the Minister showed that he is aware of the predictions that have been made by people in many other countries, namely, that the world is likely to face an energy crisis before the year 2000. The Minister stressed the fact that the total world demand for energy doubled over the last 15 years and that Australia's demand for energy had doubled over the last 12 years. 1 am brash enough to suggest that in the next decade or two, particularly under a Labor government, the development and expansion of Australia will continue at a much more rapid rate than has been occurring in the last 23 years. Therefore, it is essential that the use of our energy resources - coal, oil, natural gas, uranium - be planned. They should be planned to be used economically and efficiently. 
One has only to look at the example of the United States of America. That country had a vast amount of primary energy resources and it used them as swiftly and as easily as it could. It used its cheapest, most accessible and most convenient energy supplies. Because the United States has a penchant for unrestricted commercial competition it allowed a haphazard, wasteful and uneconomic use of its fuels. The United States of America is now at a stage where the eastern part, in particular, faces yearly electric power shortages which have led to brown-outs in New York and other areas. It now has a shortage of natural gas and oil supplies. Its electric power and fuel costs are rising throughout the country. Experts estimate that within a few years America could be in trouble with its fuel resources. 
An estimate by the Energy Economic Division of the Chase Manhattan Bank indicated that by 1985 the United States will have a deficit in natural gas of 47 billion cubic feet per day. In oil it will have a daily deficit of 15.2 million barrels. Three-quarters of the energy in the United States is provided by petroleum products, so by 1985 it will have to be supplied by foreign sources. This places the United States of America in a position of constant weakness. It will always be vulnerable to having a major part of its oil supply cut off. In addition, it also faces a monumental balance of payments problem. On the estimated figures which I have just cited, the requirements of foreign natural gas and oil imports to the United States of America will cost $30 billion per year. 
Because Australia appears to have ample supplies of primary energy resources for the foreseeable future we cannot be complacent. We need now to take example from the United States and preserve our resources, and use them in the interests of Australia and of countries near to us which may need primary energy resources. Our indigenous oil resources at present satisfy only 67 per cent of our local requirements, which means that we are already importing 33 per cent of our oil requirements. In Australia petroleum products other than natural gas provide one half of our total energy requirements. If we do not find any new oilfields in Australia within 10 years, instead of providing 67 per cent of our requirements from our own oilfields we will be providing only 30 per cent. That means that as half of our energy requirements are provided by petroleum products excluding natural gas, 10 years from now we will be importing, unless new fields are found, 66 per cent of our requirements. 
A changing pattern of energy requirements has developed in Australia. It is not unusual, because in line with other developed countries coal's share of the total energy market has been declining steadily in recent years due to the increasing use of petroleum products. In 1959-60 coal supplied 54 per cent of Australia's primary energy. Petroleum products provided 37.7 per cent, wood and bagasse 7.1 per cent, and water power 1.2 per cent. In 1969-70 the corresponding figures were coal 43.3 per cent, petroleum products 48.9 per cent, wood and bagasse 3.7 per cent, natural gas - appearing for the first time - 1.8 per cent and water power 2 per cent. It has been estimated that by 1975-76 coal's share will fall to 40 per cent and petroleum's share will rise to 50 per cent. Natural gas - and these are figures cited by the Minister for National Development in his statement - will increase to 10 per cent of the market by 1979-80. Australia is in the fortunate position of having a fairly good idea at the moment of our primary energy resources, but I have not seen in one statement that has been made by this Government what the potential use of our primary energy resources will be by say, 2000. I cannot even be certain of Australia's population in that year. Unless we plan the use of our resources, unless we have a national fuel and energy policy, we can use our resources uneconomicallly and wastefully or we can export them without due consideration of our own requirements. 
I gave the example of the United States of America. We do not want to follow that example. We have our warning and we have the resources. I note that the Minister tor the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  is at the table. I heard the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  refer earlier to defence. Primary energy resources are necessary to develop our country, to provide our manufactured goods and to supply our defence forces. If in 30 or 40 years time we have used our energy resources to the same extent as the United States has done we will be in a similar position. We are in a fortunate position in Australia in that we are an island continent with neighbouring countries that are looking to us for assistance and support. So we must look at the need for a national fuel and energy policy to be laid out precisely and clearly. After 23 years of this Government it still has not been laid out. 1 commenced my speech by congratulating the Minister for National Development on his statement. A few weeks ago 1 made a speech about the need for information to be given to our generating authorities, industries and State parliaments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The promotion of tourist resorts and attractions within Australia is currently the responsibility of the respective State Governments. 
International promotion of Australian tourist attractions is carried out by the Commonwealth Government through the Australian Tourist Commission. Phillip Island is included in the Commission's marketing activities overseas through its films, publications and advertising campaigns. Emphasis is placed on the uniqueness of the fairy penguins which frequent the Island. For example, details of Phillip Island are included in the Australian Travel and Accommodation Guide and in a recent Commission film 'Australia, Big Country, Big Welcome'. 

 - Mr Speaker- (Honourable members interjecting) 
I have been asked to correct a statement that was made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  who said that Cardinal Knox of Victoria is in favour of the establishment of a royal commission to investigate the subject of abortion. I am told, and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  just confirmed it, that Cardinal Knox has issued a statement saying that he is not in favour of a royal commission. I should like to make a couple of comments on the speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  who delivered a homily on when a baby becomes a baby. I ask the Minister whether when his wife was carrying their children and they knew she was pregnant did they refer to that baby as a blob of jelly or did they refer to it, from the time that they knew she was pregnant and they were going to have a baby, as a foetus or any other name but baby? Did they expect at any stage during that pregnancy that 3 white mice or a kangaroo was within his wife's body? 
The Minister for Social Security has disregarded statements that have been made all round the world by leaders, both civil and religious, about the rights of the unborn child. We all believe that human life is precious and should not be lightly destroyed. The unborn child is worthy of the same protection the law gives to the infant after birth. Some of the statements that have been  ma:e  about the rights of the unborn child appear in the Declaration of the Rights of a Child, United Nations General Assembly, 20th November 1959, which reads: 
The child, by reason of his physical and mental immaturity, needs special safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection, before as well as after birth. 
The World Medical Association in its declaration asserts that it will preserve the utmost respect for human life from the time of conception. The code of ethics of the Australian Medical Association states: 
I will maintain the utmost respect for human life, from the time of conception; even under threat I will not use my medical knowledge contrary to the laws of humanity. 
Statements have been made by the Vatican, by the Orthodox Jewish Church and by various other churches and I concur with most of those statements. I believe that a child when conceived is a human being and I have a great regard and respect for human life. 
Because the time for this debate has almost expired I will not deal with the subject matter of the Bill. It seems to me that the proposal to establish a royal commission - the amendment that was moved by the honourable member for Casey and seconded by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)is  now the matter that needs some consideration. I am opposed to the amendment calling for a royal commission. I ask all honourable members to oppose not only the amendment but also the Bill. The institution of a royal commission or a comittee of inquiry in the terms proposed can serve no other purpose than to delay the inevitable defeat of this Bill. The people of Australia do not want abortion on demand and now, rather than face a decision, the subterfuge of an inquiry is being used. My Government has already instituted over 30 committees of inquiry of various types to investigate matters of government policy. We have before us now a proposal to institute a royal commission into the need for abortion on demand in Australia. 
For more than 2 years in the United Kingdom the Lane Committee has been taking evidence on this very subject. The United Kingdom has had experience of abortion on demand. since 1967. It is the first time, so shortly after the introduction of a Bill, that the United Kingdom Government had need to set up such an inquiry. It has had experience with an Act similar to the Bill that we are now discussing. What is the purpose of our duplicating an inquiry which has been in operation for 2 years - an inquiry, as the honourable member for Casey said, presided over by  Mrs Justice  Lane? If an inquiry is needed let us wait until  Mrs Justice  Lane brings down her report. Let us consider such a proposal then. At present the Government has more than 30 various committees of inquiry investigating matters of government policy. 
The honourable member for Casey became rather emotional about a statement that the Right to Life Association had written to him. I draw his attention to a statement which was made before the enactment of the United Kingdom Abortion Act. The Secretary of the British Abortion Law Reform Association, Madeleine Sims, and a co-author Keith Hindell, state in their book, 'Abortion Law Reformed', at p. 243: 
Three postures may be distinguished in the abortion debate: The extremist, the middle-of-the-road and the hypocritical. 
Dealing with 'the hypocritical' the abortion on demand people say: 
They retreat behind the device of a 'royal commission' or an 'independent inquiry' or some other time-consuming device that will postpone the day of reckoning on which they will have to declare themselves publicly. 
This Bill and this amendment must be defeated. I am one who openly admits that it should never have been presented. One can only regret the incredible amount of time wasted and energy consumed over this issue which has stirred up such deep and latent passions. 
Our Government has undertaken to reshape Australian life to make this Australia of ours a better place for all of us to live in. There are numerous social welfare, economic and industrial problems that cry out for urgent remedy. We are getting our priorities all wrong by even dealing with this Bill, by promoting yet another manifestation of permissiveness to such an unreal pedestal. It would be a tragic day for Australia if we submitted to the hysterical and uninformed pressure of a minority clamouring for abortion on demand as part of human rights. If human rights are involved in this, let me invoke the supreme right of all - the right to life. On all counts possible - moral, ethical, medical and economic - I want to repeat and stress my strongest possible opposition to this Bill and to the amendment. 
by leave - The document I am about to table will, I hope, start the ball rolling for sport and recreation in Australia. Prepared by Professor John Bloomfield from the University of Western Australia, this paper, all  97  pages of it, lays the foundations for a new era in this long, often sadly neglected field. Let me make it abundantly clear at the outset that the Bloomfield report, as this paper has become known already, was not striving for totality. It is more of a medical textbook than a series of prescriptions for isolated ills. It will take a great amount of detailed elaboration to get the various projects off the ground. Almost non-stop, we are adding to our armoury of knowledge in these fields, drawing on every available source both in Australia and overseas. But we had to start somewhere and,  Mr Speaker,  I think this is a very fine start. 
Permit me to give you a very brief run down of this report which, as from today, forms the basis of our planning, and which will supply most of my Cabinet submissions and Budget requests. Entitled 'The Role, Scope and Development of Recreation in Australia', the report lucidly explores the present state of affairs in a range of related areas. It sets out the general principles which we want to adopt for a national recreational program, involving not just a few groups in isolated recreational pursuits but the whole of our community. Organised sport, largely amateur sport, is another vital target area we are aiming at and the Bloomfield report paints a realistic picture of our enormous needs and makes positive recommendations for their fulfilment. 
Sport offers the most fundamentally democratic social order one could imagine; it ignores inherited prestige and offers an equal chance for all. It can be the most marvellous leveller in a healthy, democratic community. The Bloomfield report sets out a number of recommendations we will have to adopt if we are to lift sport out of its under-privileged status. This, like our recreational program, will cost money, but not nearly as much as our social security or health programs. I feel it is time Australia joined the ranks of those numerous developed countries which realised some time ago that a two-way relationship can successfully operate between sport and the state. Sport and recreation can repay in the form of regeneration what the state gives in material support. 
A German philosopher, Baron Weizsacker, said recently that man's physical and mental capacities are not opposing but complementary factors. Yet, he said, that in our movementdeprived working life, ever greater demands are made on the mind while the physical capacities are withering away. This is the situation in Australia today and we are not equipped to cope with it. But what will happen in 10 years time or by the year 2000 when the balance between working hours and leisure time will move explicitly towards leisure, when man may have 3, perhaps even 4 days at his disposal to spend on intellectual or recreational pastimes? 

 Mr Speaker, I believe this is not  Utopia  but a predictable future; this is not science fiction but a course that can be charted using logic, economic intelligence and, above all, ordinary common sense. 
We must begin at once to implement a broad policy which, along many parallel lines, launches a variety of schemes. Our job is to prepare for these certainties, to make firm plans and translate them into positive, visible and tangible action. With the certain increase in leisure time, with the equally certain yearning of man to escape, however temporarily, from a highly industrialised and urbanised routine existence, it is our responsibility to recognise, for the first time in the history  of  Australia, that recreation and sport should constitute an integral part of our life and, as such, must receive serious attention and much more than token support from our governments. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his policy speech last year, promised such Government recognition and support for the improvement of the quality of life in this country. He undertook that the Government would establish a series of community centres to cater for the young and the old; and that the Government would design large multipurpose centres at schools for use by the students and the local community, to satisfy the need for cultural, sporting, recreational and artistic activities.  Mr Speaker,  I can now assure you and the House that the Prime Minister's promise will be kept; that such community centres will be established, equipped, staffed and used. This is among the recommendations of this report and their implementation will ensure the sowing of seeds for healthy growth in the field of community recreation. 
The report has 74 recommendations, covering the entire spectrum of this very vast field, ranging from the pastoral pleasures of bushwalking to solid support for Australia's exploits in the fields of domestic and international sport. Let me finish this statement with a sad but honest admission: Nobody in this House is more aware than I am of the enormity of the task, of the time it will take to accomplish even half of it. It is possible that it was not just tight-fistedness on the put of previous governments but a failure to recognise the complexity of the problem that ensured that I would inherit virgin territory. I am happy and proud that I did. I believe that with the help of my colleagues in the Cabinet and Caucus and this Parliament, with the full support of my own Department, as well as the necessary co-operation I am seeking from the States, municipalities, recreational and sporting organisations and all others concerned with the health, fitness, well being and happiness of our people, we will be able to make a meaningful start in the right direction.  Mr Speaker,  I table this paper for the benefit of the House and, I pray, for our people. 
I present the following paper: 
The role, scope and development of recreation in Australia - Ministerial Statement, 25 May 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) Yes. It was an awareness of these problems which prompted the Prime Minister to promise in his policy speech that Government assistance would be given to the tourist industry. 
Yes. At present proposals are being developed by my Department on the general question of assistance to the tourist industry. These proposals will be considered in the context of the 1973-74 Budget. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a summary of discussions held at the meeting of Ministers responsible for recreation at Canberra on Thursday, 7 June 1973. 
by leave - 'Establishing a new portfolio is always a challenging task. When tabling another report in May on The Role, Scope and Development of Recreation in Australia', I said that the magnitude of the task did not daunt me. However, the complexity of .the problems associated with both tourism and recreation has not been fully appreciated by everybody in the past. My purpose in having reports prepared on the major areas within my responsibility is to provide a sound basis for future planning. I am anxious that both the problems and potential of tourism be clearly understood and its needs be identified before attempting to find solutions. 
This report, 'Development of Tourism in Australia', has been prepared by my Department with the benefit of advice from the Australian Tourist Commission, the Australian National Travel Association and other interested organisations. It provides a general description of tourism in Australia by looking at the following questions: What is the nature and degree of our appeal as a tourist destination? What is the place of tourism in Australia in relation to individual demands, community values and our national identity? What is its contribution to the national economy and to regional economies? What is its role as an employer? And finally, what is its relationship to the environment? 
This report looks closely at the state of the tourist industry and outlines the difficulties it is experiencing. Some of its problems are due both to the nature of the industry and to shorter-term adverse circumstances. I cannot help but feel that the problems of the tourist industry are not understood and appreciated enough. There is a widespread but incorrect impression that the industry is relatively prosperous, making it tempting to dismiss claims for assistance rather too quickly or, even worse, to impose further burdens on an industry whose viability is at the best uncertain. I hope this report will correct these views. However, the main purpose of this report is to stimulate discussion. We have suggested a number of objectives which the Australian Government should accept towards the development of tourism. These objectives are unashamedly flavoured by our Government's basic philosophies. We believe the new attitude and direction they adopt will set a worthwhile pattern for Australian Government involvement in this field. 
One of our deepest concerns is for the ordinary, average Australians. We want to encourage more of them to travel widely in Australia, to see and learn more about their own country, to enjoy and enrich their increasing hours of leisure. The various proposals put forward are designed to achieve these aims. However, they are not meant to be the complete answer. Formulation of our development policies will be a progressive, gradual process, hopefully involving contributions from interested parties at all levels of government and from the industry. What we have here is the first stage. At some time in the future we may be able to translate all the policies into proposals for specific projects in a national tourism plan. For the present, this report provides the background justification for proposals which have been considered in this year's Budget context. These proposals go a long way towards giving effect to the Prime Minister's policy speech undertakings to provide financial inducements to the tourist industry, to ensure that Australian cities and tourist centres acquire accommodation and amenities of international standard. I am pleased that the tourist industry has at last received some recognition of its needs through the following measures: The expansion and modification of the existing grants scheme to provide $ 1.75m for specific tourism development projects in 1973-74. Grants would be available for projects such as Australiana or pioneer settlements, preservation of historic sites and buildings, and fauna sanctuaries. 
$250,000. The projects would not be confined to those with particular international appeal, and it would no longer be a requirement that States provide a matching grant. However, it is intended that applications would continue to be submitted to State governments for initial consideration. We have decided to make an allocation of 5570,000 towards the cost of promoting domestic tourism on an Australia-wide basis, to conduct regional surveys of important tourist areas and to provide low-cost accommodation for young travellers. We have approved in principle the insurance of loans for tourist accommodation through the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. Amending legislation will be required before this decision can be implemented. We are considering the possibility of equity participation by the Australian Government in major tourist development projects, in the spirit of Government and private sector co-operation. Subject to the amendment of the Commonwealth Banks Act, we want to expand the functions of the Commonwealth Development Bank so that financial assistance can be given to tourist development projects, particularly smaller undertakings in selected areas. 
These measures are designed to boost tourism by providing more ready access to developmental funds. I recognise that there are other forms of assistance which would bc more helpful in easing the special operating difficulties of the industry. Some of these are also mentioned in our report. These and other proposals will be the subject of future submissions to Cabinet. Meanwhile, my aim is to work towards the tourist industry gaining a firm footing, providing a standard of service, attractions and facilities of which all Australians could be justifiably proud and from which they can derive pleasure and benefit. Tourism has an important contribution to make to the nation's economic and social well-being through the more enjoyable use of our leisure time. I want to sec this potential fulfilled. I have much pleasure in tabling the report 'Development of Tourism in Australia' and commending it to all honourable members. 
I present the following paper: 
Development of Tourism in Australia - Ministerial Statement, 23 August 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
; -  It is a great honour and immense pleasure to speak on the first Labor Budget in 24 years. Honourable members and the general public have had a chance to digest, evaluate, praise or criticise the various Budget decisions according to their beliefs or their vested interests. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  who has just sat down, gave a classic example of the sectional, narrow minded interests of the Australian Country Party. The bovine, bucolic members of the Country Party have really been shaken out of their lethargy by the decisions taken in this Budget. For 23 years they acted as barnacles on the ship of state. They blackmailed the Liberal vested city interests of the previous Government into granting concessions that should never have been granted and which we, in our first Budget, had to take away. This is one country. It is Australia. It does not exist only of the farmers and the farmers' friends. There are people throughout the length and breadth of this land who deserve the same consideration as the people in the country have been receiving for a number of years. This is what is worrying the Country Party. For the first time in 24 years members of the Country Party have to stand and prove that the concessions that they want for country people are really deserved. 
I am convinced that this is not only a good Budget but it is also a very Australian Budget, possibly the first in many a long year which unashamedly sets out to protect our national interests ahead of any others - the first which, so to say, is designed to allow Australians to interfere in their own domestic affairs. The central theme of the Budget is the Government's very explicit concern with the quality of life. Whether one examines the fields of health, housing, education, social welfare, conservation, urban development or repatriation, one will have little trouble detecting evidence of our ambition and aim to improve the lot of our people not just in material terms but in every way. 
This brings me to my own portfolio, the related wings of which are ideal to cater for the leisure and pleasure of man. I hope our society has come a long way since the midVictorian days when pleasure was automatically equated with sin - when the average working man's only privilege was the generous allowance that he could work a 70-hour week. What is recreation? To me it covers an enormously wide field, embracing just about anything and everything that is not connected with one's work. My responsibility, however, is largely limited to physical recreation, be it active or passive. Some of my colleagues in the Cabinet have the specific task of caring for the needs of literature, performing and fine arts, television, and so on. Between us, covering the entire spectrum, lies the elusive essence of man's leisure time recreation. 
My request for allocation in the Budget was a deliberately modest one. As a new department, with an extremely small staff, we have our plate full with schemes and projects. It is not an underestimation of the tremendous importance and scope of this subject that makes me feel content, for the time being anyway, with the $6.2m given for recreation. Some people may think that this sum is too generous, that recreation and sport should be left in their prehistoric form, that spending all this money on the recreational needs of Australians is reckless. The allocation amounts to about 50c for every man, woman and child in Australia, compared with $3.24 a head in Holland, $2.40 in France, and $2.3 1 in West Germany. 
It never fails to amaze me how miserly we have been in the past towards recreation and sport. I find it almost miraculous that those at the receiving end of this treatment neve staged an open rebellion against this tightfistedness. I am not trying to find comparisons with other expenditures; I am not claiming that recreation or, for that matter, tourist promotion is more important or less 
16749/73-  R.2 
important than any other community outlet. But permit me to draw your attention to some visible proofs of this country's wealth from which a small segment will now go to  a  silent majority - that is, the hundreds of thousands of people interested in physical recreation, sport and tourism. Compare our allocation with the $15m which our Government was asked to provide to help the estimated 25,000 vagrants and homeless in our midst. Better still, project our modest share against the backdrop of $70m which the State of New South Wales alone must spend annually on the treatment and punishment of alcoholics - about $800 a head. Some people begrudge a paltry 50c a head for recreation and sport. Surely it is time we got our bearings right and paid attention to the needs of a long-suffering and remarkably patient majority who in the past tolerated large scale neglect. lt is my intention to create, by co-opting the best brains available in this country,  a  comprehensive recreation system which will provide creative leisure opportunities for all Australians. Without going into technical details, let me say that this system will embrace, perhaps at the extreme ends, the Olympic champion as well as the elderly and the afflicted; it will take into account the needs of the super athlete as well as the housewife who may want to spend her few leisure hours trying her hand at pottery. 
The $3,215,000 we have for the construction of recreation and sporting facilities will go towards projects in areas of the greatest need. The Sim allocated to aid amateur sport will meet the most urgent requirements of national sporting organisations. The multipurpose community recreation centres will enable tens of thousands to find a creative outlet for their leisure time. The grant to our sportsmen and women will enable them to compete with the rest of the world on more equal terms. Both fields have been neglected in the past; both deserve a better deal in the future. I make no apologies for either. We have all rejoiced many times in the past when an Australian sportsman or woman scored some brilliant win in top international company. How many of you ever stopped to wonder at what sacrifice that success was achieved? Until now we have only identified ourselves with our sporting heroes; from now we are going to help them as well. 
With tight housekeeping management we will also find ways of helping others involved in the field of recreation. The allocation for national fitness goes up from $600,000 to $lm, with the bulk of the increase paying for the construction of sports training facilities at existing national fitness camps. And I challenge one father or mother to stand up anywhere and claim that this money will be wasted. Our Government's concern for young Australians is shown in the approval of various new programs, including $250,000 to be made available to national organisations working with young people. On top of the annual grant of $50,000 to surf life saving associations and the Royal Life Saving Society, an additional $100,000 will be made available to surf life saving associations for the purchase of rescue equipment, on a $1 for $1 basis with the movement itself. Once again I challenge anybody who ever set foot on a beach to question the wisdom or the need for this long overdue grant, 
I do not wish to go on too long about this vast subject. Our Government is the first to recognise the absolute right of Australian people to recreational and sporting means and facilities - and the first to do something about it. Our present program is a humble start, even if it represents an historical breakthrough. As the number of leisure hours increases in society, as it surely will, recreational needs for the community will also rise sharply. I can assure the House that I will be requesting far greater amounts in the 1974-75 Budget. 
Now I want to switch to tourism which, under a broad interpretation could very well be part of recreation. For what is tourism if not a form of enjoyment - escape from the routine, and one type of recreation anyway? Tourism can make an important contribution to the solution of many problems facing our economy. It can create new job opportunities and it can help in the development of many regional areas. At present the Australian tourist industry's income is estimated at $2,400m or 8 per cent of our gross national income. It is a growth industry, with a proven capacity to double in size every 7 or 8 years, with this growth directly related to the increased leisure and rising personal disposable income of Australians. 
The ' Australian travel industry directly employs at least 10 per cent of the work force, mainly in transportation and accommodation. More importantly, as a service industry, it is labour-intensive; direct labour costs range from 26 per cent to 35 per cent of the total costs.. The industry is a major employer of female labour. In hotels and restaurants, women represent 60 per cent of total employees compared with the national average of 38 per cent. One must also stress the multiplier effect of tourism, especially on rural communities, compounding the travellers' spending. While this multiplier process is still the subject of some debate and speculation, a recent Canadian survey estimated that each $1 of travel receipts contributed $2.43 to the gross national product. 
The tourist industry is generally regarded as the pleasure industry, though not always by those engaged in it, for their return on invested capital, just over 2 per cent, is lower than in perhaps any other type of private enterprise. Many minds are obviously confused when we speak of help to the tourist industry. They visualise large handouts to multi-millionaire entrepreneurs. That is not what it is all about. Just as in the field of recreation and sport, in physical fitness and physical education, we want to help Australians to enrich their lives. We want to make it possible, indeed, highly desirable for them to travel all over Australia, to explore this great country, to learn about our history and, in the process, to enjoy a well earned holiday in decent resorts, motels, caravan parks or whatever takes their fancy. All our efforts to improve the status, capability and scope of the hotel industry are made with this genuine aim in mind. But it just does not happen on its own. Some steps have to be taken to shake up the industry, to encourage it, help it if you like, so that those millions of tourists can benefit. 
The Government has announced a new assistance scheme to the tourist industry, in order to develop our natural and historical attractions and to promote a greater volume of travel within Australia. We believe these measures will be successful. We feel the industry will respond. The sum of $1,750,000 will be allocated in the form of grants to Australiana or pioneer settlements, the preservation of historic sites and buildings, fauna sanctuaries and other projects. And let me add proudly that this is $1,500,000 more than the previous Government, with its alleged sentimental attachment to our past, bothered to make available. We will not insist in future that these projects qualifying for grants have an international appeal - an elusive term in the first place - or that the States contribute on a dollar for dollar basis. To strengthen our campaign in the promotion of domestic tourism, we have decided to grant $320,000 to the Australian Tourist Commission, until now charged only with the task of our overseas tourist affairs, to complement and support the various promotional activities of the States. But that is not all. For a Party allegedly against private enterprise and initiative, we have decided to inject capital into the trade by offering Commonwealth Development Bank loans for projects in selected areas, and to guarantee tourist accommodation loans through the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. I realise that by some overseas standards these measures may again be modest. But I want to emphasise that these are the first incentives the Australian tourist industry has ever received. 
Leaving the domestic scene for the moment, let me now turn to international tourism, a major factor in world trade and a vital part of national economies. Our share of the world total is not quite one percent, but this can and should be increased. At present our economy does not depend on this foreign revenue, but one day it may. Overseas tourist promotion is not something you can turn on and off. At present our tourist imbalance stands at $220m a year and is expected to climb to at least $350m in the next few years. This ever widening gap between income gained from overseas tourists and money spent by Australians on overseas holidays is big enough to cause concern to any economy. There are many measures which will be necessary to attract more overseas tourists to this country. Some, we believe, will result from our active help to the industry, in the establishment of new resorts, more international class accommodation and services. While Australia's appeal as an international tourist destination rests largely on our remote area attractions, only a small percentage of overseas visitors travels extensively beyond Sydney and Melbourne. One reason for this is the high cost of air travel in Australia. To encourage greater volume of air travel, domestic carriers in recent years have introduced some incentive fares. The 15 per cent discount on economy return fares for off-peak travel which began last June is another important step in making air travel reasonably priced. The 30 per cent reduction on economy fares for North American tourists for travel in Australia over 1000 miles should encourage more extended tours to take in attractions such as the Great Barrier Reef, Central Australia, Tasmania and others. But there is still scope for new initiatives in domestic aviation to make air travel available to wider market sections and to carry out the Government's election undertaking to provide holidays within Australia competitive with overseas travel. 
All I have just said is the simple and logical extension of our Government's policy to enrich the life of every Australian. We are in the enrichment business. Both recreation and tourism help you to regenerate your run down batteries, to improve your health and to enjoy your life more. Can there be loftier aims? I firmly believe that our Government has started the exciting task of redesigning life for our people in accordance with the rapidly changing world trends and demands. We are hopeful of producing a more humane society, restoring some of the almost forgotten values and virtues which make life worthwhile a renaissance of the human spirit in the last quarter of the 20th century. I would like to hope, that by ascertaining the recreational needs of our people and then catering for them, I will be able to play my part in this. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
The honourable member for Bonython is not the only honourable member to receive many requests for assistance for sporting, youth and recreational facilities since the Budget was introduced. As  a  matter of fact, the requests started as soon as my portfolio was formed. There is an increasing interest in recreational, sporting and youth facilities within Australia. The co-operation that I am receiving from State Ministers is excellent. I have had one meeting of the recreation and sports Ministers of the States; a Ministers Council is being formed; and a 2- day meeting of the permanent heads of the various departments was held in Canberra this week. The report that has come to me from that meeting is that again the co-operation is excellent. An early meeting of the Ministers Council is planned and generally it is my intention to co-operate very closely with the States to allow them to consider the projects that are in need of assistance, to ask them to be certain that expenditure on those projects will take place in 1973-74, that the projects will be in the areas of greatest need and that there will be continuing management of the projects that are assisted by the Commonwealth. 
 I am appalled, as I was a few months ago, that we can alford the luxury of using so much time and expending so much emotion on this issue when other urgent topics are pigeonholed or summarily dismissed. But if we must again delve into this highly complex moral issue, I feel we ought to do it properly and honestly. And that is the reason I second the amendment to the motion. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  supported by the honourable mem ber for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has seen fit to shape and fashion their motion 4 times, the last literally in the eleventh hour, using various kinds of plastic surgery in the process, desperately trying to camouflage the original and basic concern - that of the right or otherwise of women to have legalised abortion. I admit that the fourth version of their labours, the one which actually constitutes the motion before the House, is a much more sophisticated recommendation than either the first or second rather crude attempts. But the fact remains that the honourable members still seem to reduce the problem to a mere abortion issue. They are hiding a small but vital nucleus in an enormous balloon decorated with all kinds of distracting sops. 
The amendment of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is principally different. This also recommends an inquiry into various problems concerning abortion and sexuality, but there the similarity ends. It is this dissimilarity that prompts me to support the amendment. Essentially the amendment recommends that we examine the role of women in our society and I say it is high time that this was done, but not just in the narrow confines of an inquiry that would reduce women to mere curio objects. I do not claim that sex, pregnancy and abortion are not important to women or, for that matter, to men. But I do argue that there is much more to this problem than merely determining whether or not women should have the sole prerogative of deciding to terminate a pregnancy. 
The amendment takes the entire spectrum into account; it argues that abortion does not end on the operating table or in a nursing home but has far reaching social, economic and moral implications. It recommends that all circumstances be examined which may lead to abortion; that all possible consequences which may follow be considered. The narrowness of the motion conceals many dangers. It fails to examine the much wider implications involved that cause women not to want babies after they have already conceived. I do not suspect ulterior motives behind the narrow limitations of the motion, but I am not prepared to accept it either. 
No matter how we beat around the bush, the central theme of the motion remains abortion and sexuality, plain and simple. So let us have another look at that issue. It would take more gullibility than can possibly be attributed to any male to pretend that there is such a thing as a clean, simple, totally safe abortion. There is clear medical evidence that where legalised abortion has been allowed for many years, serious consequences such as sterility, excessive menstrual flow, cervical incompetence and premature labour are not uncommon. As a result, several countries which had introduced liberalised abortion laws in the 1950s reversed them in the 1960s. We have a chance to learn from their mistakes. 
Let us look at the effect legalisation has on the numbers of abortions that follow. Whether it is in Britain, Japan or the countries of eastern Europe, the record shows a large leap in abortions when the law is changed to allow an easier abortion scheme. The working party of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists notes in its report 'Unplanned Pregnancy', published in 1972, that in 1967 - the year before the Abortion Act - there were 6,000 abortions but since the Act the number has risen to 126,774 in 1971 and more than 150,000 last year. I will not quote all the figures for the east European countries studied by  Dr Mehlan  in his book 'Abortion in Eastern Europe'. But in each of those countries there have been huge rises. For example, in Hungary the number of abortions rose from 123,000 in 1957 to 186,000 in 1966, in Poland in the same period the number rose from 36,000 to 156,000 and in Czechoslovakia it rose from 7,000 to 90,000. It is not enough to say that these rises in the number of legal abortions are just making legal, after a change in the law, what would otherwise have been illegal operations. The evidence shows that making abortion legal does not result in any marked drop in the number of illegal abortions. 
The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists report to the Lane Committee states that the Abortion Act 'has not so far materially reduced' the incidence of illegal abortion. The same result is found in  Dr Tietze's  report on the Scandinavian countries and in the 18 years' experience of Japan's legal abortion scheme.  Dr Hilgers  and  Dr Shearin,  of America's Mayo Clinic, in their evidence to the Minnesota State Legislature, demonstrated that legalising abortion had no effect on the illegal abortion rate in Hungary, Czechoslavakia, Switzerland, Bulgaria, Poland, Britain, Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist Rebublics and the American State of Colorado, while in Yugoslavia and East Germany there was an actual increase in illegal abortions despite legalisation. In fact, when East Germany tightened up its abortion laws, the number of illegal abortions dropped. Nor does the rise in legal abortion mean that there is any drop in the number of illegitimate children born. In England and Wales in 1966 the number of illegitimate children for every 1,000 live births was 79. It rose to 84 in 1967 and to 85 in 1968, and in 1970 it was 82. 
What the libertine proponents of abortion on demand may refuse to regard as an important side issue is: how far should abortion be a matter of serious concern to people other than the woman herself, and how are the lives of her parents, husband or future husband and past or future children affected? Abortion is not just an unrelated operative event that vanishes without a trace once the wound is healed; it has an untold number of moral tentacles cutting into many lives. Firm evidence can be produced that abortion frequently reduces a woman's future reproductive capability and subsequent children come at a. higher risk. It can also be shown that a man is more likely to have a sterile wife or a stillborn, premature or defective child if he marries a girl who has had an induced abortion. It is these consequences and the rights and lives of these innocent bystanders that we must also safeguard. 
The argument about the morality of abortion is not new but I will sum it up again. Whether some conceited males in our midst are flattered or not by the comparison, a baby 8 or 9 weeks after conception is their very alter ego in all essential details. Since the 25th day, its heart has been pumping blood of the baby's own blood group. Abortion at this stage with a curette involves the cutting up of the foetus in order to get the pieces through the narrow neck of the mother's womb. It is not a pleasant image, but I want people to bear this in mind when they casually refer to the foetus as though it were some abstract lump of jelly. 
I deviated into technical and medical fields from what, to me, is an essentially moral or even social issue. The amendment specifies the numerous related areas that should be examined in connection with abortion. It shows compassion, honesty and, above all, common sense when it refuses to accept abortion as an isolated phenomenon, almost as though it was the result of an unfortunate oversight by women, something we men must nobly allow them to have - a sort of social pardon. It is a social issue and even an economic one yet these aspects are usually glossed over. The undue importance attached to abortion itself has always puzzled me. 
In our rich and lucky country, the number of women who have had children but are experiencing economic problems is far greater than the number of abortions in any one year. Yet, we do not hear great rhetoric about these hapless mothers. Their plight does not reach even the front steps of this House or the front pages of our newspapers. Are we to worry only about those who, for one reason or another, want to terminate their pregnancy; or are we prepared to examine the implications of their decisions and their circumstances, and to help all women, pregnant or not, married or not, aborting or not, as befits my and my Party's socialist principles and beliefs? 
There is a further moral issue to all this. When we investigate, in accordance with the amendment, all circumstances relating to abortion and children and families, I hope we will also find time to spare a thought for those women who prefer to have their unplanned, possibly illegitimate babies rather than face an abortion. If these women need help, we should give it to them; if the babies require medical, social or welfare assistance, they are entitled to it. The Government must accept its share of the responsibility for these people, instead of ignoring them. Maybe this is not such a spectacular or dramatic issue as a schoolgirl's abortion problem, but it is just as real and just as penetrating a human involvement. 
There is one more topic I must touch on. The motion suggests the appointment of a judge to conduct an inquiry as sole commissioner. I am much more in favour of several commissioners being in charge. The inherent dangers are obvious when there is one judge. We all have been around long enough to realise that it is possible to select your man or woman according to the end result you want to achieve. It can also be achieved when there is more than one commissioner. Only keep in mind what happened to the gerrymandered Queensland, Victorian and New South Wales electoral boundaries. But it is not fair to leave such enormous responsibility to only one man or woman whose personal bias, one way or another, may influence his or her decisions. Having several commissioners reduces the possibility of such errors in a direct reverse ratio and ensures that the inquiry will be scrupulously fair to all parties concerned. 

 Mr Speaker, permit me to repeat my strong support for the amendment before the House. I accept the argument that an inquiry into these vital issues must be made; I am not opposed to an honest examination of abortion problems. But I want to have it done thoroughly, by looking at the whole spectrum, not merely at the medical aspects of it. The role of women in society, their status in the world and their economic equality are at stake - not merely their reproductive problems. The amendment, in my view, ensures that any inquiry ordered by the House would benefit greatly all women in this country, not just the minority who may seek abortion. It could produce remarkable results for children and, certainly, for our families. If we can make the lot of women, children and families any easier and their lives any happier, surely even the most shortsighted and cynical male will be lucky enough to derive residual benefits from such a changed world. 
The honourable member is correct. He has been most persistent and insistent. Until now, it was impossible for me to give a decision. However, I am happy to say that I have decided to make a grant of $4,000 towards the cost of staging the Australian Paraplegic and Quadriplegic Games which will be held next month in Adelaide. The grant represents 10 per cent of the total cost of organising the event. The cost of staging these games in Adelaide is estimated at $40,400. So, our grant of $4,000 is a very modest one. The rest of the necessary cost has been contributed by the Paraplegic Association itself together with funds made available by business houses and local authorities in Australia. I would like to make it clear that this grant, coming out of the Budget allocation for sporting associations, was not given to the paraplegics because they are afflicted. It was allocated because they are sportsmen and sportswomen fully entitled to receive aid as is any other national sporting organisation. Everybody admires the courage of our wheelchair sportsmen and sportswomen and their determination not to give in but to fight on. They are great examples of the classic definition of the Olympic ideal which is that the important thing is not to win but to take part. 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  has raised the subject of tourism in and around the Newcastle area. I thank him for doing this. I suppose that makes me peculiar, being a Minister of the Government, thanking a member of the Australian Country Party for having raised a topic dealing with his Department. I want more honourable members, whether they are on my side of the House or on the other side, to do some hot gospelling on this subject. We have a wonderful country. I am finding that people from all round Australia and members in this House are telling me how much tourist potential there is in their areas. I would be going around Australia faster than the sputnik goes around the world if I were to try to visit all the areas of tourist potential that have been suggested to me. It is my intention and the intention of my Department to visit as many of these areas as possible. The Australian Tourist Commission will also take an active interest in the tourist potential within Australia. 
This is the first time in Australia that tourism and the travel industry have been given a portfolio, and it is long overdue. The honourable member for Paterson paid credit to the fact that my Department received a certain amount of money in the last Budget. I am not exactly turning Catherine-wheels over the amount of money my Department received. A lot more money needs to be devoted to tourism and recreation in Australia. But this is a new portfolio and, unfortunately, there are many people in the community who still have to be convinced that there is anything in tourism and travel. I would like to mention that 10 per cent of the workforce is engaged in the tourist and travel industry. It is a decentralised industry, and that is why the honourable member for Paterson is interested in it. He represents an area where decentralisation counts. Sixty per cent of the workforce in the tourist and travel industry are women. Every 25,000 visitors create something like 500 new jobs. About 250 of them are permanent jobs and about 250 are casual jobs. 
My Department is still only a small one. I cannot guarantee that officers will be able to visit the honourable member's area in the immediate future. I cannot guarantee that they will be able to visit other areas in the immediate future. In the last Budget the Department received an amount of $250,000 for surveys of tourist potential in tourist regions throughout Australia. It is the intention not only to use that $250,000 to conduct surveys of tourist potential in regions but ako to try to provide some low cost accommodation for the young travellers of Australia. I have no intention of conducting these surveys without the co-operation of the State governments and the industry itself. I do not set myself up as being an expert in deciding whether the Hunter Valley, if I may call it that, is better than the central coast, as perhaps the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  would say, or whether those areas in New South Wales are better than areas in Victoria. I need the help not only of the honourable member for Paterson but also of a lot of other honourable members. The tourist and travel industy is a viable industry. It provides decentralised positions. It brings people to Australia. It makes Australians travel throughout their own country. This creates goodwill and can do nothing but good for the community generally. I thank the honourable member for Paterson for what he has said. I will note his remarks and pass them on to the Department and to the Australian Tourist Commission. As soon as we can get around to looking at the areas he mentioned we will be there. 
 I will draw the attention of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to the statement made by the honourable member. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately 70,000. 
The letters were sent by the Government Publicity Office through the Australian Government Publishing Service as part of a normal promotional operation pursuant to the decision of the Australian Government to proceed with the publication of the Australian Government Digest. 
The list of addresses comprised a broadly representative group of Australian citizens, associations and institutions which in the judgment and experience of the Government Publicity Office and the Australian Government Publishing Service might be interested in subscribing to the proposed publication. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the National Library Act 1960-67. The main amendments are to increase the size of the National Library Council by 2 appointed members; make the chief executive of the Library an Executive Member of the Council with the designation Director-General; and extend the definition of library material to take account of modern methods of communication. These amendments are intended to strengthen the National Library's capacity to meet rapidly changing circumstances in the area of its responsibilities and take particular account of recommendations for accelerated development of library and information services in science and technology contained in the report of the Scientific and Technological Information Services Inquiry which was tabled in the Senate by the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  on 31 May. In addition we wish to make amendments of a machinery kind to the financial and audit provisions of the Act. 
In recent years - even in the decade since the original National Library Act was passed - there has been an 'information explosion' of unprecedented dimensions. The amount of recorded information in the world has been increasing at a rate beyond all past experience in both absolute volume and variety of forms - books, journals, microforms, films, audio tapes, video tapes and so on. Simultaneously the use of computer technology in the management of information collection and dissemination is advancing at an equally bewildering rate. It is crucially important in the national interest that we face up to the problems and opportunities created by these developments and shape our information services on a national scale so that they can meet effectively the developing needs of the Australian community as a whole. Achievement in various facets of Australian life - industry, health, education, leisure and so on - will depend increasingly on Australians being able to find their way to and through relevant areas of recorded knowledge. Prompt and efficient access can yield dramatic gains. 
In a special way the responsibility for Australian national information services lies with the Council of the National Library. While seeking to ensure effective organisation and use of its present resources and services, the Council has also given attention to identifying future needs for national information services and other functions under the National Library Act. Briefly, this Act provides for 2 groups of functions embracing all areas of knowledge - firstly, establishing a national collection and making it available to users, and secondly, performing needed national services and cooperating with others in Australia or abroad in library matters, including the development of library science. Because provisions to be made at the national level will touch so many institutions and people, it is important to make clear in broad terms the Government's policy. Our objective is to develop, in co-operation with appropriate organisations at both State and local levels, programs for library and information services which recognise the importance of free and ready access to knowledge as a basic factor in material progress and in advancing the quality of life. We propose that the National library will act as a chief source and channel of advice to the Government on library and information services. 
The Library will co-operate in the establishment of machinery to ensure adequate consultations with Australian and State government departments and authorities and to shape and strengthen links with institutions and users throughout Australia by the establishment of advisory groups. It has in the past received, and has expressed a desire to continue to have available, the advice of the Australian Advisory Council on Bibliographic Services which represents the library community. It plans to take other measures to ensure that it has the best advice on the application of technology to information problems and to obtain through inquiry and research more authoritative information on the requirements of users than is at present available. 
We contemplate a reorganisation of the National Library to provide policy and planning capacity, together with resources and services in the major areas of external activity, viz., science and technology; social sciences and humanities; and the application of computing, telecommunications and microform technology to information problems. In this connection I might perhaps draw attention to two aspects of the STISEC report. The first is that the National Scientific and Technological Information System should not be created in isolation but as an integrated part of a total information system. The second is that one method of satisfying the needs for scientific and technological information might be to set up an authority under the National Library Act. In view of the overall responsibilities of the National Library Council it did not appear to the Government necessary or appropriate to have such a separate authority. 
The services which the STISEC report found were needed will be implemented through the new resources and services to which I have just referred and through associated advisory machinery. 
The physical and organisational coordination achieved through the 3 areas of activity developing into the active centre of a nation-wide network will enable us to make the maximum use of library collections and also the best use of the relatively limited numbers of personnel who are skilled in advanced methods of handling information. Where relevant services within the national system can be provided by existing specialised organisations, consideration will be given to assisting them financially to increase their effectiveness but if assessments show that a new service is needed within the national system, it may be provided either as part of the National Library or elsewhere in conjunction with other bodies. We look forward to continuing and extending our co-operation with State authorities and with institutions concerned with the problems of information transfer. We expect to be able to offer improved central services and technical assistance and a greatly improved access through the network centre to the resources of the whole system. 
I wish to stress that it is not proposed to create a monolithic centralised organisation. Rather, we propose an arrangement by which the National Library of Australia, in the context of a broad and evolving information policy, will become the centre of a nation-wide library and information system through which existing institutions may link up. It will also ensure rapid access through international channels to recent overseas information. The Government will, as necessary, introduce further amendments to the National Library Act enabling the Library to develop its role as library technology and information services develop at all levels in Australia. We recognise that programs of action will require the provision of both human and material resources and we will view sympathetically the needs of the Library for capacity to perform its function. Under the aegis of the National Library Act we look to the rapid and co-operative evolution of library and information services in Australia to cope with the information explosion and the technological revolution in the handling of information. This Bill is a step towards that objective^- ' 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I might say to you and to the House that the speech I have just delivered is almost word for word the speech that was delivered by the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  in the Senate. I had sought the approval of the Opposition to allow me to make a short statement to incorporate this speech in Hansard. That approval was not granted. Accordingly I have spent the last few minutes repeating in this House a speech that was delivered in the Senate and which was not opposed in the Senate. I suggest that the course of action that I had to follow today should be looked at very closely by the  Speaker.  I ask you to pass my comments on to him because I feel that with the new Government in power there is a need for us to look at how we can get legislation through this House far more rapidly than has been the case in the past. I return now to the prepared speech to add that I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the record of decisions of the fifteenth annual conference of the Tourist Ministers Council held at Norfolk Island on 9 and 10 July 1973. 
by leave - In tabling the report of the Australian Tourist Commission I would like to make some observations about the role and activities of the Commission. Some quarters of the private sector view its very being, let alone its recent expansion into domestic travel, with jaundiced eyes. While they themselves are often on the brink of fractricide, many representatives of the multifaced private tourist industry have developed the amusing pastime of using the Commission as the scapegoat for all the ills of tourism. Even in official circles one can see evidence of scepticism, if not outright doubt, about the Commission's value. These sentiments must stem from the over-pragmatised view that the Commission's activities are either too abstract or too esoteric, that its direct and immediate contribution to the tourist industry cannot accurately be measured. This is almost true. The Australian Tourist Commission is not a marketing agency; its overseas offices merely promote overseas tourism, they do not sell it over the counter. And neither the Government nor the airlines wants them to do this. 
However, their presence in 5 overseas countries is just as vital as the activities of our trade commissions around the globe. These experts are not selling directly, but their value is inestimable to private industry, whose efforts they are supplementing. Critics who can only think with dollar signs behind their retina must understand that national promotions - whether tourism, political ideas or frozen lamb carcasses - cost money. Quite often it is impossible to calculate the exact benefits a country derives from these promotions. The Australian Tourist Commission is such a case. The Commission's overseas offices are Australia's overseas arms in promoting a fairly difficult product - tourism. Difficult, I said, because it is fragmented, because it is underdeveloped, and because it is handicapped through our geography. 
The report I have tabled, apart from its presentational excellence, reveals the professionalism and foresight with which the Commission has tackled many diverse and challenging tasks since ils establishment in 1967. Until last December, when my portfolio was created, the Australian Tourist Commission represented virtually the only source of expertise on tourism and related matters at the national level. While its basic mandate was one of international promotion, it was required to venture into a number of other areas because of the void which had existed in terms of data, product evaluation, industry education and, in many areas, leadership and coordination. It is to the Commission's great credit that despite limited financial resources it has been able to achieve significant breakthroughs in many of these areas. Throught its composition and close links with the tourist industry, it has operated with vigour and good sense to make both the public and private sectors increasingly aware of tourism and travel as a force of major national socio-economic importance. It has been aided in these efforts by a staff demonstrating a high level of professionalism in many specific areas. For example, in the research area the Commission has undertaken, initiated or co-ordinated a number of important projects which have reduced the information gap in Australian tourism and led to informed decision making in both the public and private sectors. Some of these research projects have represented major breakthroughs in tourism. 
I refer, in particular, to the Commission's survey of international visitors to Australia, to the part it has played in the development of a major survey of the travel patterns of Australians themselves, to specific surveys of the tourism needs and potential of such areas as the Great Barrier Reef and central Australia and to market and economic research in relation to particular segments of the industry. In its continuing efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of the Australian travel industry, the Commission has also assisted in the development of new industry training courses at the tertiary and operational levels and, in consultation with the industry and the Department of Labour, in the completion of a survey of the manpower problems and requirements in the accommodation and catering industries. Through seminars, workshops and residential courses, Commission management has itself played a direct role in providing the kind of expert guidance and information so central to the development of the industry, infrastructure, facilities and services in order to cater for the needs of our increasingly mobile and discerning travellers. Growing affluence and leisure time, more educational possibilities and a new public preoccupation with all that is becoming known as the 'quality of life' have put greater demands on the planners and administrators in the area of tourism and recreation. We are indebted to the Commission that it has had the vision and enthusiasm to anticipate the accelerating pace of these developments by moving, with limited resources, to fill the massive gaps which have existed in these various areas. 
In relation to its basic promotional mandate, The Commission's status and professionalism both at home and abroad are at an all time high. Quite properly, it devoted its earlier years to the education of the key motivators and sellers of travel in our major source markets for international visitors. That it performed this role with distinction is reflected in the number of international awards which the Commission won with its promotional aids in the publications, film and related areas. The international travel trade, now knows more about Australia and is generally better equipped to portray Australia to its clients as a result of the balanced and technically proficient nature of the Commission's promotional activities. Recently, in recognition of changing political, economic and social circumstances both in Australia and abroad, the Commission has become increasingly selective in its marketing approach. 
In co-operation with State governments and industry partners, the Commission is now moving into a phase of promotional activity which will focus attention on those areas of travel activity from which we as Australians have most to gain and most to show the world, to the advantage of Australians and our international guests alike. I  refer  to such areas as special interest touring, the conventions and meeting business, social tourism in the area of group travel by young people and cultural, scientific and sporting exchanges. Internal reorganisation within the head office of the Commission in Melbourne as well as strategic re-deployment of key personnel in some overseas bureaus indicates that the Commission is not only keen but determined to prove its critics wrong. New, strong emphasis will be put on the Asian market while the American operations will have greater concentration through the fact that the number of offices will be reduced from three to two. These moves are all aimed at increasing the efficiency of the Commission and attracting more overseas tourists to Australia. This picture, by the way, is not nearly as gloomy as some people may think. In April, Australia had 26 per cent more overseas visitors than in the same month last year. We hope that later figures will confirm this upward trend. 
As revealed in the 1973-74 Budget, the Commission will in future play a key role in the administration of the Government's policy to encourage Australians to see more of their own country. The Commission will perform this role in close consultation with the State tourist authorities and the travel industry. I have been most impressed by the manner in which the Commission, in developing its program for domestic international promotional policies has approached the task with enthusiasm, initiative and a determination to ensure that its policies are closely allied with our policy objectives in other fields such as education and regional development. A tremendous amount of work is still to be done in the exciting and challenging areas of tourism and recreation. In achieving our policy objectives - the details of which I have already tabled in a separate document - I will be looking to the Commission for its continuing support and advice. I commend the 1972-73 Annual Report of the Australian Tourist Commission to honourable members. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-1949, I present the report of the Auditor-General on the accounts of the science and industry endowment fund for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I must admit that I do not know a great deal about horse riding The honourable member finished his question by asking for a committee to investigate the subject of encouraging horse riding in Australia to commemorate the forthcoming wedding of  Her  Royal Highness, Princess Anne. Perhaps .the question would have been better addressed to Princess Anne but I have a feeling that she will be too preoccupied for the next few days at least to send an answer to the honourable member. It is true that horse racing and horse riding in Australia have featured quite significantly in our poems. Perhaps one of our national days could be Melbourne Cup Day. There are so many aspects of equestrian events that it is difficult at the moment to decide which way to go. For instance, Sydney is trying to get the 1988 Olympic Games but one of the rules of the International Olympic Federation is that all events must be held in the one city and because of Australia's quarantine laws that appears impossible. Polo, for instance, is a game that is followed generally by the big business people of Australia. I imagine that the honourable member indulged in it in his younger days. I have not noticed many process workers or wharfies indulging in that game. 
To be serious, before the Department of the Capital Territory at the moment is a proposal to establish a national equestrian centre on a 200-acre site in Canberra. My Department is consulting with the Department of the Capital Territory. I think that the Department of Tourism and Recreation will make some contribution to the establishment of that equestrian centre, but the main costs, naturally, will be borne by the Department of the Capital Territory. My Department also has received a request from a pony club in Toronto, New South Wales, and another from a pony club in Tasmania, for assistance in equestrian activities. These matters and all aspects of recreation are under serious consideration by my Department at the present time and decisions will be taken as soon as possible. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. As members fo this House are aware, last Sunday night I announced grants totalling more than $3m for a wide variety of sporting and recreational facilities and complexes. As always, it was my intention to make this news available to all sections of the media. Because of the length of the release and the details involved in the 78 different grants, my office distributed this statement to the Parliamentary Press Gallery the previous Friday, very clearly embargoed against Sunday 8 p.m. delivery. However, the Sydney Morning Herald' broke this embargo and printed the story on the grants the following morning. After inquiries, I received a written apology from the 'Herald's' Chief Political Correspondent,  Mr Brian  Johns, claiming that the time-honoured agreement relating to embargoed releases was broken inadvertently by one of their reporters. 
I would like all other members of the Press Gallery to know - especially the other Sydney newspapers who were scooped through no fault of their own - that I was most annoyed and embarrassed, by this incident. I have received the 'Herald's' apology and I accept it. I sincerely hope that neither I nor any other Ministers will be again victims of this type of offhandedness. 
I thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  both Victorians, for having agreed to my being given leave to make this statement. I realise that they are both Australian rules supporters. I desire to offer congratulations to our Australian soccer team. For the first time in the long history of Australian soccer we have qualified for the World Cup finals to be held in West Germany next June and July. I am certain that when those finals are held there will be many Australians in West Germany barracking for our Australian soccer team. 
I should like the House to join with me in congratulating all those who had a hand in this success, particularly the players led by their captain Peter Wilson, the coach, Rale Rasic, the manager, John Barclay and the  President  of the Australian Soccer Federation, 

 Sir Arthur George. I am sure Australia is proud of this splendid team which so clearly emphasised the multi-national character of our country. Not all the players were born in Australia but all of them played their hearts but for their country in exactly the same way. This was yet another victory for the integrating power of our land. The soccer World Cup rivals the Olympic Games in global importance and exceeds it in television following. Some 90 countries start off on the long road towards the Cup and only the elite 16 reach the final series. To underline Australia's achievements, I mention that countries with great soccer traditions such as England, Russia and Hungary were eliminated from the finals. 
Australia goes to the finals next year as the world representative of the entire Asian and Oceania region, having conquered all the teams in our path. Perhaps some of our Asian friends in the hour of our triumph are bitterly disappointed, but I should like to extend, particularly to Korea, whose team we beat yesterday evening in Hong Kong, our congratulations on their magnificent fight. In Australia the Korean team held us to a nil-all draw. In Seoul they held us to a 2-all tie, and last night they were defeated by only one to nil. I am sure that Australia will represent the Asian region next year with dignity and, hopefully, with a measure of success. Australians have been eminently successful in scores of sports in the past. The world has come to respect and admire our champions. I am delighted that soccer can now be added to their list. I offer the congratulations of the Parliament to the team. 
 I admit that I am more afraid of the Leader of the House than the Australian Country Party is, and he has told me that I am to talk for only 2 minutes. All I want to do is to thank the honourable members for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  Banks  (Mr Martin),  Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  and Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for the very decent way they have treated me this evening. It is a new portfolio and I am feeling my way. I am absolutely certain that all honourable members are still feeling their way on both tourism and recreation. I could talk for a long time because in the past 12 months I have learned things that I thought did not exist. Tonight those honourable members who have spoken have been most polite and cordial. They have offered some criticisms and they have offered a lot of suggestions. I accept the criticisms and I accept the suggestions, and I will make certain that those criticisms and those suggestions are fully considered by my Department. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development 
Proposed expenditure, $10,800,000 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is unavoidably absent this evening on official duties and he asked me to make this short statement on his behalf: 
I recognise that there has been a great deal of concern in the winemaking industry about the effect on the industry of paying* additional tax over the next 5 years until the valuation of stock in that industry is brought into line with the valuation of stock in other industries. Because of the special under-valuation of stock in the past, tax payments by this industry have been deferred at the expense of the other taxpayers of this nation. Let me make it clear that I have recently received messages from representatives of the industry that they realise that there was a discrimination in their favour in the old section 3U, that they recognise that this discrimination could not continue and that they realise that in no way is .mis removal of the discrimination and the payment of the deferred tax over 5 years to be construed as a substitution for the repealed wine tax. 
The winemakers' concern relates to what additional amount from that deferred tax can be absorbed each year by the industry without the individual companies, which to such a large extent give the industry its special character, being left open for takeovers or otherwise to be forced out of existence. I state clearly that I understand that concern and share it. In no way does the Government, in bringing equity to these taxation aff airs, want to be responsible for a change in the form and character of this important Australian industry. In fact some believe that the removal of this discrimination will make wine making companies less attractive for takeover. I have received representatives from the industry introduced by 'the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I have received valuable submissions from my colleagues, the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Don  Dunstan. In particular, I have received valuable advice from my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide,  (Mr Hurford),  who has spent considerable time with officers of the Taxation Office in discussions on the technicalities of this complicated subject. 
It is my belief, now shared by my coinages, that the concern has been promoted by a misunderstanding of the effect of this legislation. The Coombs report on the 'review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government, June 1973' estimated - and published the information - that the value of the deferred tax enjoyed by this industry at 30 June 1973 was $15m. The fears of the industry have been based on an estimate of well over double this amount. With the help of the honourable member for Adelaide, we have had as much communication as possible - there are limitations due to the secrecy provisions applicable to the Taxation Office - with the wine makers. I have reason to believe that their worries have been removed, or at least reduced immeasurably. My advisers can find no reason to alter their original estimates, and I remind honourable member's that the deferred taxes are to be eliminated over a 5-year period. 
There are 2 other particular points I wish to make. Firstly, taxpayers who are placed in a difficult financial position, even though the extra tax burden is being spread over 5 years, will be treated by the taxation administration with the sympathy always afforded in .these circumstances. Secondly, in adopting a stock valuation basis for wine makers, no pitch of perfection in valuation not asked of other industries will be sought. This is a practical matter to be determined by practical and reasonable methods. Whatever consultation and co-operation is needed to settle this matter has been and will be offered by the administration. I say this because of the fear abroad, which I have already mentioned, that some arbitrary and over-theoretical standards will be imposed on the valuations. I repeat: This is simply not right and the industry will be given every consideration while over the next 5 years its taxation situation is brought equitably into line with the taxation position of the rest of the industry. If any unforeseen circumstances arise which result in the position being different from that I have outlined, the wine making industry may be assured that the situation will be reviewed sympathetically. 
I repeat that I have made this statement on behalf of the Treasurer who is unavoidably absent. 
I noted in this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald' an editorial about death in the water. The honourable member has asked a question as to what this Government has done to encourage people to learn to swim and to encourage them to have regard for their own safety. Since my portfolio was formed I have granted $150,000 to the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia for safety and rescue equipment and have granted at least $50,000 to the Royal Life Saving Society for assistance with its activities. I announced recently assistance for recreational and sporting complexes. About $650,000 has been granted for the provision of swimming pools, including $400,000 to New South Wales and $200,000 to South Australia. 
My Department is prepared to undertake a survey of all waterways in Australia in cr&gt; operation with the States to see how the waterways can be made safer. We are establishing a sports and recreation advisory service which will collect information on all aspects of sports of any kind at all including safety aspects. This year, the Government granted $300,000 to the National Fitness Council for sports training facilities. As honourable members will know a lot of national fitness camps have their own swimming facilities or are located on lakesides or on the coastline. In granting money to national fitness 'bodies we are assisting in teaching our young people to swim and to look after themselves. We intend to give encouragement to the learn to swim campaigns that are conducted by the national fitness councils in conjuction with the various municipalities. What we have done already indicates that we are well aware of the need for teaching not only young people but also fishermen and all those who like their water sports to preserve their safety. But no matter what we try to teach them, no matter what we give them by way of assistance, it is only the person's good sense and awareness of danger that will keep him safe. In industry we have a great number of safety campaigns going on but in our sporting activities we tend to give very little thought to safety. I suggest that when we have our recreational leadership courses in colleges of advanced education we will be able to teach all people to swim, whether they are young or old and even if they have never learnt to swim in their life, and we will be able to teach also aspects of safety. At this stage I feel that parental training and education at school are essential in teaching people to be aware of dangers and their own safety. 
by leave - The document I am about to table will, I believe, make a significant contribution to finding the most appropriate training program for recreation workers. Throughout Australia, educational institutions are wondering how to provide the expert leadership which, in the 1980s, will guide the community to a greater appreciation of and creative involvement in leisure. In preparing this paper  Mr Elery  Hamilton-Smith has had the assistance of many individuals from educational institutions and recreation administration. The names of the people are listed in the paper and I wish to record my sincere thanks for their contributions to the study. 

 Mr Hamilton Smith has done a fine job and at a later date, after consideration of his findings and consultation with my colleagues, the Australian Government's program and policy on education for recreation workers will be announced. I propose to table the document now to enable honourable members and the public to read it and to express any views they may have on the subject, which has far reaching implications for the ultimate success of the Government's plans for the enrichment of the growing leisure hours of all Australians. 
I shall give honourable members a very brief rundown on the report.  Mr HamiltonSmith  identifies a requirement for 3 basic types of recreation workers. Firstly, he deals with people responsible for administration, planning, consultation training, program development and resources provision to other workers or other activities at national, state, regional or municipal level. Positions for these kinds of workers are found in a variety of governmental agencies as well as many nongovernmental organisations. Secondly, there are those workers more directly concerned with the management and operation of a recreation and sporting facility. These workers would be involved in the management and operation of single or multipurpose sports centres, youth centres, swimming centres, urban or national parks and commercial establishments such as health and fitness centres. 
Lastly, there are recreational workers whose primary job is the face to face 'operative' task whether as a youth leader, a sports coach, a ski instructor, a drama producer or any of the hundreds of different tasks at this level.  Mr Hamilton-Smith  suggests that professional education should be established at the diploma and bachelor level, in school of recreation studies at universities, colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges. For facility managers, he suggests associate diploma or technical certificate level and for his third type, intense job oriented courses.  Mr Hamilton-Smith  also stresses the importance of voluntary workers and the need to foster this important group in Australian recreation. These volunteers, the report says, are the key to any large-scale recreation scheme in any country. He then goes on to make recommendations on how the Australian Government can facilitate training. 
Our Government is firmly committed to facing the issues involved in planning opportunities for a more creative use of leisure time. Our program so far has introduced many new initiatives. They cover capital assistance for the development of recreation facilities to assistance to sporting teams and research and information dissemination. This creative use of leisure is an issue of which Governments are aware. We can meet the challenge if we begin now to plan towards the time when, early retirement, shorter working hours and longer vacations will be a reality. The universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges have sensed the need for trained leadership and I believe this document, with its many positive recommendations, is timely in that it helps to paint a clearer picture of training requirements for recreation workers. I table the report. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941, I present the report, entitled 'National Fitness in Australia', upon the work done under that Act during the period January 1972 to June 1973. 
 It is interesting to be on this side of the House, after sitting on the other side of the House for 19 years, and to hear honourable members like the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  espousing twice in the one day, almost repeating word for word this evening the speech he gave this afternoon and complaining violently about the fact that this Government has not given to the Opposition the right to debate these Bills that are before us. I shall cite to the House some of the facts and mention some of the people who spoke in the debates that took place on the 4 Bills that are before us this evening. In the second reading debate on the first Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the honourable member for Moreton, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  spoke, and in the Committee stage of the Bill the Leader of the Opposition spoke. 
At the second reading stage of the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill the Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and the honourable member for Moreton spoke, and in the Committee stage of that Bill the Leader of the Opposition spoke. At the second reading stage of the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill the Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  spoke, and in the Committee stage of that Bill the honourable member for Moreton spoke. In the second reading stage of the Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill, the right honourable member for Lowe, the honourable member for Moreton, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  and the honourable member for New England spoke, and in Committee stage of that Bill the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  spoke twice and the right honourable member for Lowe spoke 3 times on separate clauses. 
Last Thursday it was clearly indicated that these Bill would be regarded as being urgent Bills. The opportunity was given in this properly elected House for the debate to go on. In the other chamber, which is controlled by the Liberal and Country parties, the Australian Democratic Labor Party and a few Independents - not the newly elected Government - the legislation was thrown back and tonight and this afternoon we hear these great protectors of liberty now saying that this Parliament is being destroyed. In the 12 months that we have been in Government this Parliament has met more often and honourable members have had more opportunities for grievance debates, general business debates and for adjournment debates. We have got through more Bills and we have sat longer hours, and all these protectors of liberty and democracy now say that we are doing the wrong thing by Australia and by this Parliament. This Government is a doing government. In the 12 months that we have been in Government we have started the whole of Australia thinking, including a lot of the people opposite who sat so silently while their Prime Ministers - they had plenty of them in the last four or five years - led them by the nose. 
Question put - 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
 In the absence of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is unavoidably delayed in a conference, I move: 
That the proceedings on the Bill intituled 'A Bill for an Act relating to Corporations engaged in certain Financial Operations' which were interrupted by the Prorogation last Session, be resumed at the stage which they had then reached, and that the resumption of the debate on the question, that the Bill be now read a second time, be made an order of the day for the next sitting. 
 I suggest to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that the reason this matter has been brought back on is so that the Bill can still be studied. Amendments to the Bill that might be allowed or accepted would then have to be the subject of a new Bill so that the whole matter would be recommenced. My friend the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  gave that assurance. I have known him now for over 20 years and I am certain that the promise the Treasurer made will be kept and that substantial amendments, if considered necessary and acceptable, will certainly be made to the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In the absence of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Joint Committee on Prices: Imports in respect of which evidence is presented to the Committee that the Australian dollar price to consumers or users failed to respond to reductions in landed costs following the revaluation of the Australian dollar in December 1972 or following other relevant currency changes in 1973, wilh particular reference to those 1 imports having a significant effect on domestic costs and prices. 
Thai a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution. 
As the House will be aware, this matter was referred to the Committee on 3 May 1973. The Committee had not concluded its inquiry at the date of prorogation. This motion seeks to refer the matter to the Committee again to enable it to complete its inquiries. 
In her speech to the Parliament last week Her Majesty said: 
My Government . . . will continue its support for sporting and youth organisations. 
These few words conceal a great deal of activity over the last 15 months and give a clear promise of further action that will embrace many imaginative and even exciting projects in the future. Since December 1972, recreation, sport and youth have received more governmental attention and more public recognition and have seen more action than even an optimist would have had the right to expect. 
Operating with a modest budget of just over $6m and the smallest public service arm of any Ministry, I can proudly say that we have achieved some fine results. Not only members of this House but also members of our community in all States of Australia who are on at least nodding terms with recreation, fitness and sport, must admit that amazing, almost revolutionary changes have taken place in these fields in the last year of so. Amateur sporting organisations, for decades forced into a state of submissive stupor by non-caring governments, are coming to life again. 
In our first, experimental year, we have been working with a narrow, possibly too cautious sports assistance program. But 1 know already that neither the present policy nor the token sum of Sim will be sufficient after next August to meet even the most urgent needs of Australian sport. I do not mind dropping a broad hint here to my own Cabinet and Caucus colleagues - not to mention the few highbrow critics with bizarre opposition to all forms of physical recreation - that we plan to introduce exciting new features in our program in order to bring Australian sport gradually in line with overseas countries of comparable standard. It took the Canadians over 12 years of trials and tribulations and many million dollars to develop their current successful programs. We should do it in half that time. 
Our grants for a large number and variety of recreational facilities have benefited all sectors of the community - sprawling suburbia, farming regions, mining towns, schools and many existing organisations. This again proves the democratic nature of sport. While many issues divide our community, the love of sport brings people together. The ideal of equal opportunity our Government strives for in many fields like education, health, social services and race relations is already inherent in sport. We want to make sure that our policy of catering for the needs of the various associations and organisations and for the recreational needs of the urban and rural areas upholds this democratic principle. Places like Bogan Gate, Minyip, Savage River, Wynnum, Balga, Zeehan and Sorrento, possibly unknown to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who is interjecting and to many other members, as well as city and suburban areas in Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and all other capital cities have received and are receiving new recreational facilities through our program, at a cost of only $4m. 
But we have literally hundreds of requests and applications for other places which we can satisfy only if and when this allocation is increased in tune with the demand. Let me add here that so far we have not even received a submission for one of those really superb stadiums which we so admire in other countries but which just do not exist yet in Australia. Here and there we have already succeeded in meeting the most urgent demands with a recreation complex, perhaps a swimming pool or a playing field. But these demands are not static; they are growing fast, parallel with or even exceeding the population increase and rising affluence of our people. I might add that there was a concealed bonus in all these activities. In most States, with whom we have co-operated extremely success fully, we have triggered off widespread interest and activity in the fields of recreational developments. 
It is also a fact that many sporting and recreational organisations as well as local councils and even some of our State governments were caught with their athletic pants down; they were simply not ready to seek, let alone receive, government assistance. Somehow, it seems that they just could not believe that the day would arrive when a government would be prepared to help in their plight. And when the day did arrive many of them stood in stunned silence without knowing what to ask for and how much. Of course, this is changing fast and there is little doubt that these organisations are now wide awake and will flood us with requests for financial assistance. We want to be prepared for that. We want to stay a doing and giving portfolio from which the entire community can benefit and none can suffer. 
The problems of our much maligned youth have also been placed under a new microscope, a microscope 'built with professional care and without prejudice. With a massive survey now nearing completion, we have set out to probe into the lives, hopes, desires and needs of young Australians in all walks of life. We are presently awaiting the result of this survey - the first of its kind in Australia - which' will, we hope, enlighten us and then guide us towards finding proper solutions to some of the recreational problems of young people in this country. There are early indications that some of the preconceived ideas and approaches to problems of youth need course corrections, that we might have been on the wrong track for quite some time. This survey will help us get back on the right tack. If we do have any worries and problems at all with young people in our community, if these youngsters genuinely feel that their voice has not been heard, we have provided for them the forum to speak and tell us just how they would prefer to spend their leisure hours, what sort of activities would hold their interest and satisfy their need for community recreation. 
I would also like to mention some other projects which, in the past year or so, have germinated from mere ideas into plans or action. Next month we are holding in Canberra the first recreation seminar staged in this country, a 3-day meeting during which eminent Australian and overseas experts will examine recreational problems our communities are bound to face in the years to come. This is not going to be just another palaver or academic hairsplitting on esoteric subjects. It will be a down to earth discussion on the immense task of catering for the recreational needs, of our people, calling for planning and guidance to cope with the increasing leisure time at their disposal. 
At this stage we are groping in the dark and second-guessing at best. Many of us are facing riddles and tend to talk in worn cliches like leisure, environment, quality of life and so on, without delving into the true meaning of these words. This seminar and the work that will follow will translate these terms into positive suggestions which all levels of governments can understand and mould into schedules. 
In order to co-ordinate the multitude of needs and plans of Australian sporting organisations, the Government will shortly establish a Sports Council. Plans are also being prepared for a detailed study of the possibility of creating Australia's first national sports university, with the multiple aim of education, research and training. Most advanced European countries have found similar universities of tremendous value not only to their sporting elite but to their entire sporting and recreation structure. We intend to find out now whether Australia is ready for this giant leap forward and, if she is, how we should go about it. 
There is not much doubt that in sport and recreation Australia has entered a new, long overdue era, that our Government has, for the first time ever, openly and without bashfulness, decided to accept at least partial responsibility for the physical well-being and the leisure time recreation of its people. But much more needs to be done. As it is becoming fashionable nowadays, I would like to present the case for a pressure group, even if this group, for a change, is the vast majority, the silent majority of our country - the you, the you and the me; the hundreds of thousands of normal, ordinary, decent men, women and youngsters whose only crime' is that for too long they have been taking it on the chin. These people are entitled to a fair deal from us and I am sure our Government will give it to them. Surely we can find money for this majority when large sums are available for extreme, sad or eccentric cases. 
I know this is not a Budget debate so I am merely foreshadowing some of the requirements for a larger slice of the budgetary cake. 
I sincerely doubt, with due respect to all my colleagues, that there is another Ministry which can provide so much good for so many people with so little money. Every swimming pool, playing field, indoor hall or basketball court we help provide is used by thousands of our people, by the young and the old, the fit and the 'fat, in their leisure time and during their meal hours. What is that mysterious, so-called quality of life' if not the caring for the people's needs after their working hours in their leisure time? Ours is a solid, tangible opportunity to translate this often empty and confusing cliche into action and we can do that with a few million dollars. 
I would now like to dwell on tourism for a short while, a subject of considerable controversy and not without some pitfalls. Everybody who has ever visited another town or city fancies himself an expert on tourism; most of us, at heart, are potential tourists. And yet, in recent years, the word 'tourist' appears to have acquired a dubious sound. Tourists are often equated with locusts and other pests, invading defenceless beaches and hamlets or cities, adding to the pollution problem, annoying the locals, crowding the seashores, forests or main streets. Even in places where tourism is an important economic factor for a community, where the livelihood of hundreds or thousands depends on the tourist dollar, the visitor himself is often only tolerated, if not openly resented. Ohe has the feeling that the ideal tourist would be the one who sends his cheque by mail and then stays home. In view of this, somebody could ask whether it is worthwhile to promote tourism. We think it is, even if we are aware of the potential excesses this industry is capable of producing. 
The bulk of tourist activities in Australia are of domestic nature - Australians travelling to discover parts of their own country. This is admirable from every viewpoint. Shortly we will launch a campaign to provide new impetus to domestic tourism, to draw attention to the great variety of holidays available in many parts of our country. The Australian Tourist Commission, already an accomplished and efficient organisation in matters of overseas promotion, has been authorised to apply its know-how to domestic tourist problems. Next year, the Australian National Travel Association will mount a giant trade fair in Sydney, in co-operation with dozens of organisations interested in tourism. Both efforts, I am sure, will highlight a new awareness in the tourist potential of this country. Also next year Sydney will be host to the Pacific Area Travel Association Congress, one of the largest annual international gatherings of its kind. This will provide us with a fresh opportunity of attracting worldwide attention for our country. 
In the past IS months we have made fair progress in offering Government assistance to the industry. Many grants have been made to Australiana projects - one only today for a historic building near Toowoomba for $70,000 - where the aim is to preserve or develop pioneer settlements, places of historic interest, fauna and flora sanctuaries; places our own people could visit and enjoy. This policy is to continue, possibly in an expanded form in the firm belief that many parts of Australia can offer attractions equal to those in neighbouring countries which are now so much in vogue with our own travelling public and which, I regret to say, keep widening Australia's travel deficit to an irritating, if not alarming degree. I sincerely hope that our Government will increase the present $1.7 5 m now available for these domestic tourism projects and that a larger percentage of the many requests for assistance can be met after the next Budget. 
Certain aspects of the travel industry which seem to have a growth retarding effect, are not under my jurisdiction. There is an almost constant outcry about the high international airfares but these are set by the International Air Transport Association according to its own rather complex formula. Australia's remoteness from the main tourist markets could be regarded by some as a geographical catastrophe but not something any Government can rectify without Atlas carrying our country on his shoulders a bit closer to Europe or the United States of America. The repeated devaluation of the United States dollar did not help us either, making Australia a fairly expensive place to visit by Americans, still the world's keenest travellers. So here is an instance where the strength of our economy and Australian dollar has an unfortunate effect on. one particular industry. However, I would like to assure the House, as well as those interested in the welfare of the Australian tourist industry, that these examples may be handicaps but they are not absolute deterrents. 
In the present session of Parliament I intend to introduce a Bill which will effectively deal with the old problem of the registration of travel agents. We have an agreement with the various States that once this Bill becomes law, whatever State legislations may exist will be superseded by this Federal law. I very much hope that this will safeguard the interests of the travelling public against all kinds of shady malpractices and also help the industry to rid itself of its parasitic elements which, from time to time, stage spectacular collapses with disastrous results. 
I also have high hopes that we will soon strike a firm partnership with our friends and neighbours, New Zealand, in the joint promotion of our region's tourist attractions. During recent talks with the New Zealand Minister for Tourism,  Mrs Tirikatene-Sullivan  we have agreed in principle on close cooperation. The 2 departments are now working on the details. Let me add here that such a joint venture would be of great benefit to Australia; after all, New Zealand has been solving tourist problems for much longer than we even cared to face them. 
Finally, it is our intention to acquire Government equity in suitable tourist projects where we feel the community's needs warrant this step. The first such acquisition will be announced shortly, and let me add here that recent press reports speculating on its nature and whereabouts were pretty wide of the mark. 

 Mr Speaker, I intended to provide the House with only a brief summary of the state of my portfolio and I hope this will give an inkling of a busy year behind us and an even busier one ahead. I ardently believe in a bright future for both the Australian tourist industry and for Australian sport and recreation. I also know that our Government will want to speed up the action and expand the scope in 1974-75. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
Yes, last Sunday I made an announcement about grants for single and multi-purpose sporting and recreational facilities throughout Australia. This is the second lot of grants that I have made on behalf of the Australian Government, making a total amount of grants of $3,999,487. I am pleased to say that in the grants which were-announced last Sunday the honourable member for Kalgoorlie received 2 grants for his electorate: One of $6,043 for an indoor sporting complex at Geraldton and one of $12,500 for the construction of grass tennis courts at Kalgoorlie. In the announcement that I made last Sunday 22 projects in Western Australia were assisted to the total extent of $78,275. In November last year I announced a grant of $463,850 for 10 projects in Western Australia. 
This is the first time that grants have been made by any government for single and multipurpose sporting and recreational facilities. The people who have received this assistance have expressed gratitude at the fact that the Australian Government is aware of the need to provide sporting and recreational facilities throughout Australia. This scheme will continue in the next Budget, I hope with increased allocations to my Department, so that the millions of dollars worth of sporting and recreational facilities which are still required can be provided for the Australian people. I have a complete list of the grants to Western Australia. Rather than read them out I ask that they be incorporated in Hansard. 
-(Lang- Minister for Tourism and Recreation) -  Mr Speaker,  before I present the Australian Tourist Commission Bill 1974, may I, on behalf of the Government, say how pleasant it is to see the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  back in the House after his illness. I trust that he is fully recovered and that we will see him in excellent form for the rest of the session. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that, in her speech at the opening of this second session of the Twenty-eighth Parliament, Her Majesty the Queen foreshadowed the Government's intention to introduce this Bill. Since its establishment in 1967 the Australian Tourist Commission has operated within its given charter of the encouragement of visits to Australia and travel in Australia by people from other countries. 
In 1968, the year following the establishment of the Commission, some 237,000 short term visitors came to Australia from overseas. In the same period, short term departures from Australia totalled some 252,000. That is a difference of some 15,000 between arrivals and departures. During the same period our foreign exchange earnings from spendings of overseas visitors amounted to $98m, whereas on the debit side $150m was spent outside Australia by people departing this country on a short term basis. This left a travel gap of $52m. Between 1968 and 1971 the travel gap maintained a steady upward pattern. For instance by the end of 1971 it had increased to $74m. In 1972, however, it increased dramatically to $176m. While in that year the number of short term visitors increased by 9.7 per cent over the previous year, a significant decline on the visitor growth rates of 14.9 per cent and 22.7 per cent respectively was experienced in 1970 and 1971. 
While this situation can, in general terms, be explained by currency adjustments, the cessation of the United States R and R program to Australia which terminated on 31 December 1971 and in some cases by an uncompetitive fare situation from our major markets, there are no indications that the position is improving, nor can one be optimistic that it will improve of its own accord. For instance, based on current estimates for the year ended 31 December 1973, about 319,000 short term visitors came to Australia and short term departures amounted to about 460,000. In money terms in the same period, receipts amounted to $139m and spendings by Australians travelling overseas as short term visitors were $359m, a staggering gap of S220m, which shows an increase of 25 per cent over the previous year. This I believe is a serious situation and while, at this moment, Australia does not have a balance of payments problem the travel gap of $220m represents a serious imbalance. Clearly then, there is an urgent need to correct this situation. 
The Australian Tourist Commission is doing an excellent job in promoting Australia overseas but given the many problems it faces in selling Australia as a tourist destination it is unrealistic to expect that the Commission would be able to increase Australia's foreign exchange earnings from tourism to such an extent that it would balance the spendings of Australians abroad. How can we solve, or at least minimise, this problem? Certainly the Government has no intention of taking action to limits the numbers of Australians travelling overseas. We consider that Australians travelling overseas and people from other countries visiting Australia have more than an economic impact. The interaction of people leads to a better understanding between nations and thus barriers should not be placed on overseas travel. To my mind, and to the minds of many associated with the tourist industry, the Australian Tourist Commission could do much to help overcome this economic problem if it were given authority to encourage more Australians to 'have their holidays at home - a noble objective, and I may add, in accordance with the philosophy of my Government to encourage more Australians to see and learn more of their own country. 
This leads me to the main purpose of the Bill which is to amend the existing Act to enable the Commission to enter into the domestic tourism promotion field. The role of promoting travel within Australia has in the past been left to the State governments and Territory administrations, through their tourist bureaux, to the Australian National Travel Association and to other private or Government bodies such as airlines, shipping lines, railways, coach companies, etc. But more can be done. Here I might add that I have discussed this matter with my colleagues on the Tourist Ministers' Council which includes Ministers from all States, and they have endorsed these proposals. 
While my Department, the Department of Tourism and Recreation, has the authority to promote domestic tourism in Australia it desires to take advantage of the expertise within the Australian Tourist Commission. The Commission has over the years built up the experience to engage in this type of activity and indeed has done a tremendous job of making . Australia better known overseas. It thus has the ability to make Australia better known to Australians. The type of promotions which the Commission will be asked to undertake will be 'umbrella' nationwide promotions, in co-operation with the States and the travel industry aimed at complementing and supporting existing promotional and policy activities and encouraging wider travel in Australia. To give effect to the Government's decision to widen the powers of the Australian Tourist Commission to enable it to enter into the domestic tourism promotion field section 15 of the Principal Act is to be repealed. This section at present reads: 
The Commission is established for the purpose of the encouragement of visits to Australia, and travel in Australia by people from other countries. 
Under the proposed amendment section 15 will read: 
The Commission is established for the purpose of the encouragement: 
of visits to Australia, by people from other countries, and 
of travel in Australia, including travel by people from other countries. 
Similarly, the Bill provides that section 16, paragraph (b) of sub-section (2), be amended to read: 
To induce and assist travel agents, transport operators and other appropriate bodies or persons to encourage people in other countries to visit Australia and to encourage travel in Australia including travel by people from other countries. 
I turn now to the constitution of the Commission as stated in clause 5. The Australian 
Tourist Commission Act 1967-1973 provides that the Commission shall consist of 5 voting and 2 non-voting members, the 2 non-voting representatives being persons nominated by the goverment of the States and who serve on the Commission on a rotating basis. The Bill provides that all members of the Commission be entitled to vote. This to me is a basic principle. It is important that the Australian and State governments and industry interests work in close harmony to achieve our aims and accordingly, all members of the Commission should be equal and have full voting rights. The Bill also provides that the number of members should be increased from 7 to 9 members. It is my belief that the importance of tourism in the economy requires an expansion of the Commission to make it more representative of the various interests which might be expected to have a voice on such a body. At a later date I will be announcing the 2 new members of the Tourist Commission. 
The Bill, of course, makes other provisions. However, these are secondary to the factors I have already outlined to you and are made either because of the passage of other Bills enacted by the Parliament in recent months, or because the main amendments proposed in this Bill require other provisions to be made as a matter of administrative procedure. The Government is of the view that the measures which I have outlined will represent a further step forward in the development of our tourist industry. I believe that honourable members on both sides of this House will recognise it to be an important step which will complement other measures which have already been adopted to assist the tourist industry and which I will be striving to obtain for the industry in the years ahead. I have spoken on previous occasions of the excellence and professionalism which the Australian Tourist Commission brings to its work. This Bill will enable this skill to be used in what one might call 'closer to home tourism'. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
by leave -  Mr 

 Speaker, I table a report entitled 'The Recreational Priorities of Australian Young People'. In the spirit of the Government's policy of encouraging young people to participate creatively in society, my Department last year commissioned the National Youth Council of Australia to undertake project 'Youth Say'. The area of youth was always neglected by our predecessors and yet 16 per cent of our population is between the ages of 12 and 20. This document, the result of this project, is the Kinsey Report on Australian youth, a detailed recording of their hearts and souls, an accurate, almost unedited and honest answer to the question we put to them: What are your needs and wishes in the way of community recreation and leisure opportunities? The study involved some 1,300 youngsters between the ages of 12 and 20 in a process of workshop consultations. We proceeded on the assumption that young people have plenty to say about their community life and we gave them their first opportunity ever to interfere in their own lives- all this in a happy departure from the old maxim that children are to be seen, not heard. 
We have several aims with this document. We want to stimulate discussion on the needs of young people in Australian society. We want to create an awareness that young people not only have their own views but also a very genuine desire and need to communicate these views. We must provide for youth to be involved in discussions and activities affecting community life. We must at long last concede that they are part of this life and not just sitting on the edge of it waiting to grow older. One quote from the Report says: 
What youth have had to say can now be heeded ' by policy makers as they prepare for new initiatives in the youth field work . . .' 

 Mr Speaker, this report will provide a sound basis for future Government action. If I may say, it is worth being young today. Nobody ever bothered to ask us what our needs and wishes were or how we wanted to spend our leisure time. We were brought up in almost autocratic regimes enveloped in the 'father knows best' atmosphere. But does father really know best? We sincerely believe the time has come to let youth have a say in their own affairs - to listen to them and then act. It may be a new and happy experience for future generations to learn how to grow up without hating every minute of it. 
Trends and fads change but youth is eternal. Thirty years ago it was the Andrews 
Sisters - you would remember them well,  Mr Speaker  - today it is the Rolling Stones; it was the crew cut, now it is the long look. Outward signs have changed but the problems of young people have remained constant. It is fashionable to refer to the generation gap, as some sort of explanation for the apparent communication difficulty between parents and children. This is not new: The gap has existed throughout the centuries. This, report, in conveying the . opinions, attitudes and aspirations of young people will help bridge that gap. It should be instrumental in bringing fathers and sons, mothers and daughters closer together as friends, not as rival representatives of two different ages and periods. 
For a long time we have been speculating and theorising about the problems of youth, offering little more than some aspirin cure for them. But this is the first time that any government has set out to ask the patient just where does it hurt. I commend this report to all honourable members and also to the news media which can play an enormously important part in the building of these bridges to close the generation gap. This is an exhaustive study of what young people in Australia think, feel and want to do. Only by an appreciation of their viewpoint, expressed in these pages, can real understanding be brought about. 
As the report shows, the recreational priorities of youth are extremely diverse. The young people of Australia are saying very emphatically that they feel most of all the need and the preference for social experiences, a sense of community and some personal responsibility for that community. They have lost a sense of belonging. They resent the pervasive, even obsessive, adult passion - as they see it - for order and control and the distrust of young people that goes with it. They are missing appropriate social venues and outlets and have little sense of collective identity associated with their communities. They feel little sense of adventure or challenge about their community life. They feel uninformed, confused and helpless about any facilities or opportunities that may already exist for them to participate more fully in the life of their communities. They find their school experiences and their work opportunities too often frustrating and stultifying. Under existing patterns of community life, they see themselves as the objects of other people's policies and decision-making. They seek a greater degree of autonomy ind self determination. The 'Youth Say' report identifies the central issues for the majority of young people in society and how today's generation of young people want to spend their leisure. These can be summarised as follows: 
There are significant variations of interest at different age levels but very little difference in recreational interests between the sexes after the age of 14. 
There is a very strong interest in team sports among boys between the ages of 12 and 14 but this is no longer true for older age levels with young men or at any age level with girls and young women. 
They seek informal, loosely-structured, social pastimes, individual, non-competitive sports, outdoor activities, and creative and cultural pursuits all largely under their own control. 
Their interest in music and the opportunity for participation in music-making is a major preoccupation and aspiration. 
They prize most highly of all the chance to have some space or places which they can make into their own - not necessarily elaborate or expensive facilities. 
They want to belong to 'a community' and feel some responsibility for shaping the life of that community. 
They value the help of adult youth workers when it is given in a spirit of a responsive partnership and they declare a need for much help of this kind. 
They want better information services about available recreational resources and easier accessibility to the use of these resources through better transport services, lower fares and more reasonable entry charges. 
They often complain about their schools and other formal institutions, about legal constraints and traditional patterns of adult control. 
There is cause for very serious concern about what they have to tell us about the incidence of drunkenness and drug abuse and what might be the underlying causes of these. 
There are some specific pockets of serious disadvantage and an obvious need to look more closely at these situations and to seek to know more about other similar situations not uncovered by this Project. Some of these situations are direct outcomes of government migration, employment, development and defence programs. 
The young people with whom the project conducted its consultations frequently expressed their hope to group leaders and organisers that there would be continuing opportunities for them to be involved in discussions and activities. 
The implications in the report spread to all levels of government, voluntary organisations and to the community and home life. In this respect, 'Youth Say' is an important social document. There are many suggestions in this report which will influence the future programs of the Australian Government. These relate particularly to specific youth work policies and the claims which they should make on the national budget for new projects. They involve departments and institutions other than my own - Education, Labour, Social Security, Environment and Conservation, Urban and Regional Development, the Council for the Arts and the like. Such projects as envisaged in the report could provide a new role for young people and a new sense of purposeful involvement and responsibility. 
I am bringing the report to the attention of all Government departments - both Australian and State - and to youth agencies so that the deep causes of distress to young people can be recognised and acted upon. There may have to be a critical re-examination of existing policies in some areas. There may develop, for instance, a new concept of community as applied to young people. There are, however, many signs of promise. All sorts of resources are already available to us that need only an imaginative policy in association with the young people themselves to bring them into use. Basically, what is needed is a clear appreciation of the right priorities, much more dialogue, encouragement for those who are best able to tackle the practical tasks, especially among young people themselves, and the development of advisory services. The Australian Government has made a start in this direction. It will continue to foster creative experiment, new opportunities and the systematic dissemination of information. To help achieve this progress, the young people of Australia have at last been given an opportunity to have their say. I commend the report to honourable members. I present the following paper: 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Income Tax (Dividends and Interest Withholding Tax) Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government provides grants for fares assistance to sporting organisations sending teams to world championships overseas provided: 
they are sought by properly constituted national sporting associations; 
they are for amateur teams; 
the overseas competition is recognised and approved by the appropriate international body as being world championship. 
The numbers participating in the sport in Australia are taken into account when determining the extent of the assistance. 
Assistance was provided as follows: to subsidise fares of approved Australian amateur sportsmen, women and officials to attend bona fide national and international events; under certain circumstances, to assist eminent overseas sportsmen, sportswomen and coaches visit Australia; to assist with administrative costs of conducting international events in Australia. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
As part of their total activities many organisations involved in providing for the leisure time activities of our young people conduct after school and school holiday recreation programs. These include State National Fitness Councils, youth and community services organisations, sporting groups, local authorities, welfare agencies, schools and churches. Activities provided range from youth groups to camping and from sports coaching to coffee shops. 
Many of these organisations receive Government financial assistance in one form or another. However no comprehensive record is maintained of the expenditure on after school and school holidays recreation programs. 
Because of the lack of .any effort in this area by the previous Government there is of course a great deal to be done in providing after school and holiday programs. My Department is taking many initiatives designed to make facilities available and to develop programs for after school and holidays activities. 
All three levels of Government are committed, to a greater or lesser extent, to the provision of recreational buildings, equipment and staff. For example, in 1973-74 the Australian Government allocated Sim for national fitness, $250,000 for national secretariats of youth organisations to enable them to expand their programs, and $3,995,327 for construction of recreational facilities. 
While 1 am not able to provide detailed information from State and local authorities 1 can  assure  the right honourable member that moves being contemplated by my Department will see the development of new programs at the local level. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
, (2) and (3) Prior to the 15th Annual Conference of the Tourist Ministers' Council, the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, informed me in response to representations which I made, that the need for expenditure on developmental and tourist roads including roads into the Kosciusko National Park will be included in considerations in the review of the operations of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. 
In introducing the Roads Grants Bill on 18 July 1974 the Minister announced that it is proposed to have a developmental category of roads comprising selected rural roads and that developmental roads will include, for example, roads of importance to the tourist industries. 
I understand that when the legislation is passed it will be up to the State Governments concerned to submit construction programs to the Minister for Transport for consideration. 
Department of Health: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 418) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Composition of the group to undertake the feasibility study into a Sports Institute is presently being finalised. It is envisaged that the group would include a sports scientist, a respected coach, an educationalist, an architect or engineer, a sports medicine practitioner and a Departmental representative. 
The terms of reference of the study have not been stated specifically. However, I would expect the group to report on such things as: 
The need for an Institute in Australia; 
The functions, location and cost of any Institute; 
The courses which might be offered; 
Development priorities. 
A report will be prepared and it will be made public. 
Yes. Some of the group will need to study overseas Institutes. 
The composition of the study group going overseas has yet to be decided. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
At thisstage of recreation development in Australia there is a great diversity of terms used to describe persons employed to plan, direct or operate recreation programs, e.g., youth worker, social worker, sports coach, drama instructor, physical education instructor, etc. All these may perhaps be described in generic terms as recreation officers or recreation workers. 
It is not possible to give a precise answer to the right honourable member's question. 
I believe there is a need to have recreation officers working within industry. When such a scheme is implemented I would envisage that some companies would employ their own recreation officers and others would work on programs devised by properly qualified recreation workers employed by governments. 
It will be appreciated that we face a shortage of qualified people in this field. However, my Department has taken initiatives to remedy this. The first training courses for recreation workers in Colleges of Advanced Education have commenced this year. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Recommendation number 40 of professor Bloomfield's Report on 'The Role, Scope and Development of Recreation in Australia' stated that 'the Australian Government encourage the Australia Games, along the lines of the Canada Games. This event could be held in those years between the Commonwealth and Olympic Games and could replace the various Australian Championships which are held in many sports'. 
The Australian Government has no immediate plans to introduce an Australia Games. The proposal will be referred to the Australian Sports Council for their consideration. 
Tourists visiting Australia  (Question No. 453) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
472,124 in the year ended December 1973. 
New Zealand, U.S.A.. U.K., Papua New Guinea, Japan. 
$150 million in the year ended December 1973. 
Details are provided in the Annual Reports of the Australian Tourist Commission. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The Government has no plans to develop holiday cottages throughout Australia. However, I am concerned that the high cost of accommodation is preventing families on low incomes from taking a holiday. This matter is being studied by my Department. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
This suggestion was made at the 15th Annual Meeting of the Tourist Minister's Council last July. 
The Minister for Transport, with whom I raised the matter informed me that the Indian-Pacific train is already at maximum length and therefore it is not possible to add additional freight cars to provide a roll-on car service. Since the Indian Pacific service is fully booked well in advance it would not be practical to replace passenger cars with freight cars. 
Provision does, of course, exist to convey private cars from Sydney to Perth on the normal freight service. 
Management Consultant firms  (Question No. 813) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Information on recruitment to the Public Service generally is detailed in the Public Service Board Annual Report and the Board's regular statistical Bulletins. The Prime Minister has indicated to the right honourable member that the information he seeks may be available from these sources. He has also indicated that these publications are being expanded to provide more detail on the employment of women in the Public Service. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 329, page 626-627 of Hansard dated 24 July 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
A wide range of proposals is being developed at local authority level and my Department is concerned to ensure an increased awareness of the importance of local communities being involved in recreation planning and the necessity for local governments to set priorities on their requirements for recreation facilities in accordance with identified community needs. 
All local government authorities in Australia have been advised of the Government's programme for capital assistance for sporting and recreation facilities. Local governments submit requests for assistance through the appropriate State Recreation Department, which will also provide professional guidance in the development of projects. 
The State Department assesses all applications in terms of technical adequacy and the relative needs of the various communities in the State. The priority list thus established may include local, regional and State projects. This list, which will include a description of the project, the proposed management arrangements and the basis for funding is considered by my Department for Australian Government subsidy in the light of national priorities. In assessing specialised projects in the cultural or arts sphere, the advice of the Australian Council for the Arts is sought. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet: Management Consultant Firms  (Question No. 788) 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of activities of the Department of Tourism and Recreation to 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Commonwealth National Fitness Act 1941 I present for the information of honourable members a report entitled 'National Fitness in Australia, July 1973-June 1974'. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 19 March 1974 1 introduced a Bill to amend the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967-1973. Debate on the Bill was subsequently adjourned and the Bill lapsed on the forced double dissolution of Parliament. It is now necessary to reintroduce the Bill. For the benefit of honourable members, I refer them to my second reading speech on this Bill which appears in Hansard of 1 9 March 1 974 at pages 548 to 550. 1 refer also to the debate which took place on this matter on 3 April 1974 at Hansard pages 941 to 965. 
The main objective of the Bill is to enable the Australian Tourist Commission, hitherto restricted in its activities to the promotion of Australia overseas, to promote Australia for Australians. Although there are at present a diversity of organisations already concerned with the promotion of Australian tourism their responsibilities are limited in their scope. For instance, the interests of State tourism authorities are primarily concerned with encouraging tourism in their own States. Similarly local authorities are preoccupied with tourism in their own areas. There has, therefore, been a considerable gap in the promotion of Australia to Australians and this gap can be readily filled by the Australian Tourist Commission. 
Over the past few months through funds allocated in the 1973-74 Budget to the Department of Tourism and Recreation, the Commission, as the agent of the Department, has been involved in this very task. The first part of the domestic promotion campaign, which has been directed towards young people, has been warmly received by the travel industry and the promotional material has met with great demand. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
We have been listening, with diminishing patience, to the makeshift economists on the other side of this House preaching the gospel according to Bill and Doug, all but claiming that the Budget is the dirtiest book since 'Portnoy's Complaint'. We have been amazed at the stupendous gall of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who pretends to be the sole possessor of the secrets of the Temple, a man chosen by divine providence to see the light where for others, mere mortals, eternal darkness reigns. At least, these are the conclusions you should reach if you believe that this self-anointed economic Messiah is the only man able to cure all the ills of a troubled world. 
During the Budget debate, bewildering facts and figures have been tossed around just like a ball in a hostile ping pong match; surveys and statistics have been quoted and the inflation rates from Switzerland to Swaziland rattled off. One should not be surprised if, in this smokescreen drawn by a frustrated Opposition, every single Australian got thoroughly confused and perplexed by this so-called intellectual extravaganza. Let us see, in plain languge, what the Budget is all about. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said, the Budget was designed to create a fairer and better Australia. Unlike the year by year ad hoc-ery of Liberal-Country Party attempts, the Budget is drawn up around carefully framed programs- education programs, health programs, social welfare programs, urban improvement programs and others. 
The Liberal-Country Party governments of the past had not heard of or did not want to know about the 'program approach' to spending and, in Opposition, those Parties now find it impossible to come to grips with this concept. For 23 long years they were tinkering with Budgets, reforms and whatever else they managed to lay their aristocratic hands on, allowing this country to wallow in the political and economic wake of all comers, serving whatever vested interest had the greatest expediency for them. Now, when finally a series of comprehensive, inter-connected, logical, long overdue and socially just programs are being devised and gradually put into practice, they throw up their bejewelled hands in horror. 
Yes, they deeply resent the fact that, after their 23 years of comatose indifference, our Government dares to interfere in Australia's domestic affairs. To make things worse and the smokescreen thicker, they have managed to make a brew in which total lack of comprehension and a healthy dose of cynical lies are the main ingredients. Nowhere was this clearer than in the address delivered last week by the Leader of the Opposition, based on the famous Orwellian premise that black is white and lie is truth. The bigger the lie, Hitler's infamous propaganda chief Goebbels once said, the more likely that people will believe it. So the honourable gentleman decided to invent some gigantic ones. 
Inflation, he said, is primarily due to the Government's expansionary spending policies. Both he and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  unleashed a barrage of savage criticism of the Budget- carping, negative, repetitive, unimaginative criticism. But what did they have to offer? The centrepiece of their alternative proposal was that the increase in Government spending should be cut to 25 per cent. That would open the way to massive tax cuts which we are asked to believe would cure inflation. No Budget is beyond criticism but the Australian people deserve some better appraisals than the Opposition's. I accuse the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of being practitionersincompetent practitioners at that- of the pea and thimble trick. If they mean what they said- and I suppose occasionally they do- the LiberalCountry Party would add to- I repeat, add to- the spending already provided for in this Budget. 
Let us see now. To cut the increase in expenditures to 25 per cent would require a cut of $900m. This sounds fine, even frugal. But on virtually every specific item of expenditure the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition referred to, the call was for more spending, not less. 
The Leader of the Opposition said: 'The second Labor Budget once again neglects Australia's defence needs' and suggested that we should be devoting 3.5 per cent of gross national product to defence. But that would necessitate an additional increase in defence spending of over $600m in the current financial year. 
As for the States, more should be spent, we were told. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
We strongly oppose the treatment handed out to the States. The Budget provides for large increases in spending by the Commonwealth. At the same time the States have been squeezed . . . 
The Leader of the Opposition should really do some homework before uncritically peddling misleading information about our treatment of the States. If he had only looked at the figuresthey can be found in the Budget Document 'Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities', page 5- he would have found that in 1974-75 the States will receive grants and advances from the Australian Government to the extent of $6,033m, an increase of 38.4 per cent. 
More should be spent in country areas, we were warned. The Leader of the Opposition complained that the new taxes would hit many in the country areas. The abolition of the petroleum products subsidy and the superphosphate bounty was attacked. He would want to see significantly more expenditure by the Australian Government on the reintroduction of the petroleum products and superphosphate subsidies. But things would not stop there. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is on record as saying, in his election policy speech in May, thatshould they have won- consideration would have been given to the restoration of taxation concessions for agricultural producers of the kind abolished by us. These concessions had an annual cost to the general taxpayer of over $80m. 
More should be spent on child endowment, we were admonished. The Leader of the Opposition complained: 
The Budget completely ignores the major recommendation of the Henderson Report which concerns child endowment. . . . This area should have received higher priority in the Budget than almost any other. 
The cost of those proposals is estimated in the Henderson Report as a net $48m. That net figure assumes that the present concessional deductions for children would be abolished, at a saving estimated in the report of $260m. Are we to take, it that the Leader of the Opposition is advocating the abolition of those concessions? Again, the Leader of the Opposition complains that the next step in abolishing the means test has been deferred for a year. Presumably a Government led by him would take that next step right now, and thus further increase outlays. But in any case he has the facts wrong again. They are quite simply: (a) We are now in the spring, (b) the next step has been promised for the autumn, and (c) from spring to autumn is 6 months, not a year. 
Having in mind those major areas where the Opposition would increase public spending- and there are others- it seems fair to say that their limit of 25 per cent increase in Budget outlays involves a cut back from what is actually proposed in the Budget of vastly more than $900m. If more is to be provided for defence, more for the States, more for child endowment and child care, more for restoration of rural subsidies and reductions in taxation and all the rest of it, where is the huge cut back to fall? Perhaps there are clues to be found in the Liberal and Country Party election manifesto. I refer to the document called 'The Way Ahead', and aimed at taking the country way back- back to 23 years of misgovernment and mismanagement. I quote from that publication: 
The main thrust of our policy is to reduce the acceleration in public sector expansion . . . We will make a careful scrutiny within the areas of lower priority to determine which projects should be cancelled or deferred. 
What are these areas of low priority? Can anyone tell us? We have the word of the Leader of the Opposition that it will not be defence. It will not be subsidies to the rural sector- far from it. Bigger and better hand-outs will be the order of the day there, to appease the Country Party. It will not be Aboriginals or the arts. The Leader of the Opposition has been kind enough to say that he supports our increased allocations for Aboriginals and the arts. And so he should, even if this represents a hypocritical turnabout after 23 years of blatant neglect by the Liberal-Country Party Governments. It will not be the growth of the Public Service. The Labor Government is holding that growth to one per cent this year; the manifesto, however, talked of a 3 per cent increase. 
The document offers the sham excuse for its shallowness that 'it would be irresponsible to name the particular expenditure cuts without careful scrutiny which we will undertake in government'. We are not talking here about minor pruning of expenditures, but of a wholesale slashing and if the Opposition knows where it will slash and will not say, it is cheating on the electorate; if it does not know, it is cheating on the whole of the nation. One does not have to be an economist to realise that the Opposition's pious call for restraint in public spending is a mere catch-cry, an appeal to the mindless minority in our midst who read merely the headlines but not the text, a play on emotions but not on reason. 'Cut Government spending' they say. That is fine. Everybody would be in favor of that until we get down to the hard decisions, the specific areas where these cuts have to be made. And in almost all of these areas the Opposition is clamouring for more, rather than less expenditure. What they need on the other side of this 
House, is new and better cliches. Their repertoire is running low, despite the propaganda machinery they have installed with considerable razzamatazz. 
The Leader of the Opposition is a fine man and a great success at his job- so great, in fact, that he is likely to retain that position for a long time. But he has one particularly irritating habit : Like the prophets, he prefers to speak in brief, staccato riddles and generalities. He does not submerge in details. Instead, he makes pronouncementsacclamations if you like- of the most imbecilic kind and leaves it at that. But deep down in his heart even he would know that his attitude is that of total cynicism, the epitome of negativism mixed with the most obvious yet awesome contradictions. Listen to him yet once again: 
We need ... to make progress with our other vitally important national objectives: The education of Australians; the care of the aged and retired; the complete elimination of poverty . . . first class medical care for all; help for the less developed nations; the protection of the environment; the improvement of our cities and towns. There are many more. 
Does that sound like a prescription for cut backs on our programs or an expansion of our programs. And his co-called 'national objectives' are nothing but a hastily stolen, misunderstood and incorrectly interpreted version of the Labor Party's policy platform. 
Let us face it. The Opposition's manifesto was drawn up not to cure whatever maladies this country may have but to try to win votes in all directions, even if in the process those maladies multiplied. The great economic plan of the Leader of the Opposition is a mere Trojan horse- a facade with no substance behind it, the same as it was for 23 painful years beforehand. It is safe to assume, from the righteous Jeremiads of the Opposition that, given half a chance, they would advocate savage cuts even in the most modest Budget allocations of my own portfolio. And that would be well in keeping with their astounding neglect of both tourism and recreation for almost a generation. 
They- the so-called apostles of free enterprise, the harbingers of all good news to wheelerdealers who grew rich during their apathetic regime while millions lived below the poverty line- of all people, never even bothered to have a Ministry caring for the legitimate interests of the tourist industry. It took a Labor Government to start dragging the stuck waggon of tourism out of the caked mud, to give encouragement and financial help to what is, by and large, the private sector we are supposed to have doomed to an agonising death. 
And what about sport and receation- leisure in short- which were not even thought of by the Opposition during its cosy 23 years in office, despite their oft heard claim of humane liberalism? In 20 months or so we have begun to melt down the ossified structure of sport and recreation in this country, as we sincerely believe that man does not live by bread alone, that a government should be at least partly responsible for the intellectual as well as physical education and well being of its people. Would the Opposition, given a chance, abandon all these programs, or would it, somewhat characteristically, jump on the bandwaggon it had not even known existed and start demanding a bigger slice of the cake just because the cake now appears appealing? 
It seems patently clear that Australia, like the rest of the industrialised word, is experiencing economic problems. Only the very foolish would deny this. Our Government, within the framework of inter-related programs, is determined to cope with these problems. The Budget is only part of this overall plan, not the panacea to all our ills. If the members of the Opposition were sincere, if they decided, just for once, to place national interests and the future of our country above their personal interests, above their itch to govern at any cost, above their myopic party line, they would have to admit that Australian society is, on the whole, changing for the better and that we are trying to build a happier and fairer Australia for all, including our reluctant opponents. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act 1954-1972 I present for the information of honourable members the twentieth annual statement concerning the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ending 30 June 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I take this opportunity of thanking honourable members who have spoken in this debate. Their suggestion and queries will be taken into consideration and where an answer is required it will be sent to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967 I present for the information of honourable members the seventh annual report and financial statements of the Australian Tourist Commission for the year ending 30 June 1 974. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the  interdepartmental committee inquiry into boxing and other combat sports. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared for the Australian Department of Tourism and Recreation by Consultation Planning survey Services titled 'Demand for Recreation Workers '. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to prepare a comprehensive reply to this very broad question because each State Government provides for physical education and national fitness in its own way and comparable figures are not available. However, some general information on programs is provided herewith. 1 (a) Physical Education Programs 
Australian Government 
My Department is not directly involved in providing physical education programs. Where these exist in the Australian Capital and Northern Territories they are included in school curricula. As such they are the responsibility of the Department of Education. 
State Governments 
State Governments are responsible for physical education curricula in both primary and secondary schools through Physical Education Branches of State Education Departments. While programs vary from State to State, the general aim is to develop skills and to foster interest and competence in physical activities. 
Local Government 
It has not been possible to ascertain the nature and extent of physical education programs conducted by local authorities. 1(b) National Fitness Programs 
Australian Government 
My Department does not normally become involved in conducting national fitness programs on a national basis. Its main approach in the past has been through the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness which, under the National Fitness Act 1941, advises the Minister concerned on disbursement of moneys in the National Fitness Fund. The bulk of these, funds is usually passed to State National Fitness Councils who conduct a variety of fitness programs. 
In the A.C.T., however, fitness and recreation programs are presently provided by the A.C.T. National Fitness Advisory Committee through the A.C.T. Health Services Branch of the Department of Health. 
During 1974 the Australian Government co-ordinated the national 'Fitness Australia' campaign recommended by the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. 
State Governments 
The State Governments through their National Fitness Councils and/or Departments of Sport and Recreation are responsible for the conduct of a wide range of national fitness programs. Most States conduct programs in swimming and play centres during vacations, organise a wide range of sports coaching activities, and offer facilities for camping. These programs are outlined in more detail in the annual report of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. 
Local Government 
Local governments co-operate with State Governments in the conduct of many national fitness activities especially during school vacations when play centres, swimming classes and sports coaching courses are held. Local Councils also provide recreation facilities but the responsibility for programs usually lies with the numerous voluntary organisations which use the facilities. 
Financial Support 
It has not been possible to ascertain precise, comparable figures which would show the financial support given by the Australian Government, the State Governments and Local Governments for buildings, equipment and staff for the conduct of physical education and national fitness programs. However, in 1973-74, the Australian Government provided $lm to assist with the promotion of national fitness in Australia, an increase of $400,000 over the grant provided in 1972- 73. Details of the distribution of these funds are included in the Report of National Fitness activities for 
1973- 74. 
Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No.  286) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The composition of the Australian Sports Council was announced on Friday, 23 July 1974. Members of the Council are: 

 Mr David McKenzie (New South Wales),  President  of the Australian Fencing Federation, executive member of the Australian Olympic Federation  (Chairman). 

 Mr Jim Barry (Victoria),  President  of the Australian Amateur Gymnastic Union. 
Professor John Bloomfield (Western Australia), Professor of Physical Education, University of Western Australia, former surf champion. 

 Mr Herb Elliott (Victoria), Olympic athletic champion. 

 Mrs Wendy Ey, nee Hayes (South Australia), lecturer in Physical Education, Commonwealth Games athlete. 

 Mr Geoff Frier (Tasmania), State Supervisor of Physical Education, former state representative in swimming, lifesaving and basketball and senior league footballer. 
Miss Eunice Gill (Victoria), Senior Lecturer, Department of Physical Education, University of Melbourne, past President, coach manager State and national levels for netball. 
Mi Syd Grange (New South Wales), Vice Chairman of the Australian Olympic Council, Secretary /Treasurer of the Australian Amateur Swimming Union. 

 Mr Norman May (New South Wales), ABC sporting commentator, former surf champion. 

 Mr Howard Mutton (South Australia), Inspector of Physical Education, former South Australian cricket representative, State coach of South Australia amateur football league. 
The  Hon.  Lindsay North, MLC (New South Wales), Councillor of the New South Wales Lawn Tennis Association. 

 Mr Julius Patching (Victoria), former General Manager of two Olympic teams and now Secretary of the Australian Olympic Federation. 

 Mrs Ruby Robinson (Queensland),  President  of the Australian Women's Hockey Association, former State representative in basketball and baseball. 

 Mr Michael Wenden (New South Wales), Olympic swimming champion. 
The Secretary, Department of Tourism and Recreation (ex-officio). 
The first meeting of the Council was held in Sydney on 29 August 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) PA Management Consultants Pty Ltd to identify the role that tourism may have in the growth of the Albury-Wodonga complex. 
PA Management Consultants Pty Ltd and Planning Workshop Pty Ltd to prepare a report on patterns of dispersal of community recreation facilities in a new town situation. 
) Approximately $8 1 ,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) The Government recognises the need for more Australians to become involved in physical recreation and has provided funds to the State National Fitness Councils to conduct suitable programs. These include courses to introduce people to new sports, and I understand that golf and squash lessons are given in some States. 
In 1974-75, $535,000 will be made available to State National Fitness Councils to assist with their operational costs. Some of these funds will be spent on sports teaching courses. However, because of the variety of courses, the fees charged and the different approaches to funding the courses in each State, it is not possible to say how much the Australian Government spends on teaching individual sports. However, the responsibility for funding these courses is shared between the Australian and State Governments. 
No means test is applied to participants in these courses and in most cases fees are charged with a view to meeting most of the course costs. 
No special priority is given to these courses over social security measures. They form part of the total contribution to national well-being. 
I would not have risen to speak in this debate had I not been challenged by the reference to sporting bodies in the last couple of sentences of the speech just made by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  This Government is the first Australian Government that has done anything for sporting bodies in Australia. Liberal-Country Party governments for 23 years allowed our Commonwealth Games and Olympic Games athletes to conduct chook and beer raffles and to go around begging for funds. Last year this Government gave $4m for sporting and recreational facilities throughout Australia and $lm to help our national teams participate in various events. 
The honourable member for Maranoa issued another challenge when he said: 'Will someone tell me when this Government will co-operate with the States?' Previous speakers who participated in this debate said something about centralist governments. They said that the programs that have been introduced by the Federal Government for the benefit of all Australians have been financed at the expense of State and local government. Let me give the House just a few facts and honourable members opposite can check them out as closely as they wish. I will divide the components which make up the item 'Payments to or for the States 1974-75' into 3 categories- general revenue assistance; general purpose capital funds; and total funds granted by the Australian Government to the States. General revenue assistance in 1974-75 is expected to amount to $2,376m compared with $l,923m in 1973-74 and $l,701m in 1972-73, which was the last Budget that was brought down by the Liberal-Country Party Government before it was defeated. 
I will take those figures a little further. Allowing for certain arrangements for financing tertiary education and the transfer of payroll tax to the States in 1971-72, the effective increases in 1974-75, 1973-74 and 1972-73 are 28 per cent, 20 per cent and 17 per cent. So in 1972-73 the previous Government increased the general revenue assistance to or for the States by only 17 per cent compared with 28 per cent this year. I will not give the figures for general purpose capital funds, I will just give the percentages. These funds were increased in the 1974-75 Budget by 2 1 per cent compared with 10 per cent in the preceding 2 years. Both general and specific purpose funds for recurrent and capital purposes are expected to total $6,1 16m this year compared with $4,359m in 1973-74 and $3,614m 1972-73. Again I stress that the 1972-73 Budget was the last Budget that the Liberal-Country Party Government brought down. The increase in this financial year is 21 per cent compared with increases of 18 per cent in the previous 2 years. No less than 35 per cent of all Australian Government outlays in 1974-75 will go to the States. The bulk of this money consists of general purpose funds, revenue grants and allocations made under Loan Council programs. 
Part of the outlays of the Australian Government for 1974-75 will be directed specifically to certain areas in the States. For instance, 76 per cent of the money spent on education will go to the States, 52 per cent spent in the housing field will go to the State and 65 per cent spent in the fields of urban and regional development and the environment will go to the States. 
I am tired of the fact that people on the other side of the House can get up continuously and time after time use those lies that you are using now. Look at the direct fact - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the Minister withdraw the word that he just used. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I was using a general phrase. I said: 'You people on that side can tell those lies '. 
I withdraw the word 'lie', if you think that it refers to my friend, the honourable member for Maranoa. I did not direct that word to him. I had no intention - 
That is right, I aimed it at all of you. 
-This is the sort of thing I also dislike. I was not in the House last night when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made his speech on the economy. I happened to be listening to the speech in my home and I heard - 
It is remarkably gracious of the honourable member who just took that point of order to say that he paid me the courtesy of sitting down. He has not been a member of the House long enough to realise that there is a  speaker  from the Opposition side and then a  speaker  from the Government side. 
I merely suggest that if members on the other side of the House intend talking on these Bills they should make certain of the facts that they use. As a government we have done more for the States and more for local government than any previous Australian Government-has done. It is time that the people in local government and State governments realised that this Government is not a centralist government. It is an Australian Government and we always aim our policies at doing the most for the majority of the people in Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the right honourable members question is as follows: 
and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill [No. 3] as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For the information of honourable members I table a report on the implications of community centre development. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These Bills will give formal effect to the Government's decision announced on 28 January 1975 to reduce the rates of sales tax on passenger motor cars and commercial motor vehicles for a limited period of time. Nine Bills are necessary because the sales tax is imposed by nine separate Acts to meet the requirement of section 55 of the Constitution that laws imposing taxation shall deal with one subject of taxation only. As the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  explained when the Government's decision was announced, the reductions are part of a package of measures aimed at stimulating sales of motor vehicles with a view to avoiding retrenchments in the motor industry, Other proposals involve the repeal of the provisions imposing tax on the net standby value to employees of the use of company cars and the imposition of import quotas on passenger and light commercial vehicles during the next  12  months. 
Following a statement by General MotorsHoldens Pty Ltd in December that it would retrench  5000  of its employees in mid- January, negotiations were held with that company and with the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler Australia Ltd. In response to a package proposed by the Government for the industry, General Motors-Holdens said that it would hold retrenchment action and review its position at the end of  90  days. Ford, which intended to retrench  1650  workers, and Chrysler, which intended to retrench  1000  workers, agreed not to take any action to retrench workers for at least  30  days when they would review their positions. The Government believes that in view of the very generous assistance it is providing to the industry it is entirely reasonable to expect the vehicle companies to defer any retrenchments for  90  days. During this time the Government, the companies and the unions will continuously review the position and examine how best to adjust to the circumstances prevailing at the end of the  90  day period. 
Under the provisions of these sales tax Bills the rate of tax on passenger motor cars will be reduced from  21lh  per cent to  1 5  per cent and the rate of tax on motor vehicles of a kind ordinarily used for commercial purposes will be reduced from  15  per cent to  5  per cent. The reductions are to be effective from  29  January  1975.  On  1  May  1975  the rate of tax on passenger motor cars will be increased to 17 per cent and that on commercial motor vehicles to  7  per cent. Thereafter the rates will increase at monthly intervals by  2  lA  per cent and  2  per cent respectively until the rates of  27'A  per cent for passenger motor cars and  15  per cent for commercial motor vehicles are restored on  1  September  1975. 
The passenger motor cars to which the reduction applies- mainly sedans and station waggons -are specified in the fifth Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. The commercial motor vehicles are to be specified in a new fourth Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemption and Classifications) Act. Provision for this Schedule is being made by a complementary Bill, the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill  1975  which I shall be introducing shortly. The reductions will not apply to motor cycles. The rate on these will remain unchanged at  15  per cent. More detailed explanations of the proposed amendments are set out in an explanatory memorandum circulated in the Treasurer's name for the information of honourable members. 
I apologise for the absence of the Treasurer, who is engaged in an important conference. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Again I apologise for the absence of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who is engaged at an important conference. The Bill is complementary to the Sales Tax Bills which I have just introduced. It will amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act by adding a new Fourth Schedule which will specify the commercial motor vehicles that are to be subject to a reduction in rate of sales tax from  1 5  per cent to  5  per cent with effect from  29  January  1975. 
The motor vehicles affected are those of a kind ordinarily used for commercial purposes, including prime movers and semi-trailers for attachment to prime movers. Motor cycles, auto cycles and motor scooters are specifically excluded from the scope of the fourth schedule and these remain taxable at  15  per cent. Motor vehicles covered by the fifth schedule are also specifically excluded- these are the passenger motor cars which are to be reduced in rate from  27V4  per cent to  15  per cent. Detailed explanations of these amendments are also contained in the explanatory memorandum which is being circulated. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and the previous Treasurer announced on 4 December 1974 that the Australian Government would seek an initial appropriation of $20m in these sittings to augment the resources of the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia to enable the Bank to broaden its lending to seriously affected beef producers. The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $20m for lending to the Bank. Under the Commonwealth Banks Act the funds would be advanced to the Bank as required and on terms and conditions to be agreed between the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the board of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. 
As honourable members will be well aware, the Government has taken a number of measures over recent months to increase bank liquidity and requested banks to increase their rate of lending. Trading banks have been responding accordingly and in the 3 months to 8 January 1 975 the rate of new trading bank lending approvals more than doubled that for the previous 3 months. Information available suggests that the rural sector is sharing in the general increase in lending. Trading banks are now generally in a position to meet demand from beef producers able to meet normal commercial banking criteria. However, the sharp decline in cattle prices meant that a number of specialised beef producers would be unable to satisfy the normal borrowing criteria of the trading banks. 
The Development Bank in normal circumstances does not provide carry-on finance but the board of the Corporation has . welcomed the Government's initiative and agreed that, in the case of cattle producers whose income is wholly or preponderantly derived from cattle, the Bank would stand ready to provide assistance by way of medium or long-term loans to those producers whose capital structures have been seriously affected by-recent trends in cattle prices but who, in the opinion of the bank, still remain viable. In accordance with its banking charter the Development Bank would have regard primarily to the prospects, of the applicant becoming, or continuing to be, successful rather than the value of the security available. The funds so provided by the Bank to producers would, in the normal course, flow back to the traditional carry-on lenders to the industry enabling them to provide greater assistance to their clients. 
The former Treasurer and the Minister for Agriculture on 4 December 1974 stated that the Development Bank stood ready to provide additional loans to eligible cattle producers immediately, in anticipation of the appropriation being approved by Parliament. In line with this policy the Development Bank had already approved loans of $2.4m up to 5 February 1975 to assist specialist beef producers. According to the Development Bank the eastern mainland States are obtaining the bulk of approvals, and Queensland has had more money approved than any other State. Furthermore, where applications have been received from persons who are involved in the industry but who cannot be accepted as specialist beef producers, the Development Bank is looking for ways to assist within its normal policy and a further $ 1.5m has been made available to these producers. In addition, over the past 2 months, the Development Bank has deferred loan repayments aggregating nearly $800,000 on accounts of existing beef producer borrowers. In little over 2 months, therefore, the Development Bank has provided direct or indirect assistance to beef producers totalling $4.7m. 
Honourable members will recall that the augmentation of the Bank 's resources was but one of a series of measures designed to assist the industry in its present difficulties. Other measures, such as negotiations aimed at re-opening and developing overseas markets, are being pursued as a matter of urgency in conjunction with the increased Development Bank activity referred to above. In addition, as previously announced, the Government has the beef situation under close scrutiny and stands ready to review the needs for further assistance and to provide additional funds if necessary. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
The Family Law Bill is one of the most discriminatory, ill-considered and badly drafted Bills ever to be introduced into this Parliament. It discriminates against women and against those men and women who do not want their marriages to be dissolved at the whim of the other party to the marriage. Many leaders in the community from the professions, among social workers and in the churches have pointed to the changes which will be introduced into the nature of marriage and threaten the stability of the family if this Bill is passed without amendment. 
The Bill proceeds on the basis that men and women are equal in the matrimonial situation. It is a fact of life that in marriage the longer it lasts the women's independence, and particularly her economic ability to fend for herself, become less. This element is wholly overlooked by this Bill. It fails to give women the protection and support to which they are entitled as wives and mothers of the future generation of Australians. It takes away from women the security and legal safeguards of the present law and, in the guise of enabling marriages which have broken down irretrievably to be dissolved with dignity, enables all marriages to be dissolved on the unilateral decision of either party on 12 months notice. Do the people of Australia want such a law that will reduce marriage to a purely temporary union with little or no protection for women and children? 
Let me highlight the effect of clause 6 of the Bill, which provides: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered into in a place outside Australia, shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
This clause cuts all ties with the traditional view of marriage as a monogamous union according to law, of a man and woman to the exclusion of all others, voluntarily entered into for life. An Australian married man could go to a Moslem country that recognises polygamy and go through a form of marriage which would be perfectly legal in that country.  His  'wife'- I put that word in inverted commas- would thereby become entitled to obtain entry into Australia and to enjoy all the benefits of social security, widow's pension and deserted wife's pension, the same as his first legal wife. This could be done without the consent of his first wife and her only redress would be to seek a divorce herself and then only after being required to suffer the indignity of being a polygamous wife for 12 months. 
The Family Law Bill deals broadly with 3 aspects: The dissolution of the marriage tie; the resolution of ancillary matters between the parties either before or after the dissolution of the marriage; and the creation of a Federal Family Court. The dissolution of marriage is to be based on the one and only ground that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. There is no inquiry to be held on whether in fact the marriage has broken down, but the Bill provides that the ground shall be held to be established where it is proved that the parties to the marriage have lived separately and apart for a period of not less than 12 months. 
The fatal flaw in the Bill is not to be found in the counselling or reconciliation provisions or the maintenance and property clauses however weakening they may be. The Achilles heel of this Bill is found in clauses 48 and 49. Under the guise of enabling persons whose marriages have failed, this Bill provides, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated in his second reading speech on 28 November 1974 as reported at page 4823 of Hansard of that date:  to have the marriage dissolved without having to be put to the additional distress of making formal, undignified charges against the other party that that pam 's cruelty or adultery or wilful desertion was the cause of the breakdown, and because of it that party deserves to be divorced. 
The whole nature of marriage is altered. Spouses become disposable at will. Deserted wives are supported provided they are not big, healthy, independent persons and the offspring become latch-key children. These provisions are deceitful in their glib disguise of a fundamental change of the philosophy of marriage and the family. 
No-one would dispute that there are areas of the law which ought to be reformed, but many reforms are just as readily achieved within the framework of the present BDI. 
It is dishonest to suggest that marriage remains unaltered by this Bill. The Family Law Bill turns marriage into a cheap, temporary union which may be dissolved on the unilateral decision of one party. It creates a climate which will lead to a light-hearted approach to marriage. I suggest that this Parliament should be doing more to instruct people in their responsibilities before marriage. Under the cloak of removing injustice, humiliation and indignity from divorce, new injustices, new humiliations and new indignities are being created. What could be more humiliating more unjust, or cause greater distress and hurt to a spouse than to be abandoned without cause by his or her partner merely at the whim of such partner as a matter of convenience on 12 months' notice? This is not divorce because the marriage has irretrievably or otherwise broken down; it is the destruction of marriage by abandonment. We have reached the ultimate in the disposable society in this Bill. The law will sanction the dissolution of marriage by abandonment for 12 months. The other spouse must accept it, whatever the frustrations or hurts involved. There are no defences. Marriage will become the only mutual contract the law sanctions which can be cancelled unilaterally. 
Claims have been made by ex-Senator Murphy and others that Part III of the Bill-the marriage counselling and reconciliation provisions- represents a major advance in the law. The fact is that marriage counselling can be successful only if the 2 persons involved want their marriage to work. The Bill does not, and indeed cannot force an unwilling party to attend for counselling.  Mr Basil  Hogan, LL.B., a barrister with the widest experience in matrimonial causes and specialising in divorce, has said: 
I do not know of a single case where a marriage has been saved by the use of marriage counselling provisions contained in the present Act. My experience is shared by most practitioners who deal with divorces on a daily basis. 
There is no substantial difference between the provisions in the present Act and the proposed provisions. In any event, the ease with which a divorce can be obtained under clause 48 of the Bill undermines any serious attempt at the application of the proposed provisions. There is even less incentive under the Bill to achieve reconciliation than exists under the present law. I predict with confidence that, just as the present system of marriage counselling has failed where one party has wanted to terminate the marriage, so the system proposed in clauses 14 to 19 of the Bill will fail. How ludicrous it is to have such a procedure as that contemplated by clause 15 (1), where a party to a marriage can file in the Family Court a notice stating that he or she intends to seek the assistance of the counselling facilities of the Family Court. What would any husband or wife do if served with such a notice when the marriage was already shaky? It is an open invitation to terminate the marriage by notice. There is no sanction for refusing to participate in counselling and there is no way of obliging the other party to take any advice given by counsellors. 
Part IV of the Bill deals with the formation and constitution of a Federal court to be known as the Family Court of Australia. To this Court is to be entrusted the jurisdiction set out in clause 31, namely: 
1 ) The Family Court has jurisdiction in- 
a ) matrimonial causes instituted or continued under this Act; 
proceedings instituted or continued under the Marriage Act 1961-1973, other than proceedings under Part VII of that Act; 
matters arising under a law of a Territory concerning 
the adoption of children; 
the guardianship, custody or maintenance of children; or 
payments of a kind referred to in section 109; and 
matters in which jurisdiction is conferred on it by a law made by the Parliament. 
Subject to such restrictions and conditions (if any) as are contained in the regulations, the jurisdiction of the Family Court may be exercised in relation to persons or things outside Australia and the Territories. 
The Court will of necessity be located in the capital cities and will not have jurisdiction over the adoption of children, guardianship, property matters and trustee matters relating to children in the States which fall under State jurisdictions. It will be impossible for judges of the Family Court to get around vast areas of the Australian countryside on circuit as the State Supreme Court judges do. What is to happen to divorce petitions in Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill or Mount Isa? Are these petitioners to be required to apply to Perth, Sydney and Brisbane respectively to have their marriages dissolved? Or is it envisaged that there will be appointed a large number of additional judges, both big and small, with their attendant entourages? How is the public better served by a Federal court if it results in delays and extra expense and inconvenience in obtaining divorces? There will be a dual system of courts in any event and a large number of Federal judges will have to be appointed at vast expense to the taxpayer and with no visible benefit to anybody, to do work that could be done by the State Supreme Courts. 
What are the likely social and economic consequences for the community of this Bill? The first consequence will be an increase in the number of divorces in the community. The United Kingdom figures demonstrated this very clearly. Secondly, the provision of support services and court structures will impose a financial burden on the community. Thirdly, the parties to broken marriages will suffer financial and emotional burdens in making new homes and establishing new personal relationships. Fourthly, the consequences of broken homes on children of such marriages will be increased in proportion to the numbers involved. They will suffer the psychological damage of family collapse, the loss of security, torn affections and both emotional and material disturbance. 
Socially, the community suffers directly as more of its individual components as recognised by the United Nations- the family- manifest partial or total collapse. Indirectly, the community suffers as a family collapse contributes to an erosion of those values which buttress marriage and family. Financially, the community is obliged to bear a substantial portion of the direct costs of family breakdown. They are: Firstly, the maintenance of those parties and their children unable to support themselves without social security assistance; secondly, the administrative costs associated with increased demands upon either the existing legal system or the establishment of the Family Court of Australia; thirdly, the increased demands upon the Australian Legal Aid Office, as is provided for in clause 117(3) and (4); fourthly, the probable increased demand for child care centres; and, fifthly, the increased demand for services to deal with the psychological and physical ill-health of disadvantaged one-parent families. Indirectly the community bears an even greater financial burden- the costs of the anti-social behaviour and the costs of the new generation of unstable marriages which become evident as the children of broken homes reach adulthood. The  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs,  Senator James  McClelland, summarised the situation succinctly when he said at a meeting of the Committee on 11 September 1974: 
After all, it is a drastic and quite dramatic alteration to the existing legal concept; somebody has to pay for it. 
We all know who ends up paying- the taxpayer. 
The drafting of the Bill leaves much to be desired; there are many instances of ambiguities, obscurity and meaningless clauses. Under clause 43 the judges of the Family Court are directed to have regard to a number of principles in exercising their jurisdiction. They sound like excellent guidelines but in practice they are meaningless since under clause 48 (2) the Court has no discretion to refuse a decree for dissolution of marriage where there is proof of 12 months separation. Clause 48 (3) is also meaningless because there will be no inquiry by the Court into the circumstances of the marriage. Similarly, the matters to be taken into consideration under clause 75 on maintenance proceedings are badly drafted. Clause 75 (2) (f) is ridiculous. It provides that the Court shall take into account the eligibility for social security benefits when determining maintenance, regardless of the wealth of the husband. I can give further examples. All these meaningless clauses and drafting errors appear in a Bill which has been the subject of Senate committee investigations and over 100 amendments during debate in the Senate. The Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted by competent draftsmen. I think it is fair to add that my information and reading suggest that the Parliamentary Counsel's staff had little to do with the drafting of the Bill. In the evidence of the Committee tabled in the Senate on 24 October 1974 at page 135 one will find a quotation from  Mr Watson,  Q.C. I do not have time to read it. I appreciate that there is little prospect of a resolution to withdraw and redraft the Bill being carried, and I do not move that way. However, I also appreciate that there are many honourable members in the House who are greatly concerned with the flaws that appear in the Bill. To give all an opportunity of expressing a firm and considered opinion I move:  that all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill should give expression to the following principles: 
that the family is the basic and stable unit of the Australian society; 
that marriage should be buttressed; 
that marriage should be permanent and secure; 
that full and proper recognition be given to the status and rights of a woman as wife and mother; 
that there should be full and proper protection of the wife and children in the event of the dissolution of a marriage; 
that there is need for children to be reared and cared for by a present parent; and 
that marriage should be dissolved only when a Court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than 2 years. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 41 which appeared in Hansard, 3 October 1974, pages 2249-2255. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is yes. 
I did see a small item, characteristically distorted, about a statement issued by  Senator Rae.  Indeed, one must suppress any sign of surprise at the Opposition's quite incredible - (Honourable members interjecting) - 
For the information of honourable members I present a record of decisions of the 16th annual conference of the Tourist Ministers' Council held at Sydney on 18 October 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On 21 December 1973 I announced grants totalling $100,000 to the Australian Youth Hostels Association for the provision of low cost accommodation in a number of areas. Included in this amount was a grant of $20,000 to provide low cost accommodation at Bunbury, Western Australia. I understand that this project will not now be proceeding. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I apologise for the absence of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who is engaged on urgent and important discussions. This Bill provides for the borrowing of $4m and its application for the continued operation of the war service land settlement scheme. The sum sought is the amount estimated to be required for the scheme in 1975-76. Of the total, it is estimated that $2m will be required for the operation of the scheme in South Australia, $1.2m in Western Australia and $800,000 in Tasmania. In respect of other States, Queensland withdrew from the scheme in the early 1950s and the Australian Government's obligations to New South Wales and Victoria are limited, by agreement, to the financing of certain operational losses. 
The bulk of expenditure for which funds are now sought is for the provision of short term loans to soldier settlers for working capital, stock and replacement plant and equipment as part of the normal operation of the settlers' properties. A small amount is for the development of drainage works serving settler blocks in the Loxton settlement area in South Australia. I commend the Bill to the honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
The 3 speeches that have just been delivered, one after the other, were completely predictable. They were made by upholders of private enterprise requesting help from the state to get them out of their difficulties and asking for socialistic policies to be applied to the beef industry. It is a typical attitude that is taken by the bovine, bucolic members of the Country Party . When things are going well private enterprise reigns supreme. When the beef producers happen to run into difficulty, which is something the Opposition cannot blame us for, as we did not lower beef prices - 
That had a very infinitesimal effect. 
-No one should adopt the attitude of the Queensland Premier if he wants to seh goods to Japan or any other country. We have to bear in mind that this scheme has been in operation since December. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, made a big song and dance about the $20m. He should have read my second reading speech. In the penultimate paragraph I said: 
In addition, as previously announced, the Government has the beef situation under close scrutiny and stands ready to review the need for further assistance and to provide additional funds if necessary. 
If the honourable member for Cowper bothers to study the facts he will find that the Commonwealth Development Bank had approved to 12 February a total of $3m for beef producers. The rate of applications is increasing and in the week ending 12 February the amount of $600,000 was granted. 
It is over all Australia. Members of the Opposition talk about producers being viable who are principally relying on beef. I ask members of the Country Party and members of the Liberal Party who represent rural electorates to deny the fact that a lot of farmers went into beef producing when the price was right. When the price fell they got their fingers burned. They are mixed farmers, and farmers quite often take the attitude of going into the most lucrative field when the price is right. The bottom fell out of the beef market and now members of the Australian Country Party are all complaining and want a socialistic scheme to apply to every farmer in the land. What we have done in this Bill was done fairly swiftly and in accordance with requests from rural industry. It came into operation from the time it was announced and is now beginning to operate quite well. Have no doubt that this Government will protect the interests of the rural people as well as it is trying to protect the interests of the manufacturing industries. We all appreciate that the rural industries must be preserved in Australia. 
We are doing it. We have granted $20m and it still has not been used and more will be available if it is required. If one reads the Bill one will see that it is proposed to assist those who can continue to exist in the beef producing industry. The Opposition suggests that we should be propping up inefficient beef producers. It is a suggestion with which we could not possibly agree. If the beef industry is to continue to operate in Australia- we all hope that it does- we must have beef producers who are efficient. There will be fluctuations in prices of rural products all the time, so the man in the rural industry must be able to bear some of those fluctuations. 
In which way does the honourable member want us to help- by subsidising every farm, inefficient and otherwise, or by subsidising those farms that are in difficulty now but demonstrate that they can get themselves out of that difficulty with the little assistance we are giving them? This scheme will continue to operate. More money will be made available if necessary and I am certain that if the Country Party and the rural industries- the beef producers- can produce evidence which shows that the beef producer needs greater assistance or needs some amendment to the provisions of this Bill, we will grant it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, I claim to have been misrepresented. My motives during the whole of the debate on this Bill have been construed and misrepresented by people who support the Bill. The purpose of my amendment, which was seconded by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  was to allow this Housethe people's House; a democratic House- to express a point of view. It asks for an expression of opinion of this House on family matters and on divorce. Because of the misconstruction which has been quite deliberately placed upon that amendment I sought advice and moved the contingency motion. It is not my intention, nor the intention of any of those who believe that the family is the basic unit of any country, to prevent this Bill from entering the Committee stage. I should like to make it absolutely and perfectly clear that if the Bill is prevented from entering the Committee stage it will not be the responsibility of those who support me in the amendment that I have moved. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a question of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1974-75 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Employers implementing fitness programs and building recreation facilities for their employees are eligible to apply for deductions under the general taxation provisions. As a general rule items of a capital nature are not allowable as income tax deductions, although such items would be depreciable, at rates up to 3314% if used principally to provide recreational facilities for employees. 
To complement the existing provision, my Department plans to inquire into the most appropriate ways of creating an awareness of the need to provide recreational opportunities in industry. It is emphasised that the direction of any programs involved for recreation in industry will come through close consultation with industry groups. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In the 1 972 election speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  it was foreshadowed that moves would be made to license overseas and interstate travel agents operating in Australia. Shortly after the Government assumed office, action was taken to commence the preparation of appropriate national legislation the basis of which was to be the protection of consumer interests. Ensuing discussions with the State Governments and travel industry organisations revealed general support for such legislation. In their operations, travel agents are principally engaged in the sale of both domestic and international bookings on all forms of transport and on package tours which generally include travel, sightseeing and accommodation. For providing this service travel agents receive a commission on sales. Accurate information is not available at present regarding the financial magnitude of travel agency operations in Australia, although recent estimates have it that the gross commissionable sales of international and domestic air travel by agents during the last financial year were of the order of $400m. 
At present the main constraints on travel . agents are associated with the accreditation requirements of the major air and sea carriers and travel industry associations. Indirectly, the various accreditation systems have benefited travellers because the systems, particularly those of carriers, maintain standards relating to such factors as financial stability, turnover and experience. Bonding is an integral part of accreditation. However, its prime purpose is to protect the interests of carriers not travellers; travellers must rely on the goodwill of carriers to look after their interests. There are no reliable statistics on the number of businesses operating ostensibly as travel agents although conservative estimates suggest around 1500 agencies throughout Australia. Of this number, less than 50 per cent would have any recognised accreditation to support their operations. 
From my knowledge of the travel trade, I am convinced that the vast majority of travel agents conduct their businesses by reasonable and sensible standards having due regard to the interests of both clients and principals. However, because of the actions of some irresponsible people, the reputation of travel agents is clouded not only to outsiders but also to those within the travel industry. All the efforts of travel industry organisations such as the Australian Federation of Travel Agents and the International Air Transport Association to enforce their codes of ethics have so far proved ineffective in preventing agency failures. While the number of failures has been small, the impact on those affected has been considerable. 
To stress the tragic implications of agency failures for travellers, it is worth highlighting one of the more outstanding recent failures. Some honourable members will no doubt recall the spectacle pf the collapse of Travel House of Australia during 1972. When the company closed its doors hundreds of travellers were stranded throughout the world and many were unable to take that overseas trip for which they had already paid. In addition to losing their money many travellers were subjected to gross inconvenience and had to seek assistance from Australian missions overseas. Investigations by the Victorian Attorney-General revealed that the company had accumulated debts amounting to $774,000 and had realisable assets worth less than $100,000. It was found the company's affairs had been grossly mismanaged and clients' funds had been misused. It is time, therefore, that the members of the community can turn to travel agents confident in the knowledge that they are dealing with professional people bound by codes and practices which uphold their interests. Travel industry organisations have tried to develop such confidence, but since they have been unable to enforce those standards aimed at achieving this they looked to the Government for assistance. The Bill could thus be seen as a response to industry needs quite apart from its consumer protection emphasis. 
State Governments have indicated that they favour a uniform Act and, with the exception of New South Wales, have agreed not to introduce separate legislation if Australian Government legislation is satisfactory. In the case of New South Wales, that Government felt its citizens needed protection against travel agents in the interim- I agree with that- and, therefore, proceeded to introduce its legislation which was implemented last year. I should add at this stage that the then New South Wales Minister for Tourism, now the Premier, has stated that if national legislation were introduced and it were acceptable to the New South Wales Government, then the New South Wales legislation would be allowed to lapse. The legislation has been developed after lengthy and detailed discussions with the travel industry and the States. I have endeavoured to include all the points raised, provided they meet the basic objective of protecting the travelling public. At the same time I have sought to avoid imposing such harsh and stringent controls as to cause a major disruption to the travel industry. The result has been a complex piece of legislation. It requires careful study to be fully understood. It is important therefore that the Bill be subject to close public scrutiny and I would be prepared to consider suggestions or amendments designed to improve the legislation. However, I would like to have these submissions before me before the debate on the Bill resumes early next month. 
I would like to provide some brief comments on the principal elements of the Bill. Part I defines the business of a travel agent. In summary, the definition covers persons who, in their normal course of business, undertake or offer to arrange travel and/or accommodation and meals for other persons involving the use of facilities they do not own. Charter and tour operators are specifically included as travel agents because, although they are principals in marketing tours, their operations involve the use of facilities which do not belong to them. Whilst this definition can be interpreted widely, it is not intended to cover certain activities and in order to exclude them appropriate exemption provisions are incorporated. For example, the legislation will not apply normally to principals provided they offer to the public only services or facilities they own. The appointment of the Registrar of Travel Agents is also provided for under Part I. The Registrar will be engaged under the Public Service Act and his main functions will be to assist the proposed Travel Agents Regulation Board in administering the legislation. 
Part TT provides for the establishment of the Travel Agents Regulation Board which will be primarily responsible for the administration of the legislation. The Board will comprise 3 parttime members, namely a chairman, with a legal background, a departmental representative and another member who will have a knowledge of and experience concerning the business of travel agents. The Board will be assisted in its work by staff from my Department. For the convenience of enabling decisions to be made without continual reference to the Board, provision has been made for the Board to delegate powers and functions to the Registrar or staff. Part III is a key section of the Bill. It outlines various restrictions on conducting a travel agency and specifies penalties which will result from contravention of the different provisions. 
The question of penalties was the subject of particular attention during drafting of the Bill. To maximise the effect of consumer protection, onerous penalties have been provided for in this Part and in other Parts of the Bill as a deterrent to malpractices by agents. I would point out also that Pan III embodies a fundamental principle which is developed in later Parts of the Bill, namely that each authorised travel agency premises will have to be under the immediate control of a registered travel agent manager unless the Board approves otherwise. The concept underlying this principle is that a person competent in travel matters will be responsible for the maintenance of statutory standards within the agency at all times. Part IV is concerned with the registration of travel agent managers and the licensing of travel agencies. Individuals will be registered as travel agent managers on the basis of integrity and expertise in travel matters. Registration is an integral part of the principle of travel agency management. Through registration, it is envisaged that rninimum standards for qualifications and experience will be established which should lead to a higher degree of professionalism in the conduct of persons engaged in travel matters. 
On the other hand, travel businesses- that is, agencies- will be licensed on the basis of financial stability and the business integrity of the owners. Licensing will be the principal device used to control the activities of travel agencies. In essence, without a licence, no person, partnership or company will be allowed to operate a travel agency. Provided an applicant for a licence meets the necessary criteria, the Board will approve the licence. However, the licensee will not be able to conduct the agency unless he is a registered travel agent manager or until he engages the services of a registered travel agent manager to supervise the business. The Bill requires that all travel agency premises will be licensed, therefore, in cases where an organisation owns several agencies, each location will have to be licensed separately. Part V deals with the accounts and records which licensees will be required to maintain. The provisions are designed to ensure that proper accounts are kept, that clients' funds are used for the purpose for which they were paid to an agent and also to bring a degree of uniformity in accounting methods adopted by agencies. 
Agents will be required to open an account with a bank and deposit into it all moneys received from or on behalf of clients. The account will be subject to regular audit and also scrutiny by authorised officers of the Board. Some honourable members will no doubt be prompted to ask why trust accounting provisions are not specified. Before proceeding to develop the accounts provisions, various policy options, including trust accounts, were carefully studied. Having regard to the objectives of the legislation, travel industry practices and the practical application of trust accounts it was decided to avoid the use of trust accounts in their strictest sense. It was felt that the most sensible approach would be to devise accounting arrangements which would require moneys exchanged between travel agents and their clients to be channelled through a statutory account. 
An important point which should be stressed is that this Bill provides for the stringent supervision of accounts and records. Wide powers are given to the Travel Agents Regulation Board and the Registrar to ensure that accounts and records are properly maintained. I am satisfied that the legislation provides ample protection of clients' moneys in travel agents' statutory accounts. Trust accounts would afford no greater protection but would be more costly to administer. In addition, there is the protection of the proposed fidelity fund. 
Under Part VI, the duties of licensed travel agents in their dealings with clients and principals are outlined. The key requirement is for the agent 'to exercise due care, skill or diligence in acting for a client'. The failure by an agent to observe his statutory obligation will be dealt with by the Board which could order, among other penalties, revocation of a licence. Provision has been made for the Board to consider legitimate grievances against licensees or registered travel agents managers. 
Parts VII and VIII are mainly concerned with procedural matters associated with cancellation of the registration of a travel agent manager, the surrender or cancellation of licences and the conduct of inquiries by the Board. Honourable members will find the various provisions of this part self-explanatory. 
So far the Bill has concentrated on supporting the interests of and promoting the rights of travellers- and to a degree principals. Part LX seeks to protect the rights of those persons seeking approval to operate as travel agents and those persons already authorised to operate as such, by allowing them the right of appeal to a tribunal. 
Part X provides for the issue of permits for the temporary supervision of an agency, for example, in the event of the death of a licensee. A permit may be subject to special conditions as determined by the Board. 
Part XI is another important area and relates solely to the establishment and maintenance of the Travel Agents Fidelity Fund. The purpose of the fund is to compensate travellers for financial losses suffered because of the activities of travel agents. The fund, which will be administered by the Board, is seen as the ultimate protection that can be afforded the interests of agents' clients. The resources of the fund will initially be raised using deposits contributed by licensed travel agents. Details of the size of the fund and the amount of the deposit licensees will be required to contribute are to be covered in the regulations. 
It is intended that the fund should be selfperpetuating and in order to achieve this the Board will be empowered to invest the resources of the fund. In time, the growth of the fund through investment could ease the financial obligations of licensed travel agents towards maintaining the fund. In the event that the resources of the fund are depleted due to successive agency failures, the Board will be able to make a levy on licensees. In this way the fund can be maintained at a level such that additional claims for compensation can be met. Only certain types of financial losses will be eligible for compensation under the Fidelity Fund. The various categories are covered under clause 91. For each category, the loss sustained must be related to a failure on the part of an agent to properly discharge his obligations to a client. Compensation will not be payable unless it can be shown that a travel agent failed in his obligations under the Act and the licence of a travel agent was subsequently suspended, revoked, cancelled or expires and not renewed. It will be appreciated that the Bill provides for the travel agent to exercise due care, skill and diligence. 
Honourable members will note that compensation will not be payable for every conceivable circumstance or 'loss' which a person may suffer. A claim on the Fund must be for the actual pecuniary loss suffered. By this, I mean that travellers must accept that during the course of a tour, certain events or additional costs may be imposed upon them over which an agent has no control whatsoever and could not reasonably be held to blame. Claims for damages in respect of inconvenience, ill health, etc., will not be allowed. Some limit needs to operate to enable the Fund to meet claims arising from several failures at any particular time. For this purpose, it is proposed that in respect of any one defaulting licensed travel agent a limit be prescribed in the regulations on the total amount which may be paid out to cover the aggregate amount of claims for compensation. Honourable members will note that the Board may direct a claimant to institute proceedings against a licensee to ensure all avenues of recourse open to the claimant have been properly pursued. The costs of such proceedings will be borne by the Fund. In the event of an overpayment on a claim, the Board will be able to institute its own proceedings against a claimant or the former licensee to recover the amount. 
Finally, I come to Part XII of the Bill. This Part covers a number of miscellaneous matters regarding the conduct of an agent or licensee and the general administration of the legislation. For example, if the Board has refused a person registration as a travel agent manager on the grounds that he was not a person of business integrity or has had his registration revoked then a licensee must not knowingly employ that person unless the approval of the Board is obtained. This provision clearly seeks to protect the public interest against those persons whose competence or integrity in the arrangement of travel are questionable. In relation to administration, specific provision is made to exempt the Board's operations from taxation liability- the provision is in the usual form for statutory bodies.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bm be now read a second Lime. 
This Bill is a supplementary measure to the Travel Agents Bill 1975 and should therefore be read in conjunction with that Bill. This Bill is necessary to ensure the validity of the deposits and levies provisions of the Travel Agents Bill with regard to the Fidelity Fund.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
Unlike the honourable member who asked the question, I am not quite old enough yet to take up playing lawn bowls. I appreciate that lawn bowls clubs in Australia have a large male and female membership and that in some States the opportunities to participate in the playing of lawn bowls are far greater than those in other States. In New South Wales a number of licensed clubs participate in lawn bowls. They are assisted not only by membership fees but also by the takings from poker machines. In other States people cannot participate in the game of lawn bowls quite as readily. Under our Government's policy State governments and local governments are encouraged to establish community facilities. I believe the honourable member will find that in some of the other States some local government authorities are prepared to provide such facilities not only for the elderly but also for the young. 
Lawn bowls has some remarkable advantages. It can be played by the young and the old. It is generally a mixed sport with males and females playing together. It can, as the honourable member suggested, have the advantage of bringing elderly people back into the community, giving them an interest and even helping them to recover from some of their illnesses. The honourable member can be certain that whilst I am Minister for Tourism and Recreation- after what has happened to the Liberal Party of Australia in the last few weeks I expect that to be a long time- subjects such as the provision of bowling greens in local government areas will be considered very seriously by the Government and that there will be co-operation with the State governments and the local governments to provide these facilities. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is the staffing position as at11 February 1975. 
87. 
The following is the break-up by classification, division and salary: 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. In today's issue of the 'Australian' is an article headed 'How they voted on family bill'. It goes on to say: 'The following members of the House of Representatives yesterday voted in favour of the second reading of the Family Law Bill'. It lists a number of names. It then states: 'The following members voted no; ', and lists a number of names. It goes on further to say: 'The following members were absent or abstained from voting: '. In that list of members the 4 tellers are listed as having abstained from voting. So, taking that as the measure of the accuracy of this article, I should like to point out, as the House well knows, that when the question was put that the Bill be read a second time no division was taken. If the reporter who wrote this article wishes to know more about procedures inthe House I certainly would be prepared to inform him. But I cannot but feel that this is part of the program against some of us who wish to see certain sections of the Family Law Bill amended and that this is a deliberate campaign to distort our motives. 
I am aware of the accident that happened to the football player in Victoria last weekend. I regret the incident very much. My Department is looking at the matter at the moment to see whether there is any possible way of assisting  Mr Sasche  and his family. 
I am quite correct in saying that the honourable member has based his question on false premises. The inflation rate in the United Kingdom is running at about 19.8 per cent at the moment and the people of the United Kingdom are not at all happy with the measures that have been adopted by the Treasurer there. As a matter of fact, it would be true to say that he has almost adopted the policies that are being enunciated by the Liberal and Country Parties in this Parliament. It seems to me that the concentration of the Liberal and Country Parties in this Parliament is to create doom and recession and to create further unemployment. The measures that the Australian Government has taken have been taken, firstly, to endeavour to curb inflation, and secondly, to reduce unemployment. But for the drastic and stupid policies adopted by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in its last couple of years of office, the Whitlam Government would not now be faced with the enormous problems that confront Australia. 
-No report predicting the sort of inflation rate mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition has been given to me or to Cabinet. 
-No, it was not. No such report has been issued by Treasury to either the Treasurer or to me as Acting Treasurer. We are seeking advice from Treasury and other economic experts as to what can be done in the next Budget. We will be having our Budget Cabinet discussions during June and July and at that stage we will be adopting policies which will endeavour to curb the rate of inflation and reduce unemployment. 
On behalf of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide the legislative authority for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office. The proposal is new. It is entirely consistent with the Government's determination to assist at all levels the day-to-day activities of all Australians. Insurance is, or should be, an essential concern for every citizen. Disasters in Brisbane and Darwin have demonstrated this in tragic and costly ways. The victims and the insurers are now harshly aware of this. The AGIO will be a factor in helping to alleviate similar situations in the future. The AGIO in the field of commercial insurance will encourage fair- and I stress 'fair' -competition and development of a superior service to the ordinary householder and home owner in Australia. It will assert an influence in insurance in the way in which the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has for years in its field. It is a long time since the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has been questioned or challenged by any member of any party in either chamber of the Australian Parliament. The advent of the AGIO will mean the widest possible range of insurance at the lowest possible premiums. The beneficiaries will be the Australian people. 
Apart from activity in the normal fields covered by insurance companies now operating in Australia, the AGIO will be the agent for and adviser to the Australian Government on the provision of non-commercial insurance which is now not covered by any insurance office in Australia. In this role the AGIO will facilitate the provision of natural disasters coverage for all Australians. At the same time, the AGIO can open the way to the provision of more widespread insurance coverage against livestock and crop losses arising out of natural disasters. Risk estimation will undoubtedly require extensive study in which private insurers should be encouraged to participate and contribute. In this field the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office will not be operating on a normal commercial basis, nor will it be in competition with existing organisations. It will, for the first time, consider providing an essential and desirable public service to all Australians, and in particular to the man on the land and others who require special types of insurance cover not generally available in the existing insurance structure. Commercial companies have not answered this challenge or fundamental need in the long years of their operation. 
In its general and life insurance business the AGIO will be structured and will operate on competitive and commercial lines. Any claim that it will be given an unfair advantage over its competitors is wrong. As with private companies, it will be subject to all Australian and State taxes. Similarly, if it is to receive concessional taxation treatment on its earnings, the AGIO will be required to observe the 30-20 rule. In other words, the Government's objective is to place the Australian Government Insurance Office in activities other than national interest insurance on the same footing as commercial insurance companies. 
It will provide to the people of Australia the same services at competitive rates as existing companies and in some instances services additional to those already available. There are some- and they belong to the industry rather than the millions whom the industry serviceswho claim that this proposal for the establishment of the AGIO is an intrusion into the private sector. Those critics, and many of the more thoughtless members of the Opposition who seem to have been convinced by them, should be reminded that the Australian Government over many years, not just under the Australian Labor Party, has been heavily involved in the insurance field. Private insurers are already dependent on the Australian Government for the continuing stability of their businesses. Despite a massive campaign directed at honourable members opposite, they are dissembling in failing to acknowledge this. One example only is the favourable taxation treatment ' afforded to the life insurance offices as compared with other financial institutions at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. They know that up to $ 1 ,200 of income is not taxable if paid into life insurance or superannuation. They have been to the doors of Ministers of this Government to ensure that that preference remains. This taxation inducement, worth an estimated $180m annually, has been one of the most significant factors responsible for the large increase in the numbers of policy holders in recent years. 
The insurance offices have long held to the old myths and have refused to face new realities. Life offices have not adjusted to changing conditions in recent years. Some have not had a socially responsible investment policy- as is clearly evidenced by their concentration on office buildings and other real estate for development projects largely for speculative purposes. The annual reports of the Life Insurance Commissioner demonstrate this clearly. Investment of the statutory funds of life offices in property rose from 8 per cent in 1963 to 18 per cent in 1973. On the other hand, housing loans fell from 12 per cent in 1963 to 6 per cent in 1973. In fact, the incentives and protections provided by the Aus.tralian Government have built the insurers into a colossus, propped up and dependent on the Aus.tralian Government. The life offices seem not to appreciate, or perhaps appreciate all too well, their dependence on the Australian Government. As soon as the winds of change begin to blow, this colossus immediately complains of its illtreatment. Clearly, closer interaction between the insurance industry and Government is required, and within the next few weeks the first in a series of meetings between the Australian Government and the insurers will take place. These consultative committees, as they will be known, will be chaired by the Treasurer and will lead to a better understanding and appreciation of problems which need to be faced in relation to insurance in Australia. I hope this is so despite the fact that the alarmist and extravagant reaction of sections of the insurance industry to the establishment of the AGIO gives no confidence that there will be a cool and rational examination of the problem. 
General insurance is regulated by the Insurance Act 1973 and the passage of the legislation was supported by the general insurance companies. Its purpose is to regulate the industry. One of its effects is to restrict the entry of new competitors into the field of general insurance, thereby assisting existing companies to remain viable. Government involvement in insurance is not new. Might I remind honourable members opposite that State government insurance offices have long been involved- profitably and effectivelyin the field of insurance. Policy holders have benefited and private insurers have been given salutary competition and have not suffered from this involvement. This is despite earlier claims- hysterical claims- that the establishment of State government offices would lead to a monopoly forcing private insurers out of business. I need not add that these predictions sound empty in retrospect. Two most successful government insurance offices, both providing general insurance and life insurance, are operating in Queensland and New South Wales- non-Labor States for many years. What State-operated offices have achieved has been the discouragement of management practices among private insurers which are to the financial detriment of their pOliCy holders. I refer to the expensive practice of obtaining business through agents, and reliance on competitive salesmanship rather than competitive premiums. 
The next question is whether State government insurance offices provide an adequate system of insurance for all Australians. The answer varies from State to State. In New South Wales and Queensland all types of insurance, including life, are available. However, in the remaining States only general insurance is provided. In Victoria not even housing insurance is available. No State office currently provides adequate coverage for natural disasters such as floods or earthquakes. To the extent, therefore, that State government insurance offices engender a more competitive climate as regards premiums in their respective States, people may still be prejudiced because of their residence in a particular State where SGIO activities are not as comprehensive as elsewhere. Where services are lacking the AGIO will provide them. Its estabishment does not mean that private or State offices will disappear, or even decline. The situation is analogous to the foundation of the Commonwealth Bank in 1912. State banks have continued to grow and prosper in all States except Queensland. Even more, the Commonwealth Bank was able to meet the obligations of the New South Wales Government Savings Bank after it collapsed in 1931. Private banks have also grown strongly and diversified their activities. The situation should be no different with the Government's insurance activities. 
The Australian Government Insurance Office can go further than this. It can become a leader in its field in Australia- on behalf of the Aus.tralian people. While our present insurance system in some instances leads to the channelling of Australian money to foreign countries through overseas firms now dominant here, a vigorous Australian Government enterprise, through reciprocal activities in the re-insurance field, will attract foreign insurance business to Austalia's advantage. As many honourable members are aware, a great deal of Australia's re-insurance business is placed with large overseas companiesin Britain, Switzerland and Germany. It is true that in recent times some of these professional re-insurers overseas have deigned to establish locally incorporated companies. However, the foreign giants which dominate this specialised and highly active field of insurance in Australia have little interest in returning, through reciprocal business to Australia funds generated by their overseas parents. 
The Australian Government will increase the reinsurance facilities within our own country. This will enable the AGIO to play a role at home- and overseas- similar to that of the European countries in the insurance field. It will help reduce the flow of funds out of Australia while at the same time providing the potential to increase the flow of funds into Australia. In the  longer term,  an AGIO operating in this way could well assist Australia's balance of payments. The Australia-owned insurance companies will surely welcome the entry of the AGIO into the important re-insurance field. Australian people most certainly will. 
Less than 2 years ago the level of foreign ownership of general insurance business conducted in Australia was nearly 46 per cent. The Aus.tralian share was bolstered by the activities of Government insurance enterprises which represented some 20 per cent of the general insurance business. Again, Australian-owned insurance companies must surely welcome a thriving AGIO. Why indeed should the entry of the AGIO be at their cost at all? Why should Australian-owned companies be vociferous about potential competition from the AGIO and silent about growing competition from foreign companies? 
The Bill provides that the AGIO will be constituted as a statutory corporation managed by a Board of seven; five of these will be part-time members, one of whom will be  Chairman.  In this regard, the Government will be looking to the existing industry to recruit the most highly qualified staff available. Perhaps I can make the Government's intention in this regard a little clearer by quoting an answer given in reply to a question on staffing of the AGIO. I refer honourable members to an answer by  Senator Wheeldon,  the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, in the Senate on 15 April 1975 in which he said: 
As far as the staff is concerned, there could well be a problem if the private insurance companies or, for that matter, the State insurance offices were to find themselves in any difficulties as a result of the implementation of the national compensation scheme, the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office or as a result of any other problems which they might have. I think we all know that some of the general insurance companies have had considerable problems over recent years. As a Labor Government, we are concerned about this. I have had many talks with representatives of the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation, which is the union which covers most of the administrative and clerical employees of the private insurance companies. I have given an undertaking to them that the Australian Government will do everything it conceivably can to ensure that there is no loss of employment amongst the people who work in the insurance industry. 
The Australian Government Insurance Office will be an approved authority for the purpose of the Superannuation Act, and the Officers' Rights Declaration Act will apply to those members of the staff of the office who formerly held office under other statutes or within the Public Service. Staff will be appointed by the Board of the AGIO. The terms and conditions will also be determined by the Board, subject to approval by the Public Service Board. The AGIO will do all things possible to foster the latest management techniques, consistent with humane principles, to achieve the greatest possible satisfaction for its staff, and for the policy holders which it serves. 
The Bill specifies that the finance of the AGIO will be provided with an initial capital of $800,000 but it will also be entitled to an advance of $lm from the Treasury, subject to interest payable at a rate commensurate with the long term bond rate. The AGIO will not pay interest on the initial $800,000, but will be required under the terms of its Act to pay dividends to the Treasury in respect of the capital invested by the Australian Government. Some may think these amounts too small, but in setting them, the Government has acted in what it feels is in the best interests of financial prudence. Accounts of the AGIO are to be maintained as for any commercial entity and are to be subject to audit by the Auditor-General. The liabilities of the AGIO will be guaranteed by the Aus.tralian Government in the same way as the respective State governments guarantee State Government insurance activities. 
The AGIO will be authorised to undertake all forms of insurance, both general and li fe including superannuation business, and re-insurance. It will be required to invest its reserves in the interests of is POliCy holders, and will not be subject to any Government direction in this regard. The Australian Government will not exercise controls over the AGIO 's investments. All investments will be made to ensure the best returns for pOliCy holders. This is the only criterion which will be observed by the AGIO in deciding its investment policy It will be empowered to own property. It will be able to lend, but borrowing W111 require the approval of the Treasurer. In other words, the investment policy of the AGIO will be determined independently of governmental or ministerial instruction. 
In its commercial operations, I stress the Australian Government Insurance Office Will follow sound commercial principles. It will be free to determine the terms and conditions of its contracts, set premium rates and make such other commercial decisions as it deems necessary. In doing this it will operate exactly as do its competitors. It will be free of ministerial control in its commercial operations, but it will be required to keep the Minister informed on matters of policy. The AGIO W111 have power to enter into agency agreements, whether as principal or agent, and to conduct business outside of Australia. 
The AGIO will have authority under the Act to acquire either the whole or a part of other insurance undertakings. This is in line with the intention of the Government that the Australian Government Insurance Office act as a commercial operation. If insurance against a particular class of risk cannot be made available on a commercial basis, and if the Government is of the opinion that such insurance should be available in the national interest, the Minister may prescribe that the Australian Government Insurance 
Office provide it. The Government will guarantee any losses incurred in undertaking such national interest insurance. 
In respect of business undertaken under national interest provisions, the Bill provides that such business should be treated on a noncommercial basis and, in respect of such business, the AGIO will not be liable to taxation. The Government proposes that the establishment of a special national interest division be examined immediately by the AGIO. This division will be authorised to undertake specific national interest insurance business of a non-commercial nature in such fields as crop and livestock insurance. Such operations would be entirely separate from the AGIO'S other activities. It would be quite unreasonable if the AGIO were to be limited to the non-commercial, national interest fields of insurance. The Australian Government could not tolerate a situation in which the profitable areas of insurance were the exclusive domain of the private insurance sector and the AGIO was restricted to the national interest field. 
The establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office is in line with developments overseas. The governments of New Zealand, India, Israel and the United States of America, to name but a few, are already involved to varying degrees in providing insurance to their citizens, including natural disaster insurance. One of the objectives of the Government in setting up the Australian Government Insurance Office will be to seek a rationalisation of insurance business conducted by the Australian Government and Australian Government instrumentalities. 
At present, we have mortgage loans insurance in respect of low cost housing provided by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation under the Housing Loans Insurance Act; insurance in respect of defence service homes provided within the Defence Service Homes Act- shortly, of course, to be provided by the Australian Housing Corporation; insurance provided by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation in respect of a highly specialised field covering Australian exports; and insurance provided by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation as a service for clients who are financing the purchase of their homes or other property through their Bank. 
The Government does conceive that insurance presently provided under the Defence Service Homes Act could be brought under the Australian Government Insurance Office. The Bill as presented to the Parliament does not specifically include this aspect at the present stage, for as honourable members are aware the defence service homes scheme is being transferred to the Australian Housing Corporation and substantial changes are occurring. It is the Government's intention that, while those changes are occurring, the full scheme, whereby the Australian Government Insurance Office will undertake the provision of insurance cover under the Defence Service Homes Act, will be developed and incorporated into the AGIO in due course. The present intention is that the AGIO will write this business, invest the reserves and generally provide cover in accordance with the general principles at present applying under the Defence Service Homes Act. 
The Australian Housing Corporation service homes divisions will act as agent for the Australian Government Insurance Office and will collect premiums and handle inquiries and claims on behalf of the Office in just the same way as it now handles them directly. The clients- that is, those persons financing their home purchase through the defence service homes scheme- will not therefore in any way be affected, nor will their present method of communicating and obtaining their premiums and lodging their claims be changed in any way. 
As to the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, it is the Government's wish that the housing loans insurance scheme be retained in its present form. As honourable members are aware, this is a scheme whereby the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation provides insurance cover to lending institutions including banks, building societies, credit unions, and other organisations. This cover provides an insurance to the lending institutions against the risks and loss of the value of the loans made available by them. The Office assists people to obtain low deposit loans to acquire houses by insuring the repayment of housing loans of up to 95 per cent of the valuation of the property. The Office's insurance means that lenders can make low deposit loans with exactly the same degree of safety as loans where borrowers provide substantial equities. I am sure that honourable members are aware of the degree of success of this Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. It is an eminently successful organisation, and I can assure them that it is the Government's wish that this scheme should continue. 
In relation to the housing loans insurance scheme, it is the Government's wish that its administration be taken over by the AGIO in its present form. Legislation to this effect will be introduced separately. Since its establishment in 1965, it has been exempt from income tax and stamp duty, but has paid payroll tax and other levies in respect of its operations. This arrangement is to remain undisturbed. The amendment of the HLIC Act will leave intact those provisions which control the size and type of loan that may be issued. This will ensure that the special treatment accorded these housing loans will remain. 
The Government is of the view that the insurance service provided by the Export Finance Insurance Corporation is a specialised service in a particular held and is integral to the Government's export policies. It should therefore be undertaken as at present under the Export Finance Insurance Corporation Act. Continuance of the EFIC may be reviewed at a later date in the light of AGIO'S activities and developments. Similarly, the service provided by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to its clients is to be left in the hands of the Corporation and conducted in its present form. 
The Bill provides that it will take effect on a date to be proclaimed. There remains a great deal of further planning before the Australian Government Insurance Office can open its doors. Apart from appointments to the Board and staff there will be the general planning of operations strategies for the organisation and the further development of those special areas related to defence service homes and to the housing loans insurance scheme. The enactment of this legislation will enable this further planning to proceed with a view to the provision of additional services in both commercial and non-commercial fields to the benefit of Australia. 
The safeguards contained in the Bill should reassure the insurance industry that there is nothing to fear from the Australian Government Insurance Office. As I outlined earlier, it will provide additional areas of insurance protection which presently the Australian insurance industry is unable to provide. As to those areas in the normal field of commercial insurance, I repeat that the Australian Government Insurance Office will be undertaking business in these areas on an equal footing with private insurers. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 
I am immensely pleased that the Opposition is not opposing this Loans (Australian Shipping Commission) Bill. The statements which have been made by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  suggest that they want to keep a shipbuilding industry in Australia. I shall endeavour to have answered the serious questions which they asked during the course of their speeches. But as both honourable members became political during their speeches and as they suggested that the Government is a government of double standards, let me deal with their political statements. Day after day in this House we are told that we are using the printing press to such a dreadful extent that we will go broke. In this BUI we are trying to do something for the shipbuilding industry. Let me suggest what we have done already for the rural industries. Nothing less than $670m in direct assistance has been granted to agriculture and pastoral industries. Wool marketing assistance has totalled $380m which includes no less than $357m for wool stock. Honourable members opposite talk about us destroying the shipbuilding industry. They say that we should be putting more money into it. On the other hand they say we are spending too much. Do they want us to spend $40m to $50m on rural reconstruction and $46m on fertiliser bounty? 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to. Question No. 964 on the 1973 notice paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1714) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments-this is a satisfactory procedure for the purpose of my Ministry. 
Department of Tourism and Recreation: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 311) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 notice paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1714) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purpose of my Ministry. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
N.A. 
Yes. However, since my Department was established the workload has been immense and the number of officers available inadequate. While I do accept that this is an area in which the Government should give a lead, this should be consistent with the proper attainment of objectives within each Department. 
Honourable members who have spoken during this Committee stage of the Bill seem at have acknowledged that this clause- clause 48- is the core of the Bill. Proponents of this clause have introduced a great deal of emotion into the debate on the clause. On 28 November 1974, in his second reading speech, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said:  . . . to have the marriage dissolved without having to be put to the additional distress of making formal, undignified charges against the other party that that party's cruelty or adultery or wilful desertion was the cause of the breakdown, and because of it that party deserves to be divorced. 
In his speech today the Prime Minister again used such words as 'hardship', 'humiliation', 'bitterness' and 'unhappiness', yet admitted that 95 per cent of divorce cases in Australia are uncontested and in approximately 80 per cent of those cases the 2 parties have agreed to a divorce. I ask the Committee: Where is all the humiliation, bitterness and unhappiness under the present law? I suggest that in undefended suits it is the procedure, which it is necessary to go through in seeking a favourable settlement, and the nature of divorce itself which cause the humiliation, bitterness and unhappiness. In undefended cases I do not see that there will be any alteration to that situation if this Bill is passed as it stands. 
In defended divorce cases the Family Law Bill will not eliminate humiliation, bitterness and embarrassment even if we accepted the quite unwarranted assumption that under the new dissolution proceedings no such feelings will be suffered by the party who is divorced against his or her will by a spouse whose action or conduct ended cohabitation. It remains certain that if the Family Law Bill is enacted the type of bitter exchanges which evoke such feelings will be merely transferred from the dissolution proceedings to the custody and maintenance proceedings. Clause 48 will not clear up the difficulties of divorce. In foreign affairs language, unilateral declaration of independence is a dirty expression but in the case of families a unilateral declaration of independence can be made under this Bill by either spouse whether either or neither of them is guilty. If in international relations the expression 'unilateral declaration of independence' can be considered so dirty, surely that same attitude must apply to a contract of marriage. 
In the Committee debate so far and during the second reading debate there has been mention of the great publicity that is given to some divorce cases. Clause 121 authorises the court to restrict the publication of anything that is said and provides the right to prosecute any breach. In the conciliation and counselling provisions- great play has been made of these- the court has no authority to compel a disagreeing party to accept counselling. If one party decides to go to the Family Court to apply for the assistance of the counselling facilities of the Court there is no provision in Part III of the Bill, as I see it, which enables the Court to insist that counselling take place. So I come back to the point that clause 48 is the core, the Achilles heel, of this legislation. In another place more than 190 amendments were accepted, but clause 48 was not amended because the proponents of this Bill disguised its provisions by speaking about the counselling, maintenance and other provisions. The real effect of this law before us is to make divorce easier and I ask honourable members to look at the figures for the United Kingdom and the United States of America where provisions such as those proposed in clause 48 apply. 
I move the amendment circulated in my name. The reason for this amendment initially was to allay the fears of certain honourable members who believed that in the proposed amendment to clause 48, we were seeking to have the blame concept put back into the Bill. The clause as it now stands talks about declarations and injunctions. I shall quote paragraph (e) of the interpretation of 'matrimonial cause ' in clause 4 of the Bill. It uses the words: proceedings for an order or injunction in circumstances arising out of a marital relationship; 
Clause 114(1) provides: in sub-section 4(1) the court may make such order or grant such injunction as it thinks proper with respect to the matter to which the proceedings relate, including an injunction for the personal protection of a party to the marriage or of a child of the marriage or for the protection of the marital relationship or in relation to the property of a party to the marriage or relating to the use or occupancy of the matrimonial home. 
I merely suggest to the Committee at this stage that that section of the Bill which I have read out allows for all matters of accusations, recriminations and evidence of any sort to be put before this court. I stress the fact, as I have done on numerous occasions and as some of those honourable members who have supported me on this Bill have done, that this Act as it stands still allows for conduct and behaviour to be taken into account by the family court. This clause of the Act undoubtedly leaves it quite open for the conduct of either spouse to be brought into the court and to be aired very thoroughly. I again stress that the accusations that have been made against myself and other honourable members that we wanted to reintroduce into this Bill the fault concept in order that dirty linen may be washed in public, that humiliation and embarrassment may be forced on one or both parties, is completely untrue. I suggest again that under Part XIV of the Bill dealing with declarations and injunctions, either or both parties of the marriage can make accusations. 
I merely ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  why sub-clause (4) has been inserted in the Bill? Sub-clause (4) states: 
Proceedings for an offence against this section shall not be commenced except by, or with the written consent of, the Attorney-General. 
This seems to me to give the Attorney-General a great deal of power. It reminds me of a story told by the late Eddie Ward, I think, in connection with the anti-communist Bill. He asked a fellow outside the House: ' Would you give this power to  Dr Evatt?'  The fellow said: 'Yes, I might'. He said: 'Would you give it to the Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies?' The fellow said: 'Yes, I could'. He then said: 'Would you give it to me?' and the fellow said: 'That is taking it too far'. I might give the Attorney-General this power but I think to leave it open for an Attorney-General either to take action himself or to give written consent to someone else to take action is tying it down so that it might be abused on some future occasion. 
During the course of the debate on the Family Law Bill a document, circulated not only within my electorate but in other areas, was put out by the Divorce Law Reform Association and was authorised by  Mr W.  Thompson. The document is headed: 'Family Law Bill in Grave Danger'. It is written in 4 languages and is made up of parts A, B and C. The English language section of the document states: 
There is grave danger that the Family Law Bill at present before Parliament will fail or be rendered ineffective by a small but powerful section of Church hierarchy aided by vested legal interests. This group with little or no experience in the heartbreak of divorce under present methods is using its influence on Parliamentarians to frustrate reform of our archaic divorce laws to maintain the religious dogma of only  remarrying non guilty spouses. The person leading the campaign to destroy the Bill is  Mr Francis  Eugene Stewart, Federal Member for Lang, your local Member and a Catholic educated at St Mary's Cathedral School, Sydney.  Mr Stewart  has introduced an amendment containing trick phraseology, the first six clauses of which contain high ideals of marriage everyone should support, however the seventh clause ensures that a marriage will only be able to be dissolved on fault grounds (adultery, cruelty, etc.) or after two years separation, thus retaining the status quo. 
I pass over a couple of paragraphs. The document continues: 

 Mr Stewart is a man of high moral principles who is ignorant of the way the present divorce laws are administered. The Church are using him as a puppet, but by putting their views ahead of the people who elected him, he has disfranchised the electors of Lang. This and the fact that  Mr Stewart  is rarely available to electors except at election time should be taken into account when voting at the next election. 
Only one part of that would I not deny, and I say it myself. I believe that I have some principles. The rest of that document I deny emphatically. Any accusation or imputation contained in that document is completely scurrilous. I defy any member of the Parliament to show that during the course of the debate I have acted in any way which would indicate that I was a puppet of any church. 
Title agreed to. 
Reconsideration of clause 50. 
Now that the Family Law Bill is about to pass through this House I should like to pay my respects to the  Chairman  of Committees  (Mr Berinson)  who did a remarkable job, and the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  who had to sit through the whole debate. I should also like to pay tribute to a number of people who took an active interest in the Bill itself otherwise this House would not have given the consideration it has to the Bill. I am putting forward my personal opinion at the moment. I trust that all those people who have had some association with me during the past few months on this Bill will agree with the course of action I am taking, and that is, that I do not intend to call for a division on the motion for the third reading of the Bill. I hope that those supporters will agree with that course of action. I would like to place on record in Hansard the fact that the test of strength was such that the Bill passed through this House by 60 votes to 59. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
One purpose of this Bill is to amend the Australian income tax law so that when Papua New Guinea becomes independent it will be treated as a separate country for Australian tax purposes. The Bill will also give effect to other taxation proposals, some of which have been earlier announced. Our income tax law contains a number of special provisions relating to Papua New Guinea. These are the product of a variety of circumstances, including the longstanding policy of applying our tax laws in a limited way to Australian Territories. Some relate to an administrative position that came about in 1959 when a separate income tax was imposed in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. The provisions appropriate for a Territory are not of course appropriate for an independent country. Moreover, changes in both countries' laws since 1959 have removed the justification for the provisions relating to the 1959 situation. Except in a few respects, the amendments proposed by this Bill will end the operation of these special provisions. In broad terms, those provisions that provide special treatment for certain categories of income or expenditure related to activities conducted in either Australia or in Papua New Guinea, but not in other countries, will be made inapplicable by the Bill so far as concerns income and expenditure related to activities conducted in an independent Papua New Guinea. Subject to some exceptions, income derived from a source in Papua New Guinea by Australian residents will be treated in the same way for Australian tax purposes as income from a source in other places outside Australia. Residents of Papua New Guinea will be taxed like other non-residents on income from sources in Australia. 
One of the more important exceptions is a form of double tax relief to apply after independence. A tax credit system at present applies in respect of Papua New Guinea income of Australian residents and in the converse case. It is proposed to retain this system in Australia after independence but, as the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  announced recently, the salary or wages of Australians working in Papua New Guinea will be exempted from Australian tax where Papua New Guinea taxes the income. The rate of withholding tax on dividends paid to Papua New Guinea residents is half the general rate of 30 per cent. This is a concession we ordinarily make only in the context of a comprehensive double taxation agreement with other countries. We propose however to continue it in Papua New Guinea's case after independence. The Bill generally requires the changes I have described to be synchronised with Papua New Guinea's independence. Transitional provisions are included to take account of commitments that may have already been undertaken by taxpayers against the background of the present law. The Bill also contains some other measures related to Papua New Guinea's independence. One of these is that, on a basis of reciprocity, people in receipt of pensions from Australia or Papua New Guinea are to be taxed only in whichever of the 2 countries they reside. Another will confer an exemption from Australian tax on compensation and allowances paid under the employment security scheme now authorised by the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act 1973. These amounts are paid to members of the Australian Staffing Assistance Group and other former expatriate officers of the Public Service of Papua New Guinea on termination of their services there. 
An altogether different provision of the Bill will facilitate the raising of loans overseas by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It will provide an exemption from withholding tax for interest paid by the Corporation on such loans. The Bill provides also for the accelerated income tax deductions for depreciation announced on 9 December 1974 to stimulate investment in manufacturing and primary production plant. Taxpayers will be entitled to claim depreciation deductions on eligible plant calculated at twice the rates normally applied for income tax purposes. The increased rates will continue to apply in succeeding years until the cost of the eligible plant has been written off. Plant that would have qualified for the now abolished investment allowances, and is first used or installed ready for use during the 12 months period ending 30 June 1975, will be eligible for the concession. In broad terms, this is new plant acquired for use in a manufacturing or associated process and plant to be used wholly and exclusively in primary production activities. Taxpayers may elect to forgo the accelerated depreciation allowances if they so wish. 
The Bill will also implement 2 earlier announced decisions designed to give relief in the private sector of the economy. The first of these- to dispense with the collection of an instalment of tax from companies in February 1975- was announced late last year. The second- the repeal of provisions enacted in the 1974-75 Budget to ascribe minimum values for income tax purposes to cars available for private use of employees- is one of a package of measures that the Treasurer announced on 28 January to assist the motor vehicle industry. The law will also be amended by the Bill so as to remove any possible doubt that allowances paid under the National Employment and Training system are liable to income tax and subject to tax instalment deductions. The various amendments are explained in detail in the memorandum being circulated to honourable members, and I need not elaborate on them further in this introductory speech. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill introduces legislation for the screening of foreign takeovers of Australian businesses and the prohibition of such takeovers determined by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to be against the national interest. Since foreign takeover controls were first introduced in 1972, they have operated on the basis of: 
Interim legislation- the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972-1974- which extends only to foreign takeovers of companies effected by means of acquisitions of voting shares. 
Policy measures which, up to 10 December 1974 when the Government announced its comprehensive foreign takeover legislation proposals, extended to takeovers of: 
incorporated or unincorporated businesses by means of acquisitions of assets; and 
mineral rights. 
The policy measures for the control of foreign takeovers have been operated on an administrative basis pending the introduction of comprehensive legislation. The measures have worked reasonably well with the voluntary co-operation of both Australian and foreign interests whose transactions have been affected by their administration. However, the lack of comprehensive foreign takeovers legislation has not been entirely satisfactory from the viewpoint of either the private sector or the Government. 
The Bill provides for legislation which comprehends the whole of the Government's controls over foreign takeovers. An outline of the comprehensive legislative proposals was given in a statement made by the former Treasurer on 10 December 1974, a copy of which is attached to the explanatory memorandum that I have circulated on the Bill: The explanatory memorandum outlines in detail the operation of the scheme embodied in the Bill. Briefly, in addition to company takeovers effected by means of acquisitions of voting shares, the Bill will cover 3 other areas: 
First, takeovers covered by the 1972 policy measures, that is, takeovers of businesses by means of asset acquisitions and takeovers of mineral rights. 
Second, takeover methods which. have been used to evade the operation of the 1972 statutory and policy measures for the control of foreign takeovers. These comprise company takeovers effected by means of acquisitions of shares other than voting shares; company takeovers effected by means of splitting a large shareholding into small nominee groups where this has the effect of increasing the voting rights attached to the shareholding; business takeovers effected by means of leases or licences over the assets of a business; and business takeovers effected by agreements and arrangements relating to board representation rights and rights to participate in the management or profits of a business. (The main practical effect of these extensions will probably be to discourage use of such methods of evasion. It is expected that in practice these provisions of the Bill will not need to be used to any significant extent.) 
Third, transfers of control of business from one foreign group to another. 
In connection with the last-mentioned area, the Bill also provides for the screening of certain transactions in the shares of a company incorporated outside Australia. This provision is a logical consequence of the Bill's coverage of transfers of control from one foreign group to another. Effective control of an Australian business can pass from one foreigner to another without there being any change in the legal ownership of the Australian business concerned. For example, a change in the ownership of the shares of a holding corporation based overseas could change the beneficial (but not legal) ownership and control of any Australian subsidiaries of the overseas corporation. 
The Government considers that it would not be feasible or desirable to attempt to examine all overseas transactions in the shares of a company incorporated outside Australia. The relevant provisions in the Bill are based on a recognition that, on rare occasions, such transactions could result in a change in the control of a major Australian business that would be against the national interest. The Bill accordingly provides that a share deal which results in a change in the control of a company incorporated outside Australia will be examinable where either 50 per cent or more of the assets of that company are held in Australia or where its Australian assets amount to more than $3m. The Bill does not provide for exemption from examination of any domestic takeover transactions. However, the Government will continue its existing administrative practice of not intervening in takeovers of businesses with total assets of $lm or less, except in special circumstances. 
I come now to the question of criteria forjudging whether a foreign takeover proposal would be against the national interest. The criteria have not been incorporated into the Bill; this is because the criteria must be flexible in their interpretation and application and it has been found that it would be impracticable, consistent with the need for such flexibility, to express the criteria with the precision required by legislative form. The criteria that will be used are essentially the same as those which have been developed in the administration of the legislation and the measures that have operated since 1972 and which experience has shown to be both appropriate and effective. 
The first criterion for judging a proposed foreign takeover under the Bill will be: Whether, against the background of existing circumstances in the industry concerned, the takeover would lead, either directly or indirectly, to net economic benefits in relation to such matters as competition, productive capacity, technological change, development of new markets, production, quality and range of products and services, level of prices and efficiency which would be sufficient to justify the change in foreign control of the business concerned. If the proposed takeover is judged not to be against the national interest on this basis, the following additional criteria will also be taken into account: 
Whether, after the takeover, the business concerned could be expected to follow practices consistent with Australia's interest in matters such as exports, imports, local processing of materials produced, research and development and industrial relations; and 
Whether the takeover would be consistent with the Government's objectives in relation to such matters as defence, the environment and conservation, urban and regional development and the preservation of Aboriginal land rights. 
In making judgments as to whether particular foreign takeovers would be against the national interest on any of the foregoing grounds, due weight will be given to: 
The extent of the Australian participation in ownership, control and management that would remain after the takeover; and The interests of employees, shareholders and creditors of the business subject to the takeover proposal. 
In preparing the Bill the Government has had the benefit of more than 2 years' experience of the operation of foreign takeover controls. The Bill has been drafted with careful regard to that experience. It embodies a scheme of comprehensive and effective control of foreign takeover proposals. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Details of all grants to sporting associations to 30 June 1 974 classified according to the purpose of the grant, were listed in the Departmental Review of Activities which was tabled in this House on Tuesday 24 September 1 974. 
Grants are made to bona fide national amateur sporting associations to: subsidise fares of approved Australian amateur sportsmen, women and officials to attend bona fide national and international events; subsidise, under certain conditions, the fares of eminent overseas sportsmen, sportswomen and coaches who visit Australia; assist with the administration costs of conducting international events in Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of press releases issued by me are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery from my office, by distribution from the Information Section of my Department and by publication in the Australian Government Digest. 
There is a list of people who regularly receive copies of my press statements. In addition copies of press statements are distributed in response to people seeking information. Broadly, however, statements are issued to interested organisations and individuals who ask for them. 
The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the particular subject matter of the statement, but in general, statements are sent regularly to about 300 addressees. 
Part of the cost in producing and distributing press releases for me is included in the cost relating to the salaries and administration of my office. Other production and distribution costs are borne by my Department. The costs attributable to my Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
5 ) One (part-time only). 
The answer the the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Department has recently commissioned a study into the demand for, and supply of, low cost holiday accommodation in Australia. If the study shows that there is a demand that is not being met by the existing supply the study will suggest what steps the Government might take to encourage the provision of an adequate stock of low cost holiday accommodation. 
When the results of this study are available the Government will consider the policy it should adopt. 
A Steering Committee for the above study has been established with representatives from: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department has engaged a consultant to examine the supply of and demand for low cost holiday accommodation in Australia. An officer of the Department has been assigned to work with the consultant for various periods throughout the course of study which is expected to be completed in six months. Other officers will hold discussions with the consultant on the conduct of the study as necessary. 
Objectives: 
To identify the existing supply and demand for various types of low cost accommodation in Australia. Information is required on attitudes to existing low cost accommodation and to possible additions to the range available. 
Before I deal with the arguments that have been advanced by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  in support of this amendment, let me put into the Hansard record again a short precis of how long this superannuation scheme for Australian public servants has been under discussion. The report of the departmental committee appointed by the McMahon Government in 1971 to review the existing scheme was tabled in this House in May 1973. In March 1974 the former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  tabled bis proposals for a new scheme and announced the decision of the Government to obtain expert advice on the proposals. 
In June 1974 the former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  released the report of the actuaries,  Mr G.  L. Melville and Professor A. H. Pollard on the proposed scheme. In December 1974  Mr Crean  released the details of the new scheme approved by the Government to come into operation on 1 July 1975. The Australian Government published a booklet setting out the details of the new scheme which has been widely distributed and widely studied- studied by private superannuation people, by all the Australian government unions and federations and by most members, I would suggest, of the Australian Public Service. 
The interjection reminds me that perhaps many of the members of the Parliament did not study this scheme until the Bill was introduced and the second reading speech was delivered on 15 May this year. If that is not the case, why is it that we have amendments moved by the Opposition that have been well and truly discussed in the media, in the associations and in the private insurance and superannuation fields. The scheme that is before us at the moment was approved by the Government with most of the changes recommended by  Mr Melville  and Professor Pollard in the scheme. The Parliament itself has had the opportunity to study a 12-page second reading speech in which most of the arguments counteracting the arguments that have been advanced in the debate on the second reading of the debate today were put forward. The Parliament has also had an opportunity to study a 34-page memorandum which explains the provisions of the Bill. 
The amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Curtin is not acceptable to the Government. It is not acceptable for the following reasons: This amendment, together with the other amendments proposed, would make the benefits of the new scheme clearly inferior to those of the present scheme. Overall, the existing scheme contributors would be about 1 1 per cent worse off. 
I want to nail a misconception to the wall. Australian public servants have always been able to retire at age 60. This Bill does not make it compulsory for Australian public servants to retire at 60. They have a choice as to whether they will work to age 60 or age 65. Who amongst us in this Parliament would dare suggest that anyone should compulsorily retire at age 60? Who, in particular, on the Government side would suggest that 60 be a compulsory retiring age when m the Opposition our best weapons, those who give us the greatest advantage, are members who are more than 60 years of age. Since 1924 members of the superannuation scheme have been able to contribute to units on the basis of retirement on full pension at age 60. Forty per cent of the present membership is doing so at the moment. I believe that it is compulsory for members of the police force to retire at age 60. 
Since 1922 contributors of 65 years of age have been able to retire on full pension at any time after reaching age 60 by paying up their contributions in a lump sum. For the bulk of members a 70 per cent of final salary pension 50 per cent being the Government's financed element- has been attainable on retirement at age 60 since 1954. Changes to the scheme in 1969 made it easier to achieve the 50 per cent Government's financed element of pension on retirement at age 60. 
I can give honourable members many more arguments. I will pass over those, having nailed the misconception that has been preached by a number of members of the Opposition that this scheme makes it compulsory to retire at the age of 60. The Government does not accept the amendment because it is not based on fact or reason. 
I cannot find the exact position in my notes but the information I have and which I have just given honourable members is that the choice is still there. A person can retire at age 60 or age 65. The definition is purely for the purposes of defining when the benefit will become available. The choice as to whether an Australian public servant shall retire at age 60 or age 65 is still available. 
In answer to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  the argument he just advanced is hard to reconcile with the attitude that has been taken by the Opposition. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  stated in September 1974 that the Opposition intended to ensure that, wherever possible, existing contributors were not disadvantaged on transferring to a new superannuation scheme. The honourable member is suggesting now that certain employees should be disadvantaged by transferring to this scheme. The Government does not accept that. 
Question put: 
That the figure and word proposed to be omitted  (Mr Garland's  amendment) stand as part of the clause. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) insert at the end of the definition of 'pensioner', 'and, for the purposes of Pan III, includes a pensioner under the superseded Act; '. 
This amendment is intended to correct a minor drafting error in the legislation. The other amendments which the Government is proposing are also intended to correct minor drafting errors. I should like at this stage to pay a compliment to the Parliamentary Counsel and his staff for the magnificent job they have done on this Bill and on many others during the lifetime of this Government. They have been working under extreme pressures and for so few minor drafting errors to appear in a Bill of this complexity is a compliment to the Parliamentary Counsel and his staff. At the same time, I should like to pay a compliment to the staff of the Treasury who, since 1971, have been working quite diligently on this legislation. Alterations have been proposed from many sections of the community. The Treasury staff has had to prepare reports for various committees, including the last one, the Melville-Pollard inquiry. The officers of the Treasury, as well as the Parliamentary Counsel and his staff, deserve to be complimented on the work they have done. 
The Government does not accept this amendment. I shall not go into the grounds for not accepting it. I think they were well canvassed this afternoon inside this House and also outside the House. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said that this is pace setting legislation in this direction. Examples have been given on many occasions to show that this supposedly pace setting legislation is well matched by State government schemes and is perhaps- if one could get the information from private superannuation schemes- still below the pace setting that private enterprise has shown to some of its employees. 
The Government does not accept these amendments. I would like the wives and/or widows of all Australian public servants, plus their children. to appreciate that the Opposition believes that the widows of Australian public servants should not get the amount that is offered under this scheme. I will put it to the Government that we amend this legislation as long as someone in the Opposition is prepared to move that a retiring scheme that gives fivesixths of the salary to the widow be introduced. Five-sixths is something like 83 per cent. Here we are offering 67 per cent, which near enough coincides with a lot that is being offered to widows understate superannuation schemes. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Garland's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3) omit 'paragraph 84 (2) (b)', insert 'subsection 84 (2)'. 
There has been a minor drafting defect which is now being corrected by this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 86. 
where the period of contributory service of the eligible employee was less than 8 years- to a lump sum benefit in accordance with sub-section 93 (2) and, where the eligible employee had paid supplementary contributions, an additional lump sum benefit in accordance with sub-section 93 (3). 
I seek leave to move together 2 amendments to this clause. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), omit 'and made an election under section 74'. 
The amendment seeks to correct another minor drafting defect. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 94 to 150- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 151. 
1 ) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appearspension' does not include partial invalidity pension; prescribed year' means the year commencing on the commencing day, or a subsequent year. 
It grieves me greatly that again I have to announce that the Government does not accept this amendment. It grieves me greatly also that the Opposition is so inconsistent in its attitude on policies. Members of the Opposition have changed their minds on a number of occasions over this legislation. As the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  admitted, he spoke on legislation in 1973 which was designed to update to 1.4 the formula recommended by Professor Pollard. He quoted the extracts of his speech that he wanted to quote. However, I will quote something else that the honourable member said. He stated: 
In this matter the Commonwealth is giving a significant and in itself admirable and praiseworthy lead. 
An encore: 
In this matter the Commonwealth is giving a significant and in itself admirable and praiseworthy lead. 
The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who appointed Professor Pollard, said during the course of the same debate, referring to the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean: 
I congratulate the honourable gentleman on the proposals which he put before the House. 
The right honourable gentleman virtually took credit for the fact that the 1.4 formula had been introduced. I want to stress the fact that this 1.4 formula applies to existing pensions and that in 1954, 1963, 1967 and 1971 when there was a different government in office, increases were made in the rate of existing pensions under what was then called the notional salary increase. 
The then assistant to the Treasurer, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  in introducing legislation in 1 97 1 for the notional salary increase said that a simpler method needed to be found. So I come back to the point about consistency. I come back to answer some of the accusations about looking into crystal balls and going back and updating these figures. The fault, if there is one, is as much on the Opposition's shoulders as it is on Professor Pollard's or ours. I stress that in this Bill the formula for new pensions which will come into operation after 1 July 1975 is much less beneficial than the present 1.4 times the consumer price index formula which the Opposition is now criticising. 
I move: 
Omit "sub-section 69 (3)",insert"sub-section68 (2)". 
This amendment seeks to correct another drafting defect. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Superannuation Act Amendment Bill and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the following publications that contain the information which you seek and which have been distributed to all members- 
1 ) Department of Tourism and Recreation, ' Review of Activities to 30 June 1974'. 
Australian Government Initiatives in Tourism and Recreation, February 1975. 
News releases of 19 November 1974, 26 January 1975 and 23 March 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Information in respect of all capital grants made by my Department for community leisure facilities is provided in the following publications which were circulated to all members: 
Department of Tourism and Recreation 'Review of Activities to 30 June 1974'. 
News Releases: 19 November 1974; 26 January 1975; 23 March 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government's funding through the A.I.P. of the Duck River Parkland Development is indicative of the potential of the whole Parramatta River Area for innovation in recreation programming. Planning for such use is continuing. 
$255,000. 
Auburn Council and N.S.W. State Planning Authority. 
It is not possible to give an estimate of the numbers of people who have participated in the Duck River project. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for the Media to a similar question (No. 1581) addressed to him. This appeared in Hansard on 4 December 1 974 on page 45 90. 
The following is the answer to the right honourable member 's questions: 
, (2), (7), (8), (9), (10) Grants to sports in 1973-74 are listed in the Departmental 'Review of Activities to 30 June 1974' which was circulated to all members and tabled in this House on 24 September, 1974. 
Press releases which are also circulated to all members progressively advise of 1974-75 grants. 
I am unaware of any sport which meets the criteria set down governing grants to sporting organisations and has not received assistance. 
, (S), (6) Up to date information on these questions would be best obtained by contacting each sporting organisation direct. 
Many thousands of people throughout Australa have benefited through Government grants and subsidies to sport. It is not practicable to provide the right honourable member with precise figures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (5) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Special Minister of State in answer to question No. 1862 (Hansard 5 December 1974, pages 4844-4850). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) In November 1973 the printed report 'Australian Youth Fitness Survey 1971' became available and was distributed widely to all tertiary institutions, State Education Departments, National Fitness Councils and professional recreation organisations. It is now available to all persons who request a copy. It was published for the Department of Tourism and Recreation on behalf of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on a survey conducted for the Young Women's Christian Association by Robin Anderson with assistance from Sheryl Ward entitled: 'Leisure- An Inappropriate Concept for Women'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A grant of $1,200 has been approved for the Mandurah Girl Guides Association for building extensions and purchase of equipment, under the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Applications involving the purchase of equipment are not eligible for consideration under the terms of the Australian Government's capital assistance program for recreation facilities. The application by the Dwellingup Hills Youth Centre has therefore not been considered for assistance under my Department's program. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A grant of $ 1 ,500 has been approved for the purchase of a projector for use at Lake King by the Lake Grace Community Committee, under the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A grant of $ 1 ,000 has been approved for the Pinjarra Methodist Youth Club for establishment of facilities, under the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Applications involving the purchase of equipment are not eligible for consideration under the terms of the Australian Government's capital assistance program for recreation facilities. The application by the Nyabing Girl Guides Association submitted by the Kent Community Committee has therefore not been considered for assistance under this program. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)Yes. 
(2) 
Each applicant must be an approved national sporting or competitive recreation association. 
The travel assistance scheme covers: 
Fares subsidies for approved Australian competitors and officials to attend bona fide national and international events. 
Fares subsidies, under certain circumstances, to assist eminent overseas competitors and coaches who visit Australia for approved purposes. 
A scheme to subsidise fares of approved competitors and officials to attend inter-regional events where State/Territory teams have not attained national championship standard. 
Fares assistance for up to three national executive members and one delegate from each State association to attend the annual general meeting of the national association. 
Fares assistance for one Australian delegate to attend the meeting of the international association with which it is affiliated. Assistance will be provided once only in each year. 
Assistance with costs of transporting equipment to and from approved national and international championships. The maximum amount in any one year to any approved national organisation will be $2500. 
Assistance will be considered for up to 4 national championships for each sport: 1 open event 2 under-age events 1 schools event. 
Where the numbers above are exceeded preference will be given to the older age groupings. 
For internatioal events, assistance will be considered for up to 1 junior and 1 senior nationally representative team for each sport. 
Levels of assistance with fares are based on the numbers of participants in the sport and the distance involved in travelling to the event. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (18) The information which the right honourable member seeks in respect of 1973-74 is contained in my Department's Review of Activities to 30 June 1974 which was tabled on 24 September of last year and distributed to all honourable members. 
Information in respect of 1974-75 will be available in this year's Review of Activities which I hope to table early in September. 
As the right honourable member would realise to supply the information he has requested would be extremely time consuming. Given that the manpower resource of my Department is small, and that the information is, or soon will be, available from other sources, I am reluctant to authorise the collection of the information as a separate exercise. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not employ officers as youth workers, social workers, sport coaches, drama instructors, physical education instructors or other categories that I would describe as recreation officers or recreation workers. 
Among the programs implemented by my Department there is one under which we intend to assist pilot projects designed to encourage people to participate in some form of physical recreation. Part of this program will be directed toward recreation in the work environment and I hope to undertake some initiatives in this field in 1975-76. I am anxious that these pilot projects be evaluated before attempting to implement any overall scheme for the greater involvement by industry in the provision of recreation facilities and services, including recreation officers, for their employees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A grant of S350 has been approved for the Pingaring Badminton and Social Club under the Australian Assistance Plan. The other projects were received too late to be considered within the 1974-75 capital assistance program for recreation facilities but have been referred by the Social Welfare Commission to the Community Recreation Council of Western Australia and will be considered for assistance in the context of the 1975-76 program. 
Grants are allocated on an annual basis. The 1975-76 grants will be announced later this year. 
See(l). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 267 appeared in Hansard (page 1310) on 8 April 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 310 appeared in Hansard (page 2179) on 13 May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 3 1 1 appeared in Hansard (page 2180)on 13 May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 591 appeared in Hansard (page 2747) on 22 May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 592 appeared in Hansard (page 1026) on 4 March 1975 
Department of Tourism and Recreation: Fire Fighting Procedures (Question No. 2148)  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 1158 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 26 September 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1158 appeared in Hansard (page 2180) on 13 May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1656 appeared in Hansard (page 2748) on 22 May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1767 appeared in Hansard (page 2748) on 22 May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) Each research project has contributed to my Department 's understanding of the complex issues in planning to meet the demands of Australians in the fields of tourism and recreation. The policy implications to be drawn from the results of this research have been carefully studied. Some of the research project reports are published as specific volumes and are available from my Department or through Australian Government Publishing Service outlets. Other reports were prepared to assist in the development of my Department s approach to the leisure environment and, as such, are not available for wide distribution. 
The purpose of each study was determined by consultation between officers of my Department and recipients of grants specifically outlined by me or my Department left to the discretion of the recipient, within carefully controlled guidelines. 
The grants were approved either by Cabinet, by me or by the Permanent Head of my Department. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of disabled entitled 'Design for access and mobility'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the record of decisions of the second meeting of the Recreation Ministers' Council held in Melbourne on 6 September 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 456 appeared in Hansard (page 3275) on 3 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1600 appeared in Hansard (page 3279) on 3 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1769 appeared in Hansard (page 3280) on 3 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Youth Say Report is an important social document and my Department has therefore encouraged widespread discussion of the report and its implications for the public at large, voluntary organisations, and all levels of Government in Australia. 
The Youth Say Report presents a national overview of young peoples' needs. It is in no sense a blueprint for youth programs which can be picked up and applied by a particular community, or youth organisation. Local governments, youth organisations and other community groups are using the report as the basis for more specific and localised investigations of youth needs. 
The findings of the report are extremely diverse. The findings are summarised below, together with an indication as to all actions so far taken by my Department. 
A very strong interest in team sports exists among boys between 12 and 14 years of age but not for young men of older age levels or girls and young women of any age. 
Young people benefit from my Department's assistance with travel to sporting championships and assistance to surf life saving clubs. 
Young people seek informal, loosely-structured, social pastimes, individual non-competitive sports, outdoor activities, and creative cultural pursuits all largely under their own control. 
Through the pilot Innovative Recreation Program grant-in-aid scheme, my Department provides assistance to unstructured youth and other groups to develop innovative and experimental recreation programs to meet community needs. 
Music and the opportunity to participate in musicmaking are major pre-occupations and aspirations. 
Through the pilot Innovation Recreation Program grant-in-aid scheme, assistance has been provided to a program which includes the establishment of specialised facilities for playing music and a lending library of traditional instruments. Various types of financial support are also available through the Australia Council. 
Young people benefit from financial assistance made available to artistic and cultural facilities, provided under my Department's program of Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities. 
d ) They prize most highly of all the chance to have some space or places which they can make their own. 
The IDC on Australian Government Land Use is taking youth needs into consideration when reassessing uses of Australian Government holdings. 
Again, young people benefit from assistance in establishing facilities under the Department's Program of Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities. 
They want to belong to a 'community' and feel some responsibility for shaping the life of that community. 
The Youth Involvement Program aims to provide young people with opportunities for creative involvement in their communities. In the 1974-75 Budget $75,000 was provided to enable national testing of these programs. 
The help of adult youth workers is needed and valued when given in a spirit of responsible partnership. 
My Department has stimulated a comprehensive program of educational opportunities for full-time recreation workers in institutions across the country. In addition, the Department has launched a program aimed at improving the training opportunities available to voluntary leaders in the youth/recreation field. 
They want better information services about available recreational resources and easier access to these resources through better transport services and lower fares and entry charges. 
My Department's Advisory Service has been established to put the community, voluntary leaders, planners, researchers and local government in touch with new ideas on leisure programs and provides guidance on where relevant information can be found. It is essentially a recreation information exchange centre. 
As transport services and fares are State responsibilities, the Australian Government is unable to consider positive action,. 
They often complain about their schools and other formal institutions, about legal constraints and traditional patterns of adult control. 

 Mr Michael Norman, Project Director of the Youth Say Report, has made an appraisal of the Youth Say Project in terms of its relevance to formal schooling, for the Schools Commission. 
In addition to the Australian Government's specific actions, as a result of Youth Say, indicated in ( 1 ) my Department is involved in the following activities: 
My Department provides grants to national secretariats of youth organisations to enable them to undertake a range of developmental programs aimed at establishing ways by which they might better relate to young Australians m the 1970s. $250,000 was provided in this financial year. 
Prime responsibility for the operation of the Commonwealth Youth Program in Australia is carried by my Department. 
An International Youth Exchange program is planned within the framework of existing cultural agreements administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
The development of low cost hostel accommodation for young travellers. 
My Department will continue to take initiatives in matters relating to young people to encourage the development in Australia of a wide range of recreational opportunities for young people. It will continue to generate opportunities whereby young people may be creatively involved in their community. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1335 appeared in Hansard (page 3386) on 4 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1571 appeared in Hansard (page 3387) on 4 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1766 appeared in Hansard (page 3387) on 4 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of Tourism and Recreation 
Many officers of the Department of Tourism and Recreation are involved in research and development programs in relation to tourism, community recreation, sport and youth services. 
In general, work directly or indirectly related to research and development forms only a pan, sometimes significant sometimes small, of the duties of some 22 officers. 
All such officers are located in Canberra. 
(a) Research into recreation travel habits and needs of Australians in Australia. 
Opportunities for Youth- Pilot Studies. 
National Sports Institute- Feasibility Study. 
Community Recreation- Leadership Development. 
Community Recreation- Development Studies. 
f) Physical Recreation Development. 
It is not possible to assess the proportion of officers' salaries which is directly and indirectly attributable to research and development without a considerable amount of research which I am not prepared to authorise in view of more pressing tasks facing the relatively small staff resources of my Department. 
Expenditure on research and development programs in 1974-75 by way of payments to universities, colleges of advanced education and consultants, is estimated at around $500,000. 
On the basis of consultation with industry, organisations, local government and State departments, my Department recommends the nature and scope of research and development programs and submits them to me for approval. 
B ) Australian Tourist Commission 
The Commission has 12 officers and employees engaged on research and development work. 
Australian Tourist Commission Headquarters, Melbourne. 
Research into tourism marketing and development. 
Total expenditure in 1974-75 will be $195,000. 
The program of marketing research is prepared by the staff of the Commission and submitted to the Commissioners for approval. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the capital assistance program for recreation facilities administered by my Department, applications should be referred to the State recreation authorities. All applications are examined and accorded a State priority rating before being referred to my Department for the determination of national priorities. Any group or organisation which applies directly to my Department is advised to refer its application, in the first instance, to the appropriate State Department. Applications have been received by my Department and re-directed to the Victorian Department of Youth, Sport and Recreation in respect of the following projects within the Electoral Division of Wannon: 
Bridgewater Lakes- Camp accommodation for primary and secondary school pupils at Bridgewater Lakes. 
Heywood- Assembly Hall- Gymnasium at Heywood High School. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Inquiries have been received from a number of voluntary groups as to the possibility of funds being available for the establishment or maintenance of a federal (or State) headquarters under the Government's program of capital assistance for recreation facilities. 
They have been advised of the criteria and application procedures of the program and it has been pointed out that funding covers capital expenditure not maintenance costs. 
Each inquirer has been advised that under the program applications should be directed in the first instance to the appropriate State Government recreation authority. Projects for funding in 1975-76 are currently under consideration. 
The possible provision of federal headquarters for national sporting organisations is also being considered within the study into the establishment of an Australian Sports Institute currently being undertaken. 
I should point out that grants are made under other programs administered by my Department to assist with the administrative expenses of national life saving associations, youth organisations and sports associations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under the capital assistance program for recreation facilities administered by  my  Department, applications should be referred to the State recreation authorities. All applications are examined and accorded a State priority rating before being referred to my Department for the determination of national priorities. Any group or organisation which applies directly to my Department is advised to refer its application, in the first instance, to the appropriate State Department. Applications have been received by my Department and re-directed to the South Australian Department of Tourism, Recreation and Sport in respect of the following projects within the Electoral Division of Barker: 
Re-grading of land for a reserve- Goolwa 
Sporting complex- Millicent Golf Club 
Blue Lakes sports park- Mount Gambier 
Recreation reserve- Noarlunga 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) My answer to Question No. 130 1 appeared in Hansard (page 3274) on 3 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's attention is drawn to my Department's 'Review of Activities to 30 June, 1974' which was circulated to all members and tabled in this House on 24 September 1974. This report outlines the assistance programs administered by my Department. More detailed information on each of the programs has been circulated to honourable members through circulars, news releases and other information handouts compiled by my Department's Advisory Service. Should the honourable member desire specific information, he should contact either myself or my Department. 
Information on assistance available through programs administered by my Department is widely circulated to Governmental bodies at all levels, through the media and to interested national sporting, recreational and community organisations. In addition, my Department handles a great number of inquiries from interested individuals and organisations. 
This information is already available in my Department's 'Review of Activities to 30 June 1974'. The 1974-75 edition of this report should become available for distribution in September this year. Information in respect of my Department is also in the publication to which the honourable member refers. 
Sturt Electoral Division: Funds from Department of Tourism and Recreation (Question No. 2740) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the capital assistance program for recreation facilities administered by my Department, applications should be referred to the State recreation authorities. All applications are examined and accorded a State priority rating before being referred to my Department for the determination of national priorities. Any group or organisation which applies directly to my Department is advised to refer its application, in the first instance, to the appropriate State Department. 
Applications have been received by my Department and redirected to the South Australian Department of Tourism, Recreation and Sport in respect of the following projects within the Electoral Division of Sturt. 
Club facilities for the Tea Tree Gully Youth Club. 
Recreation and sporting facilities- Campbelltown. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have today provided an answer to question No. 886. 
Youth SAY Project (Question No. 2155) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have today provided an answer to question No. 1 768. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the reply I have provided today to Question No. 2703 for the honourable Member for La Trobe. The details in respect of cost and organisations receiving grants are contained in the Department of Tourism and Recreation publication 'Review of Activities to 30 June 1974' and subsequent news releases. The 1 974-75 edition of the ' Review of Activities ' should become available for distribution in September this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government's funding through the Area Improvement Plan of the Duck River Parkland Development in no way reflects the planning of the Department of Tourism and Recreation as distinct from the Auburn Municipal Council and the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
My Department, however, operates in close liaison with the Department of Urban and Regional Development particularly in regard to the development of leisure facilities in Area Improvement Program Regions. My Department also co-operates closely with local government authorities in the planning of leisure facilities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  (2) I refer die honourable member to the reply, given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2789 which appeared in Hansard (page 3546) on 5 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply, given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2586, which appeared in Hansard (page 3545) on 5 June 1975. 
It is not true that many thousands of young people living on the coast of Australia are drawing unemployment benefits. It is the intention of the Government to make absolutely certain that anyone who is in receipt of social security benefits receives them because they are due to him and not because he is infringing the regulations in any way. The Department of Social Security carries out work tests and makes checks on the people who are receiving unemployment benefits. In the last few months in particular many young people and others have had their unemployment and sickness benefits discontinued because they have been detected infringing the regulations. It is the Government's intention to review continuously the payment of social security benefits to make certain that they are paid only to people who are entitled to receive them. 
I do not know what one can do with people who deliberately set about to infringe an Act of Parliament and who refuse to abide by the regulations which are laid down. That is not the only thing which is happening with doctors under the Medibank system. Some doctors are refusing to refer patients to a specialist because that specialist is bulk billing. It is entirely unjust for people to suggest that we are wrong in introducing Medibank. We are trying to introduce in Australia a health scheme which the people want. For the medical profession to take the action it is taking to try to sabotage Medibank is, to me, absolutely callous, as the honourable member has said. We will continually review the activities of the medical profession and of chemists who act as agents under Medibank to see that the people of Australia receive the benefits of a health system to which they are entitled. 
I move: 
That the House insists on disagreeing to the amendments insisted on by the Senate. 
On 5 June 1975, the House disagreed to the amendments that the Senate had made earlier that day to the Superannuation Bill 1975. The reasons adopted by the House for disagreeing to the amendments were: 
Because the superannuation arrangements for Australian Government employees that would result from the amendments proposed would be detrimental to many existing contributors to the present superannuation pension scheme: would compare unfavourably with the superannuation schemes maintained by the State governments for their employees; and would result in complex and difficult administrative arrangements. 
The Senate, however, on 1 1 June 1975 decided to insist on the amendments. 
The Senate amendments change the new superannuation scheme in the following way: The standard Government-financed retirement pension benefit of 50 per cent of final salary would be available only on retirement at age 65 after 30 years contributory service with reduced benefits for retirement before that age so as to provide a 40 per cent of final salary pension at age 60. Because this would result in a reduction in benefits presently attainable on retirement before age 65, existing pension scheme contributors would be allowed to continue under the conditions of the present scheme providing that they contributed at the higher age 60 retirement rates. The supplementary Government-financed pension of one-half of one per cent of salary for each year of contributory service in excess of 30 years before reaching age 60, which would lift the maximum Government-financed pension from 50 per cent of salary after 30 years to 55 per cent after 40 years, would be eliminated. The one times consumer price index post-retirement updating of new age retirement pensions would be confined to the Government-financed element. 
It is estimated that, with the amendments of the Senate, contributors to the present pension scheme, overall, would be 9.8 per cent worse off under the new scheme. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard estimates prepared by the Treasury of capital costs of the new scheme, as amended by the Senate, compared to present scheme costs. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1973-74, $371,209; 1974-75, $969, 108. 
Many officers of the Department of Tourism and Recreation are involved in varying degrees in providing assistance to groups and individuals for sporting purposes. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question. 
to (6) A suitably qualified worker was appointed to conduct research into community welfare needs in the Mount Morgan area but was unable to take up the appointment. Consequently, the research has not yet commenced and the grant of $6,000 has not been spent. Negotiations to engage another research worker are currently taking place between the Fitzroy Regional Council for Social Development and a suitably qualified person. 
The Minister for Social Security has povided the following answer to the right honourable member's question. 
1 ) The South West Sydney Regional Social Development Council Ltd submitted two projects from the Centre for Human Services for funding under the Australian Assistance Plan: 
Equipment and salary for a communications animator to meet the challenge of delivering services in a multi-ethnic situation. The officer was appointed to assist persons and groups at Marrickville in learning how best to express and communicate their needs. The communications equipment includes printing and recording apparatus. 
A grant of $4,785 was approved on 23 April 1975. 
Purchase, modification and running costs of a media van to be made available for use throughout the region to communicate to the community in the area on social and community welfare services. The animator previously approved and appointed would include use of the van in the performance of his duties. 
A grant of $4,436 was approved on 25 June 1975. 
No. The post-arrival welfare of migrants is no longer the resonsibility of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. 
No, the Government does not agree that this is a waste of public funds. Medibank cards were produced from two different records. Individual cards were printed from information on Electoral Rolls, whereas family cards were produced from child endowment files. 
The cost of attempting to match by clerical methods the individual card sent to the mother in her own right with that sent to her as a family card would have far exceeded the cost of sending the cards out by high speed machine operation in different envelopes. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I direct the honourable members attention to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question number 2789 in the House of Representatives Hansard of 5 June 1975 page 3546. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 

 Mrs M. Nott who is suitably qualified, conducted the research into community welfare needs in isolated parts of the Jericho Shire. 
The research program was to ascertain the social welfare resources and needs of Shire residents. 
3 ) The research was concluded on 30 May 1 975 . 
The report was printed in June by the Fitzroy Regional Council for Social Development. 
The printed report, containing 22 recommendations for social development action by the Regional Council and its community worker, will be released to Shire residents. 
The grant of $6,000 was allocated to salary, research, printing and travelling costs of the research officer. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (3) The projects referred to (new hot water system for the New South Wales Protestant Federation 's Childrens 
Home at Dulwich Hill and office furniture, floor coverings and office supplies for a St George district branch of the Good Neighbour Council) were included in submissions proposed by the South West Sydney Regional Social Development Council for funding under the Australian Assistance Plan. All Regional Councils are required to sign an agreement which includes the clauses: 'to apply the (Australian Government) funds for the purposes for which and in accordance with the terms upon which they are respectively provided; ' and 'in the event that any funds are not required for application or cannot be applied as aforesaid, to refund to your Department (of Social Security) such funds as are not required or capable of application'. 
In addition, Regional Councils are required to forward to the Department annual audited statements of receipts and payments, and the auditor is required to certify that Australian Government funds received have been used for the purposes for which they were given. 
The procedure for payment of grants is as follows: 
Local organisations submit projects to the Regional Council for funding. 
After evaluation, the Regional Council submits projects for Ministerial approval. 
The grant for projects is payble to the Regional Council whose financial accountability has been summarised above. 
The Regional Council disburses the grants to local organisations which are required: 
to enter into an agreement, similar to that mentioned above, with the Regional Council. 
to provide annual audited statements to the Regional Council as summarised above. 
to agree that, in the event of the organisation's dissolution, the projects funded under the Australian Assistance Plan are realised and the proceeds returned to the Regional Council for recycling among other projects, as approved by the Minister, in the region. 
Financial Assistance by the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs  (Question No. 2787) 
-The question raised by the honourable member has been exercising the mind of this Government for the past 2 years and 8 months. It is to be recalled that it was the previous Government that appointed  Mr Justice  Toose to hold this inquiry. Many attempts have been made by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation to have the report finalised. The latest information is that a lot of the papers collected by  Mr Justice  Toose are now ready to be filed. The report is about to be finished, but it will take some time before it is printed and published. I could say that this could be regarded as the best 'iron lung* royal commission ever established. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973 1 present a report by the Social Welfare Commission entitled  Care of the Aged. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Social Welfare Commission. This report is the first by the Commission since its members were appointed in April 1974 and covers the period from appointment up to 30 June 1975. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
and (2) I direct the honourable member's attention to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question number 2586 in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 5 June 1975 page 3545. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At 30 June 1975 there were 6359 blind persons in Australia aged 65 or over and in receipt of pension. Of these, 120 were in receipt of invalid pension. 
Taxation matters come within the province of my colleague, the Treasurer. I understand that adequate data is not available to enable a reliable estimate to be made of the revenue received from taxing the pension paid to the aged blind. 
Actual expenditure figures for transitional benefit for the aged blind were not separately maintained. Expenditure on the benefit is estimated to have been $720,000 in 1973-74 and $388,000 in 1974-75. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The distribution of Medibank material, including Health Insurance cards and publicity material has been handled either by the Post Office, the Department of Social Security, or by the Health Insurance Commission itself. 
The Pacific Photo Service's function is to collect claims from pharmacists and deliver them to Medibank offices. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2586 (Hansard, 5 June 1975, page 3545). 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the Honourable Member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2789 (Hansard, 5 June 1975, pages 3546 and 3547.). 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1975, I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) When the sports assistance program was introduced in 1973-74, the bulk of assistance was provided to help with the fares of State teams to attend national championships and to assist national teams to compete in world or major international events overseas. 
In addition, some provision was made to cover the situation where a sports association wished to bring an eminent coach or some highly qualified athletes to Australia. 
The conditions under which these subsidies were paid were consistent with those applied to other sections of the assistance program, i.e. proposals were accepted only from approved national sporting associations for bona fide visits. Grants made in 1973-74 were listed in the Department's ' Review of Activities '. 
In 1974-75 the bulk of these requests was met under the expanded assistance program which now includes assistance for coaching programs conducted by national associations. 
The amount of subsidy paid to each association depends on the number of people involved in the visit. Usually, these visitors are highly competent specialist coaches or athletes, the numbers are seldom large and Government subsidies have been restricted to 50 per cent of the economy return air-fare including domestic travel. 
Advertising by the Department of Tourism and Recreation (Question No. 2876) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The advertising budget for the Department of Tourism and Recreation for 1 975-76 is $ 1 7,000. 
The advertising entailed in this amount will cover: staff recruitment innovative programs overseas study fellowships tourism research grants physical recreation media campaign 
1970-71, - na; 1971-72, - na; 1972-73, - nil; 1 973-74, - $2620; 1 974-75, - $6629. 
It should be noted that funds in other items of this Department's appropriation have, in the past, been expended on advertising. However, it is impractical to isolate the purely advertising component from total expenditure. 
I am aware of the criticism that was levelled by the honourable member for Bass at the method of processing applications for grants from my Department. The procedure is simple and logical. I ask organisations to approach their local government authorities. I ask the local government authorities to submit to the State department their priorities for the projects in their local government areas. I request the State department then to submit to me its priorities of State projects. They are examined by my Department and submitted to me. I then recommend the projects which are to be granted assistance. 
In the case of the George Town swimming pool, the first approach was made in 1973 by the George Town Swimming Pool Association. That was followed by representations from various senators and State members. The Swimming Pool Association followed up its application. The Tasmanian Government promised a grant of $50,000 under the Public Bodies Assistance Act, the local government authority promised $50,000 and I recommended a grant of $50,000. The cost of the pool was to be $200,000. The Swimming Pool Association was to have raised the remainder of the money required. A poll of the people of that local government area disclosed that they did not want a swimming pool and I was advised by the Swimming Pool Association that the $50,000 grant I had recommended was not required. If this is a measure of the sagacity, intelligence and honour of the ex-Army officer who represents the electorate of Bass I can only draw the conclusion that the Army profited by his departure and the Parliament lost by his arrival. 
Pursuant to section 76a of the National Health Act 1953-1975 I present a report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report on the operations in relation to the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives /fan wa of 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation is responsible for the provision of treatment for patients in the Repatriation ward at Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital, Picton; however the control and operation of all wards at Picton, including the Repatriation ward, is the responsibility of the Board of Directors of Queen Victoria Memorial Hospitals. The Board and its officers consult with the Department in regard to the conduct of the Repatriation ward. 
There are 40 beds in the Repatriation ward and the daily average number of beds occupied for the year ended 15 December 1974 was 37. 
The hospital functions under the provisions of the New South Wales Public Hospitals Act. It is a corporate body administered by an appointed Board of Directors. For the purpose of Commonwealth Benefits one ten-bed ward of the institution is registered as a public hospital. Both the Repatriation ward and the remaining wards are classified as a nursing home. 
Yes. 
No. 
The Medical Superintendent, who is an employee of the Board, is the only full-time medical officer at the hospital. Although the Department of Repatriation and Compensation does not provide a Departmental doctor on a full-time basis at Picton, liaison medical officers from the Department visit Picton at regular intervals, particularly to determine needs in regard to rehabilitation and aids to daily living. 
As the Department of Repatriation and Compensation does not employ a doctor at the hospital, the question does not arise. 
and (9) The Department does not directly pay staff employed in the Repatriation ward of the hospital. The Department pays an agreed bed day cost in respect of each patient in the Repatriation ward, part of which is direct salaries of employees who are rostered to the ward. Included in this bed day cost is a proportional amount of administration, nursing and maintenance. ( 10), ( 1 1), ( 12) and ( 13) Staffing of the hospital is a matter for determination by the Board of Directors of the hospital and is not the prerogative of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. However, I understand the Medical Superintendent and some nursing staff have resigned recently. 
14) No, with the exception of earlier inquiries instituted by  Mr Kerin  in regard to a patient who left .the hospital because the management was unable to continue to provide him with additional accommodation for use as an art studio. An officer of the Department's N.S.W. Branch regularly visits the hospital at Picton to inspect the Repatriation ward and has received no complaints from either the patients or staff. 
Yes. All representations to the Minister on matters within his responsibility are investigated and replied to. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' (Question No. 2315) 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2). Yes. 
and (4). Various manuals issued to Repatriation staff throughout Australia lay down broad procedures and policies for the sake of consistency and uniformity in administering Repatriation legislation at State level. 
These have not been made public as they are intended for internal administrative use only. They need to be read against a background of knowledge of an extremely complex Repatriation system which has been built up patchworkstyle over a period of 50 years. The manuals could cause misunderstanding, confusion, and unhappiness, particularly if they were read by themselves by people without an intimate knowledge of the professional technical or administrative aspects of the system. 
However, virtually all the information in them is constantly made available day by day, but with appropriate explanation, on request to any ex-service organisation, veterans or any other persons who may require it. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' (Question No. 2454) 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See(l). 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 )  Mr Eric  Walsh was engaged by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation to carry out public relations work on matters relating to the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. At the time  Mr Walsh  was engaged, the Department of Repatriation and Compensation had an establishment for one Public Relations Officer but it was unfilled at that time and  Mr Walsh  provided the services which would have been available to the Department if the position had been filled. The engagement of outside consultants in such circumstances is a common practice not only of this but also the previous Government. 
To advise on public relations aspects of the presentation to the public of the plan by the Australian Government for an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 

 Mr Walsh was paid $100 a day plus, naturally, any travelling expenses ana air fares for interstate travel. 
Yes, see answer to (3) above. 
The period of  Mr Walsh's  engagement was from 19-4-75 to 23-5-75 on an as required basis. In fact  Mr Walsh  was engaged for a period of 17 days. 

 Mr Walsh did not present any reports. 
Yes-see answer to (2) above. 
No, this was not the purpose for which  Mr Walsh  was engaged, see the answer to ( 1 ) above. 
Yes. 
Australian Government Employees: 35 hour Week  (Question No. 3041) 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (8) There are 78 medical officers attached to the Queensland Branch of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, all of whom could be designated Departmental medical officers. All possess qualifications which are essential in their employment as medical officers in the Australian Public Service as outlined in the Australian Government Gazette No. PI of 31 January 1975. It would be impractical to extract details concerning each of these medical officers. 
and ( 10) Funds allocated to any Branch of the Department form part of the annual appropriation from Consolidated Revenue and, as such, are subject to audit by the Australian Auditor-General. 
Salaries paid to medical officers attached to the Queensland Branch of the Department are as follows: 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Total artificial limbs supplied through the Department (1.7.71 to 30.6.75): 
1971-72 .... 1823 
1972-73 * 1973-74 1974-75 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) to ( 18) There are no such programs administered by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation or statutory authorities under the Minister's control. 
The subject of the matter of public importance is: 
The failure of the Government to recognise the importance of the cadet system to Australia. 
We have heard the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  speak in this debate. Neither of them put forward any arguments to point up the importance of the cadet system to Australia. I am prepared to admit that there is some value in the cadet system. The honourable member for Riverina spoke about leadership, discipline, responsible citizenship, adventure and experience. I admit that some of those things are achieved through the cadet system. But I ask all honourable members: Is it worth $1 lm a year to provide that type of training for 33 000 out of 630 000 eligible youths? Is it worth while spending $llm to provide that service for 5 per cent of our youth? Is it worth while spending $1 lm to provide that facility in only 16 percent of schools? 
-Continuously, day after day, in this House and outside members of the Opposition complain about the Government's extravagance, about its using money and not getting value for it. If honourable members opposite talk about the importance of the cadet system to Australia they should also talk about the value we are getting out of it. Can any honourable member on the Opposition side show me a country comparable to Australia that has such a paramilitary system in operation? Why has the cadet system in Australia become the be-all and end-all of youth activities? Why is it that the honourable member for Moreton and, I dare say, the honourable member for Riverina have not even bothered to see what 1258 young people in Australia from the age of 12 to 20 had to say about their recreational priorities? The report was prepared at my request by - 
-The report was prepared by a  Mr Michael  Norman, B.A., B.Ed., B.D., who is 40 years of age, married with 3 children, two of whom are teenagers. He was formerly principal of Kingswood College, Box Hill from 1964 to 1971. He became principal of St Paul's School 'Woodleigh' in Frankston in September 1974. That is a new co-educational secondary school based largely on recent researches into community life, adolescent needs, value education and curriculum design. I come back to the interjection and say that the survey covered ethnic groups, students, people from areas of poverty and people from rural areas* The 1258 young people who were interviewed were a cross section of the community. 
It is not a matter of how many were members of the cadets, it is a matter that they were selected. This report contains various tables. The survey revealed that in the age group 12 years to 14 years, 'uniformed groups' attracted the lowest priority of all proposals. They achieved a score of nine out of a possible maximum score of 246. In the 15 years to 17 years age group, out of a possible maximum score of 222, a level of nil was recorded. In the age group 1 8 years to 20 years, the score was one out of a possible 282. The survey revealed that 'uniformed groups' are not desired by the youth of our community. 
I turn to another table which appears in the document. In respect of 'uniformed groups' 56 per cent of males surveyed and 65 per cent of females surveyed answered 'I would never choose'. That was the result in the 12 years to 14 years age group. Turning to the age group 15 years to 17 years, we find that in respect of 'uniformed groups' 72 per cent of males and 75 per cent of females answered 'I would never choose '. I come now to the age group 1 8 years to 20 years, of which 69 per cent of males and 76 per cent of females answered 'I would never choose ' with respect to 'uniformed groups'. 
Let me deal now with the youth workers' assessment study of recreation preferences of those in the 12 years to 14 years age group. 'Uniformed groups' were ranked No. 15 out of a priority order of 16 items. In the 15 years to 17 years age group, that category achieved the lowest ranking of priority, that is, No. 16. That lowest ranking for 'uniformed groups' was also the result in the priorities as expressed by those in the age group 1 8 years to 20 years. 
When honourable members opposite talk about analysing and extravagance, I ask them please to do some analysing themselves before they introduce for discussion a matter such as has been proposed today. I point out that 5 per cent of eligible males are in the cadet system. We have been trying to assess the needs of young people in our community. We have not adopted the attitude that has been adopted by members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. We do not believe that father still knows best. We believe that the young people of Australia have the right to choose and that it is the responsibility of this Government to provide them with the facilities that they desire. 
In the couple of minutes remaining to me, let me quote what this Government has done for the young people of Australia in 1974-75. We have taken this action through some of the youth organisations, not at a cost of $ 1 lm but rather at a cost of $249,419. A grant of $40,034 was made to the YMCA. The Girls Brigade received a grant of $10,000. The Duke of Edinburgh awards scheme was granted $9,000. The Girl Guides received a grant of $40,000. The Scouts organisation was granted $50,300 while the YWCA received $25,350. A grant of $56,960 was made to the National Youth Council of Australia. The Joint Board of Christian Education received a grant of $17,775. We have assisted the Youth Involvement Program throughout Australia. In 1974-75 the following sums were granted: New South Wales, $9,600; Victoria, $8,770; Queensland, $7,650; South Australia, $8,260; Western Australia, $9,527; Tasmania, $6,900; and the Australian Capital Territory, $7,700. Those funds were provided for youth involvement programs. Honourable members will note that the Northern Territory is not mentioned. That was because of the effects of cyclone Tracy, as a result of which the Northern Territory did not have the opportunity to take advantage of the scheme. I wish all honourable members to recognise that approximately 50 per cent - 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. IS46 which appeared in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 5 June 1975, pp. 3518-3522. 
1 refer the honourable member to the answer by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development on 21 August 1975 to Question No. 2691  (Hansard p.  468). 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The only financial assistance by way of non repayable grant made by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation is that made to the Returned Services League to help with expenses incurred in placing veterans in employment through its own agency. 
The Department is responsible for the provision of loans for general business purposes. These loans are designed to assist former national and regular servicement to establish or re-establish themselves satisfactorily in civil life. 
and (d) nil. 
The Department advertises the assistance it provides by way of business loans in a pamphlet which is freely available to interested persons. 
3 ) There is no present intention to collate this information in any booklet such as envisaged by the honourable member. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer to Parliamentary Question No. 1546 on 5 June 1975 Hansard (pp 35 18-3522). 
-The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The honourable member is referred to the answer to Question No. 2690. The non-repayable grants to the Returned Services League have cost the Government $5,280 in each of the four years specified. Business loans are repayable. 
The amounts advanced by way of these loans are- 1971-72 - $208,336; 1972-73 - $261,267; 1973-74 - $354,851; 1974-75 -$782,856. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The normal procedure before a grant under the Australian Assistance Plan is approved by the Minister for Social Security is 
Local organisations forward applications for funding to the Regional Council. In its consideration of the projects the Regional Council is required to investigate if the projects submitted can be funded under existing State or Australian Government programs. 
The Regional Council submits its recommendations concerning projects to be funded to the Minister for Social Security. 
The Department of Social Security, if necessary, investigates alternative sources of funding of projects. 
On the recommendation of the Department, the Minister for Social Security considers approving projects for funding. 
At the time when the projects were approved, my Department had no funds available to assist local youth projects. 
The scope of my Department's youth program is indicated in my answer to Question No. 1768  (Hansard page  3504 on 5 June 1975). One of the fundamental objectives of the Australian Government's concern with young people is to provide more opportunities for them to become involved in the community around them. That this is generally in line with the wishes of young Australians is supported by the findings of the Youth Say report. 
Funds are provided to national youth organisations to develop programs designed to meet this overall objective and facilities associated with such programs are eligible to be considered for capital grants assistance. The demand for funds is far greater than we can provide and on occasions, projects such as that mentioned by the right honourable member may be assisted by other Government Departments which are also concerned with issues that affect young people. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 

The procedure for making grants under the Australian Assistance Plan is outlined in answer to Question 2855. The South West Sydney Regional Social Development Council contacted my Department, the Youth Advisory Council and the Association of Youth Organisations and was informed by each that no assistance was available for the project. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
and (2) $190,000 for media advertising to inform people of their entitlements to pensions, benefits and services and of programs provided through the Department. 
Another $315,000 has been provided for advertising and producing pamphlets for Medibank. Of the total of $1. 58m provided for Medibank publicity in 1974-75, $345,000 has been carried forward to 1975-76 for expenses incurred on Medibank publicity last financial year for which payment has not yet been made because: 
Advertising lodged after 30 April is paid in the succeeding year; and 
Some accounts have not yet been received. 
In addition an estimated $45,000 will be spent on advertising to make people more aware of the Australian Assistance Plan and how they can become involved in it. 
The Department of Social Security was formed in December 1972 from an amalgamation of the former Department of Social Services and the Health Insurance and Benefits Division of the Department of Health. 
The Department's media advertising totalled $366,377 in 1 973-74 and $ 1 , 1 34,477 in 1 974-75. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Services have been held for five years commencing on 19 April 1970. 
Yes. 
No statistics of actual costs were kept. The estimated total cost for each yearly service was $ 1 00 to $ 1 20. The main expenditure was lure charges for a public address system to cater for any overflow audience, provision of a light supper for guests and provision of car transport for a small number of official guests. 
It is not known how many people attended the services. In addition to official guests all mobile patients were invited to attend. Official guest attendances were 1970-80, 1971-78, 1972-65, 1973-66, 1974-64. 
Yes. The service was relayed to all wards via the hospital broadcast system. 
The Deputy Commissioner for Repatriation in New South Wales on the advice of the Chaplains at the Hospital. 
The service was discontinued because there had been a considerable decline in the number of patients and staff attending the service in the previous two years. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (4) Clauses 7. 1 and 9. 1 of the Hospital Agreement between the Australian Government and the South Australian Government provide that outpatient services at the Royal Adelaide Hospital (and aU other hospitals which are recognised for the purposes of the Agreement) are to be provided free of charge, except in regard to the treatment of persons who are entitled to the payment of, or have been paid, compensation or damages in respect of the injury or disease which is being treated. These latter persons are those who are entitled to compensation under legislation relating to Workers' Compensation, Third Party Motor Vehicle Insurance Compensation or overseas seamen as provided for by the Navigation Act 1912-1965. 
With the exception of dental services or spectacles, outpatient services are available at recognised hospitals without the imposition of any means test. Clause 7.6 of the Agreement provides that a means test may be applied to determine the eligibility of patients to receive outpatient dental services and spectacles, without charge. As expressed in paragraph 4.8 of the White Paper "The Australian Health Insurance Program", the above provisions are in accordance with the Government's policy that generally oupatient services should be available without charge, but that a means test may be permitted to ensure that dental services and spectacles are available without charge to persons who have been able to meet a means test and who, in the past, have relied on outpatient departments for dental services and spectacles. 
The current charges in respect of those persons who are eligible for compensation or damages in respect of the injury or disease being treated are as follows for each attendance and treatment by a medical officer-$10 for each attendance and treatment by a nurse- $3 for x-rays- rates equal to the medical benefits authorised by the Health Insurance Act, as amended for splints, appliances and prostheses- when of a personal nature- cost of item for returnable items- deposit only, to be refunded on the return of the items for items in demand (e.g. wheelchairs)- variable hiring charges fixed to encourage the prompt return of the items. 
A right of private practice exists for radiologists and radiotherapists employed by some recognised hospitals such as the Royal Adelaide Hospital. These medical officers may treat private patients referred to them by private medical practitioners and may charge such patients on a normal feeforservice basis. Such patients are private patients and are not regarded as hospital outpatients. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No serious administrative problems have been encountered in the implementation of the Handicapped Child's allowance program. There were some problems because of the large number of claims received by my Department within a short period; now that the program has been running for some time, most of these have been overcome. A factor causing some concern is the difficulty in arranging panels of medical specialists to consider appeals against the rejection of claims. This aspect is being reviewed. 
Yes. 
At 1 1 August 197S, 148 19 allowances were being paid. From the inception of the scheme until 1 1 August, 984 applications had been rejected. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
) to ( 6 ) Not available. 
to (9) See the answers I provided as Minister for Repatriation and Compensation to parts (7) to (9) of House of Representatives question No. 3035. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
A reply has been forwarded to the honourable member. 
Reply to Letter (Question No. 3059)  Mr Bourchier  asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: Would he please answer my letter dated 27 May 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I answered the honourable member's letter of 27 May 1975 on 30 June 1975. For his convenience I have sent him a copy of my reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I answered the honourable member's letter of 10 June 1975 on 10 September 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I answered the honourable member's letter of 24 June 1975 on 10 September 1975. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Regional Councils for Social Development are required to ensure that where any of the organisations funded by them are dissolved at some future date, or are unable for any reason to continue to apply the assets for purposes for which and in accordance with the terms upon which they were provided, the property, in any capital assets, funded under the Australian Assistance Plan should revert to the Council concerned so that, subject to the Australian Government approval, it may be recycled for other welfare purposes, within the region. 'Capital assets' are considered as property having a life duration extending over several accounting periods (e.g. land, buildings, vehicles, furniture and fittings, equipment, etc., where the cost exceeds $ 1 00). 
Similarly, where a Regional Council is itself dissolved, the property in any capital assets held by the Council which were funded under the Australian Assistance Plan should revert to the Australian Government 
I move: 
In Division 590/3/04, omit '(for payment to the Post Office Trust Account)', substitute '(for payment to the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission)'. 
This is amendment number 2 on the list which was circulated in the name of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  at approximately 2.15 p.m. today. The reasons for the amendment are that the proposed appropriation as currently worded provides for payment of telephone rentals and postal concessions to pensioners to the Post Office Trust Account. Now that the Postal and Telecommunication Commissions are operating as statutory authorities the payments should be made to the Commissions. The amendment therefore substitutes the Postal and Telecommunication Commissions for the Post Office Trust Account. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The names of the regions that have received capitation grants under the Australian Assistance Plan, and the amounts approved, are: 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Act 1975 I present a report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of activities, to 30 June 1975, of the Department of Tourism and Recreation. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1560 which appeared in  Hansard  on 30 September 1975, pages 1482-3. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1589 which appeared in  Hansard  on 30 September 1975, page 1455. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 3110 which appeared in  Hansard  1 October 1975, page 1598. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 

 Ms Adrienne Mocatta. She is carrying out her duties satisfactorily. 
The Australian Government provides physiotherapy services free of charge to: 
Persons approved for assistance under the Australian Government Rehabilitation Service; 
Persons who qualify for such services under the provisions of the Repatriation Act. 
Other areas in which the Australian Government is involved directly in the provision of physiotherapy services are: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A reply has been forwarded to the honourable member. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 3110. 
I respond, I hope, to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  in the same way in which he made his speech, unemotionally. As Minister for Tourism and Recreation I happen to be charged with the responsibility for youth affairs. I believe that the $10m to $1 lm which we have been spending on the cadet units can be better spent throughout the community in training our youth- I mean both boys and girls- in leadership, discipline, adventure. We can get better value out of our $10m to $1 lm by perhaps helping such organisations as Outward Bound, the Duke of Edinburgh's Award, the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia and Youth Hostels Association of Australia. We can offer this money to the whole of the youth of the community, not just to 5 per cent of the eligible youth in Australia and not only to 16 per cent of the schools in Australia Unemotionally I believe that the cadet system in Australia did offer something to those young men who participated. 
Surprisingly enough, $10m to $ 11m was not giving us value. Something like 33 000 out of 630 000 youths of the age group involved were participating in the cadet units. I agree entirely that young people of this day, of yesteryear, or even further back, need some sort of direction, training and discipline. Above aU, I believe that they still Uke to be led. But from where I stand now I see a better investment of $ 10m or $ 1 lm than we were getting out of the army cadets in the schools throughout Australia. I listened to the letter which was written by the principal of the Moree Boys High School. I feel that his attitude is one that should be followed by a lot of principals of boys' high schools. I think that if the honourable member for Gwydir reads that letter again he will find that the principal of that High School is saying what I am trying to say now. We cannot aim at only a segment of the young people of Australia. If we want a good Australian I firmly believe that the young people in our schools should be given the opportunity to see, to search, to know and to learn how to be Aus.tralians They should take their chance in Australia. At all times they should be under some type of discipline and control, but particularly be under good leadership from our school teachers, parents and adults. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill embodies the Government's Budget proposals for improvements in social service pensions and benefits. These improvements while significant in themselves do not extend to substantial new initiatives in the social services field. As has been explained by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  this is a time for consolidation of advances pending a full review of the income security system in the next 12 months. The main provisions of the Bill are as follows: 
. The standard rate of pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers is to be increased by $2.75 a week to $38.75 a week. 
The married rate of pension is to be increased by $2.25 a week to $32.25 a week-that is, by $4.50 to $64.50 a week for a pensioner couple. 
Additional payments for children of pensioners and supporting mothers are to be increased by 50c a week to $7.50 a week for each child. 
Double orphan's pension- now payable at the rate of $ 1 1 a week- is to be extended to cover a child, one of whose parents is dead and whose other parent is in prison or in a mental hospital. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits payable to unmarried persons aged 18 years or more are to be increased by $2.75 a week to $38.75 a week. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits payable to married persons are to be increased by $2.25 a week to $32.25 a week. 
Additional unemployment and sickness benefits payable in respect of dependent spouses are to be increased by $2.25 a week to $32.25 a week. 
Additional payments for children of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries are to be increased by 50c a week to $7.50 a week for each child. 
The proposed pension increases will flow on to recipients of sheltered employment allowances. 
Honourable members will know it is the Government's objective to lift progressively the standard of living of pensioners by raising the standard rate of pension twice a year until it reaches 25 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings. Since December 1972, when the Government came to office, a substantial real redistribution of income has been effected in favour of pensioners and beneficiaries. However in the present climate of high inflation and unemployment the Government believes that for the immediate future all of us should show restraint in our demands for more resources, whether it be for public services or for higher incomes. For that reason the Budget proposes to increase, as a temporary measure, the standard rate of pension by the percentage increase in the consumer price index between the December quarter in 1974 and the June quarter in 1975 and to base the increase payable in the autumn of 1976 on the increase in the CPI between the June and December quarters of 1 975. 
This does not represent a change in Government policy or an abandonment of the principle that pensions should be raised to the level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We have decided to increase pensions this year by rises in the consumer price index as a temporary measure to ease the pressures of public spending on the economy. It is, however, interesting that for the first time since this Government has been in office we have, with this latest proposed increase, achieved our goal. Age and invalid pensions now represent 25.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. The increase proposed in this Bill resulting from this method of calculation in the case of the standard rate of pension is $2.75 a week. The proposed standard rate of pension is $38.75 a week, which is equivalent to 25.2 per cent of average weekly male earnings for the June quarter in 1975, the latest quarter for which figures are available. The increase will consequently maintain for pensioners the real gains in spending power that have been achieved by them since the Government came to office and, on the basis of the June 1975 figures, will marginally improve their position. With the proposed increases the standard rate of pension will have increased by almost 94 per cent since December 1972 and the married rate by 87 per cent. Compared with this, over the period from June 1 972 to June 1 975 the consumer price index increased by only 45 per cent and seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings increased by only 61 per cent. 
I will now give examples of some of the effects of the proposed increases. A class A widow or supporting mother will receive a basic pension or benefit of $38.75 a week, together with mother's allowance of up to $4 a week and additional pension of up to $7.50 a week for each dependent child. The mother's allowance is payable at $6 a week if there is a child under six years or an invalid child requiring full-time care. Thus, a class A widow or supporting mother with 2 noninvalid children over six years will receive a maximum pension or benefit of $57.75 a week. The same rate will apply to single age or invalid pensioners with children. If the pensioner or supporting mother pays rent supplementary assistance of up to $5 a week is payable in addition to pension. The maximum proposed pension of $64.50 a week for a married couple may also be increased by up to $7.50 a week for each dependent child and, if rent is paid, up to $5 a week is available by way of supplementary assistance. 
The proposed increases will have the effect of raising the limits of income and property at which pensions cease to be payable under the means test. This will enable people who are now excluded from pension entitlement to qualify for some payment for the first time. The limit of income which just precludes payment of a pension to a single person without children and with no property affecting his pension, will be increased by twice the amount of the pension increase to $97.50 a week. If he has no other income he will be eligible to receive some pension until the value of his property assessable for means test purposes reaches $5 1,100. For a married couple without children, the equivalent limits of income and property will be $163.50 a week and $85,840 respectively. 
A widow or supporting mother with one child and no property affecting will be able to receive other income of up to $ 126.50 a week before losing her entitlement to widow's pension, or supporting mother's benefit. If her child is under 6 years of age or an invalid child requiring full time care she will be able to receive other income up to $130.50 a week without losing her entitlement. If she has no income affecting, a widow or supporting mother with one child may have property to the value of $56,860. If her child is under six or an invalid child requiring full time care she may have property to the value of $58,940 before entitlement is extinguished. There are various combinations of income and property in between the figures I have quoted which will permit the payment of a full or part pension. 
In turning to the proposal to extend the scope of double orphan's pension I should first say that this pension was introduced by the present Labor Government in September 1973 as a measure of assistance for people caring for children who have permanently lost the companionship, support and comfort normally provided by parents. Double orphan's pension is paid in respect of a child both of whose parents, or adoptive parents, are dead. The principle also extends to a child one of whose parents, or adoptive parents, is dead if the whereabouts of the other is unknown to the claimant. 
Requests have been received from various quarters proposing that the scope of eligibility be extended to include a child whose sole surviving parent is in prison or in a mental hospital. The 
Government feels that the position of these children is not greatly different from that of children whose parents are both dead or where one parent is dead and the whereabouts of the other unknown. Accordingly it has been decided to extend payment to a person who is caring for a child one of whose parents is dead and the other serving a term of imprisonment for life or for not less than 10 years or who is a mental hospital patient and, in the opinion of the DirectorGeneral, will remain so for an indefinite period. 
The Bill also contains provisions relating to the treatment of de facto marriage relationships. The policy of the present and previous governments has been that couples living together on a bona fide domestic basis, though not legally married, should not be placed in a better position for pension or benefit purposes than if they were legally married. One effect of this is that the financial resources, if any, of a de facto spouse are included in the calculation of his or her partner's entitlement to pension or benefit. 
-My view of a de facto relationship is that I would never have one with you. However, attention has recently been drawn to anomalies arising from the fact that the definition of dependent female in sections 18 and 106 of the Social Services Act relate only to de facto relationships of 3 years' duration. The Government proposes to correct these anomalies by deleting the references to 3 years' duration. This will mean that in future a de facto wife who is living with a man on a bona fide domestic basis will qualify for wife's pension or attract additional unemployment or sickness benefit without any regard to a qualifying period on the same basis as women who are legally married. At present if they have not lived with their husbands for at least 3 years special benefit may be granted but the need to assist them in this way will cease as soon as the Bill receives the Royal Assent. 
The Bill also contains a provision which will give specific authority for the exclusion of a woman living with a man on a bona fide domestic basis from entitlement to a widow's pension. In doing so the Bill removes any doubt which may have existed in this area. While it will of course continue to be necessary for officers of the Department of Social Security to determine the facts in these matters it is proposed to reinforce the instructions already in force that all such inquiries must be conducted with tact and discretion. 
A further provision will enable an overpayment of child endowment to be recovered from any continuing entitlement to endowment. As the Principal Act stands at present this is not possible. The amendment will suit the convenience of endowees who for one reason or another have been overpaid endowment and have a continuing entitlement. 
In addition the Bill provides that where the rate of pension or supporting mother's benefit as determined under the means test is less than $ 1 a fortnight, payment will be made at the rate of $1 a fortnight. It has been found that the issue of cheques for small amounts such as 20 cents a fortnight- the minimum rate now paid- is often a source of annoyance rather than satisfaction to the recipient. In future the value of all fortnightly instalments of pension and supporting mother's benefit will be not less than $1. The same minimum amount is to apply to all adjusting cheques. 
The new rates provided for in this Bill will be payable from 4 November 1975 in the case of widow's pension and supporting mother's benefit and from 13 November 1975 in the case of age, invalid and wife's pension. Increases in the rates of unemployment and sickness benefits will operate in respect of payments due on and after 1 November 1975 or on and after the date of Royal Assent, whichever is later. The full year cost of the proposals in this Bill is estimated to be $5 18m and $234m in 1975-76. Increases in Service pensions will involve an additional $3 lm for a full year and $ 14m in 1975-76. For 1975-76 the total cost will be approximately $248m. 
The record of the Australian Labor Government in the field of social security since it gained office in December 1972 speaks for itself. The figures I have quoted in this second reading speech show conclusively that we have kept most if not all of our promises to the recipients of social service benefits in Australia. We have introduced new initiatives in social security that were left lying on the table or under the table for 23 years during the administration of governments formed by the Opposition parties. As there is talk of election in the air at the moment I want the people in receipt of social security pensions to recognise that this Government has done more for them in 3 years than previous governments did in 23 years. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Under the provisions of standing order 218, the debate has to be adjourned until a future day unless leave of the House is granted. Is leave granted? 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's proposals to update certain repatriation benefits, and will show the continuing recognition of our responsibility to those who made such a valuable contribution to the security of our country. We owe an everlasting debt of gratitude to them. Since coming to office this Government has made enduring and substantial reforms in the repatriation field. It is now time to take stock of these achievements and to consolidate the gains we have made. 
Under the Labor Government the needs of repatriation pensioners and their dependants have been recognised and much has been done to ensure that they are adequately compensated. For example the special rate (totally and permanently incapacitated) pensioner will, as a result of Government actions since 1972 and those now proposed, be in a financial position which is far better than that which existed under the previous Government. In March 1973 and retrospective to December 1972, the special rate pension, paid to the totally and permanently incapacitated veteran, was restored to the level of the minimum wage for the first time since 1950. Further, since 1973 the special rate pension has been increased commensurate with movements in the minimum wage. Since the Government took office this pension has already been increased by $20.10 a week. The new rate of $74.10 a week proposed in this Bill will bring the total increase to $26. 10 a week. Although the general ( 100 per cent) rate is not being increased on this occasion, the Labor Government has progressively raised it to the current figure of $28 a week- an increase of 100 per cent in less than 3 years. In contrast, the previous Government provided only one increase of $2 a week in its last 8 years in office. 
The increases in the war and defence widows' pension rate provides a further example of the concern shown by the Labor Government for the dependants of veterans. Since 1972 this pension rate has been increased by $16 a week. This Bill proposes a further increase of $2.75 a week. The new rate will be $38.75 a week. The intermediate rate of pension is also to be increased. This pension is paid to veterans who, because of servicerelated incapacity, are able to work only part time or intermittently and consequently are unable to earn a living wage. The Bill provides that this pension will be increased by $3.00 a week to $51.05. 
About 70 000 pensioners will benefit from the proposed increases in these pensions. The increases will cost approximately $8.8m during the current financial year. The service pension is also to be increased. It is payable, subject to a means test, to a veteran who served in a theatre of war and is aged 60 years or over- 55 years if a female- or who is permanently unemployable, or, irrespective of the area of service, suffers from pulmonary tuberculosis. Increases in Service pensions flow automatically from those proposed for age and invalid pensions in the Social Services Bill (No. 3) 1975. For the standard rate the increase will be $2.75 a week and for the married rate it will be $2.25 a week. The new standard and married rates of Service pension will therefore be $38.75 and $32.25 a week respectively. A total of more than 118 000 Service pensioners will benefit from these increases. It is proposed that increased rates will be effective from the date on which the Bill receives royal assent. As the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  has already announced, the Government has agreed to further improvements in disability and Service pension rates to apply as from the autumn of 1 976. Amending legislation to give effect to these further increases will be introduced early in 1976. 
The Bill amends the Repatriation Act to enable the appointment of a member of the Repatriation Commission to act as Secretary to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation and Chairman of the Repatriation Commission, in the absence of the person permanently appointed to those positions. Provision is also included in the Bill to remove any doubts about the right of appeal to an Assessment Appeal Tribunal by a member of the forces of a Commonwealth country whose claim for a service pension has been refused on the grounds that he is not permanently unemployable or suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. A further provision removes the need for service pensioners aged 70 years and over to notify the Repatriation Commission of any change in their financial position. 
Again I say that our record as a government since December 1972-  (Quorum formed). 
I thank the Opposition  Deputy  Whip for calling that quorum. I was about to complete my second reading speech on the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1975. As honourable members will recall, I was saying that again our actions in the field of repatriation have demonstrated a deep desire on behalf of the Australian Labor Party to see that our ex-service men and women receive the benefits to which they are justly entitled. I speak as a returned soldier. I speak as a secretary of the Repatriation Committee of the Australian Labor Party when we were in Opposition. I have taken a great deal of interest in repatriation benefits. There is no doubt in my mind that since 1972 the Australian Labor Party Government has demonstrated far more readily its interest in the welfare of our returned service men and women than did the previous government. I should like our ex-Service organisations, be they Navy, Army or Air Force, to compare our attitude, our achievements and our benefits to them with the previous benefits given by the Liberal-Country Party Government. There is no doubt that they will see that the Australian Labor Party Government since 1972 has demonstrated that it is interested in the welfare of ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen. I commend the Bill to the House. '  Mr CHIPP  (Hotham) (12.0)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  because of the Government's reaction in refusing to accept the Opposition's suggestion that the Social Services Bill (No. 3) 1975 be made an order of the day for a later hour this day I now move: 
That this debate be adjourned and made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
ELECTORAL BILL (No.  6) 1975  Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 14 October, on motion by  Mr Daly: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
As part of its broad National Development Scheme, the Girl Guides' Association undertook research into the needs of specific groups of young people in urban and rural areas. The research projects were to examine the extent of the need for after school and holiday recreation and care for underprivileged children, the problems of integrating Aboriginal children into the total community, possibilities of interaction between active and handicapped children and the extent to which existing programs in these areas are effective. 
The research projects are still continuing. 
The Association has submitted progress reports on these activities. Copies of these reports are available from my Department. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Joint Board of Christian Education undertook a study of the way in which a variety of churches in six widely scattered communities across Australia provided services to youth. Analysis of the data by computer has been completed and the final report is being prepared. 
I have long become resigned to the fact that most members representing the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in this House have a complete disregard for truth, justice and honour if they believe there is some political advantage that can be scored regardless of their actions or statements. The statements that are being made by some members of the Opposition on Medibank are untrue. One phone call to the Department of Social Security would have shown that they were untrue. 
The facts are that the estimated expenditure on Medibank from July to September was $106m. The actual amount of expenditure during that period was $84m. One subtraction will show a $22m under-expenditure on Medibank from July to September; that is, 23.32 per cent less expenditure than estimated. It is true that the number of claims being made on Medibank is higher than was expected by the Government, but the rate of expenditure is lower. I remind honourable members that the shadow minister for social security, the honourable member for Hotham, a few weeks ago was talking about dismantling Medibank and was reprimanded by the Leader of the Opposition. In the last few days the honourable member for Hotham has been talking about putting a levy on to pay for Medibank.  Mr Speaker,  you can judge the Opposition by its actions. 
I table the paper. 

 - Mr Speaker, you must have heard the story of the person who, about to deliver a guest lecture, stood up and said: 'Before I commence my prepared speech I would like to say something'. Tonight we had a classic example of an honourable member speaking for 15 minutes in a debate that is supposed to be an important debate and not saying anything. I remind this House that this Bill was introduced on 20 August this year and was debated and passed through in one day on 27 August. So I am now in the position where I cannot exactly state what the members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in this, the people's House, thought about the Bill. I have to go to the Senate to find out the attitude of the LiberalNational Country Party Opposition towards this Loan Bill. 
I go on to quote  Senator Baume  speaking to this Bill in the Senate on 15 October.  Senator Baume  stated:- . . . Less money is available for local government and less money is available for the other arms of government which have legitimate calls upon loan funds. 
I remind the House that for the first time in the history of Australia the Grants Commission made available in 1974-75 to local government untied grants of $56m and in 1975-76 approved $80m in untied grants to local government. Yet here is  Senator Baume  saying that this Bill, which is clearly entitled 'A Bill for an Act to authorise the raising and expending of moneys for defence purposes' is taking away money from local government. He cries about local government but for 23 years the previous government did not make those millions available to local government throughout Australia. Let us look at what  Senator Carrick  said in the Senate. He stated: . . . the Senate is debating the Loan Bill 1975. It is not, as the Government would like to have us believe, a minor machinery matter. It is a vital part of the overall strategy of the Federal Budget, and the testing of this Bill is a primary testing of the authenticity or the validity of the Budget itself. 
But we need to look at a debate that took place on 7 November 1968 when  Mr Freeth,  the then honourable member for Forrest, Minister for Air and Minister Assisting the Treasurer, introduced Loan Bill (No. 2). He said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain authority for any borrowing that it may be necessary to make from the Reserve Bank during 1968-69 to complete the financing of the Budget deficit. The Bill departs from the practice of seeking authority to borrow up to a specified upper limit. That practice has proved unsatisfactory. The difficulty with specifying an upper limit is that such a limit needs to be set high enough to ensure that, whatever our receipts and expenditures and our borrowings for the year might turn out to be, it will be adequate to cover the final cash deficiency at the end of the year. 
He went on to say: 
The borrowings for which authority is now sought will be made for defence purposes and the proceeds will be applied to finance expenditure from the Loan Fund on defence services. 
He went on further to say: 
It is proposed that, of the estimated expenditure on defence services authorised by the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1968-69, an amount to be determined by the Treasurer should be charged to Loan Fund where it will be financed from funds raised under the authority being sought in this Bill. Provision for charging part of our defence expenditure to the Loan Fund has been made in previous years when the net amount available from loan proceeds and other financing transactions has not been adequate to finance the deficit. 
So in 1968 a new open-ended Loan Bill was introduced by a Minister of the previous Government. In the Senate in the last week or so three or four Opposition senators have said that this is unprecedented, that it has never happened before. 
It is not unprecedented. You might have been the Treasurer when Gordon Freeth introduced that Bill. 
I tell you that you are only acting on double standards. The 3 senators I have quoted are all honourable men. In the light of what they have said in the past few weeks and what the right honourable member for Lowe approved for Gordon Freeth to introduce in 1968-69 he stands condemned. He has forgotten what he was doing. He did say that funds would be used for defence purposes. Can he deny, or can any of those senators deny, that when they  were talking the other day they were speaking honestly? Did they know the intent and purport behind the Bill that the right honourable member had Gordon Freeth introduce in 1968-69?  ( Quorum formed) 
The Bill that we are debating, which has been delayed and rejected by the Senate, is entitled 'A Bill for an Act to authorise the raising and expending of moneys for defence purposes'. I do not know the motives of the Opposition. Were they to put fear into the minds and hearts of all Australians that our defence forces would be allowed to run down, or were the motives even more sinister? Did the Opposition want to put fear into the men and women in our defence forces so that they would believe that their salaries, their allowances and other expenditure would not be made available to them? I think I have shown quite clearly that in 1968-69 an open-ended Loan Bill such as is this Bill was introduced by the then Government. It has been repeated on other occasions. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise of point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to authorise increases in ordinary care and intensive care nursing home benefits payable in respect of nursing home patients. The increases apply to patients in approved nursing homes other than nursing homes for which State governments have accepted a special responsibility. The increases were announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in the Budget Speech and, as foreshadowed, the Bill provides for them to be effective from the first age pension pay day in November- that is, 13 November 1975. 
There are three different benefits paid to nursing home patients: 
The basic benefit of $3.50 a day authorised by section 56 of the National Health Act and payable in respect of all qualified patients; the supplementary benefit of $3 a day authorised by section 57a and payable in respect of intensive care patients- that is, those patients in need of continuous nursing care and supervision or who are receiving intensive rehabilitation; and the additional benefit authorised by sections 57b and 73c. This benefit is payable at rates which vary from State to State. The Government finances the benefit for Pensioner Medical Service Pensioners. Other patients can insure with a registered hospital benefits fund to receive the benefit. 
No increase in the basic benefit of $3.50 a day is proposed. 
The supplementary benefit of $3 a day was introduced in recognition of the fact that the cost of caring for an intensive care patient was higher than the cost of caring for an ordinary care patient. The margin of extra cost has widened since the benefit was introduced in 1969. Accordingly it is proposed that this benefit be increased from $3 a day to $4.40 a day. The basic benefit of $3.50 a day and the supplementary benefit of $3 a day have always been paid at the same rates in all States. However, the rates of the additional benefit vary from State to State, reflecting the different costs of conducting nursing homes from State to State. These variations in costs stem in part from variations in State government requirements as to physical and staffing standards in nursing homes. 
The variable benefit rates have caused anomalies and have led to criticisms of the arrangements. The Government believes that it is preferable to have uniform benefit rates in all States. The proposal to fix a common rate of $5.95 a day for the additional benefit in New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia is the first step by the Government towards uniform rates. The amounts of the increases over existing benefit rates are $1.60 a day in New South Wales and the Australian 
Capital Territory, $1.15 a day in Queensland and $ 1 .75 a day in Western Australia. The rate of $5.95 a day is based on the costs of a model nursing home having physical standards and staff sufficient to provide adequate nursing home care. The model was developed after consultation with officers of State governments. 
The rate of additional benefit at present payable in Victoria, South Australia and the Northern Territory is $7.80 a day and in Tasmania $6.40 a day. These rates are already higher than the uniform rate based on the model nursing home. The Government therefore takes the view that increases in the rates in those States or the Northern Territory are not justified at this time. Further, the Government believes that the State governments should be prepared to accept a greater share of the responsibility for financing nursing home care. They should be prepared to give any necessary assistance to nursing home patients in States where private nursing homes charge higher fees due to the costs they incur in meeting State determined standards, particularly staffing standards, that are higher than those regarded as adequate in other States. 
State governments should also be prepared to accept a greater role in the financing of nursing homes for which they have accepted a special responsibility. Consistent with this belief the Government does not propose to increase the rates of benefits for nursing homes conducted by or on behalf of the States or which receive State subsidies. These are Government or assisted nursing homes as defined in the Bill. The estimated cost of the increases in benefit rates provided in the Bill during the current financial year is $10m. Including this additional expenditure, it is estimated that Australian Government assistance towards meeting the cost of nursing home care under the National Health Act and the Nursing Homes Assistance Act will be some $190m during 1975-76. This compares with expenditure of $93m in 1972-73 and means that expenditure in this area will have more than doubled since the present Government assumed office. 
Finally, the Bill provides for the term 'Government or assisted nursing home' to be substituted for the term 'Government nursing home '. It further provides for nursing homes that have been prescribed as Government nursing homes to be deemed to be prescribed as Government or assisted nursing homes. This is a technical amendment designed to ensure that the term used in the Act adequately covers all the nursing homes that are at present prescribed as 
Government nursing homes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill before the House is to make amendments to the Nursing Homes Assistance Act 1974 in connection with the definition of a 'government or assisted nursing home'. The amendments are consistent with proposed amendments to the National Health Act for which provision is made in the National Health (Nursing Homes) Bill 1 975. 
The Bill provides for the term 'government or assisted nursing home' to be substituted for the term 'government nursing home'. It further provides for nursing homes that have been prescribed as government nursing homes to be deemed to be prescribed as government or assisted nursing homes. This is a technical amendment designed to ensure that the term used in the Act adequately covers all the nursing homes that are at present prescribed as government nursing homes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Trade Practices Bill (No. 2) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports of working parties on the National Rehabilitation and Compensation Scheme. 
I move: 
Add at the end of sub-clause (2) the following paragraph: 
to a bank that is the holder of a licence. '. 
This amendment provides for a bank which is a licensed travel agent to be exempted from the obligation imposed by clause 39 ( 1) to open and maintain a statutory account. The exemption is necessary because the complex nature of the accounting systems used by banks would make it  difficult for them to comply with the provisions of clause 39. I might add that the Australian Bankers Association made representations on this matter and we agreed to its suggestions. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
1 ) Subject to sub-section (3), a licensed travel agent shall cause to be paid into an account maintained at a bank in pursuance of sub-section 39(1) moneys received by the agent- 
a ) for or on account of- 
rights of carriage; 
rights of carriage and rights to travel services; or 
any service included in a class of services prescribed for the purposes of sub-section 4(1), to be provided for another person in accordance with arrangements made or to be made by the agent; or 
by way of a refund received by an agent in respect of a payment made out of such an account, on the day on which the moneys are received by the agent or on the next following day on which that bank is open for business. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) after 'agent' insert 'to whom section 39 applies'. 
This amendment is consequential on the previous statement to clause 39. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 41 and 42 by leave taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 43. 
Where a licensed travel agent is carrying on business otherwise than as a travel agent under this Act in addition to carrying on business as such a travel agent, the agent shall, if so required by the Board by notice in writing served on the agent, lodge with the Registrar, as required by the notice, for consideration by the Board a profit and loss account and balance-sheet in respect of that other business for the financial year of the agent specified in the notice. 
A licensed travel agent shall not be taken to have complied with a notice given to the agent under sub-section (5) unless the profit and loss account and balance-sheet lodged by the agent with the Registrar have been audited by the auditor of the agent and the agent has also lodged with the Registrar a certificate, or copy of a certificate, by the auditor stating whether the auditor is satisfied that the profit and loss account and balance-sheet agree with the financial records of the agent and appear to him truly to represent the transactions and financial position of the agent in respect of the financial year and the businesses to which they relate and, if any of them appear to him to fail so to represent the transactions and financial position, also stating particulars of the failure. 
If it suits the convenience of the Committee I propose to move circulated amendments No. 18 and No. 19 together. I move: 
Omit sub-clause (5), substitute the following sub-clause: 
Where a licensed travel agent is carrying on business otherwise than as a travel agent under this Act in addition to carrying on business as such a travel agent- 
it is sufficient compliance with sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to a financial year if, subject to sub-section (8), the agent lodges with the Registrar within a period of 4 months after the end of that financial year, for consideration by the Board- 
a profit and loss account and a balance-sheet in respect of the business of the agent as a travel agent under this Act and the other business of the agent; and 
a financial statement, in accordance with a form approved by the Board, in respect of the business of the agent as a travel agent under this Act; and 
if the agent has not lodged a profit and loss account and balance-sheet referred to in paragraph (a) with the Registrar in respect of a financial year the Board may, by notice in writing served on the agent, require the agent to lodge with the Registrar, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, a profit and loss account and balance-sheet in respect of that other business carried on by the travel agent in that financial year.'. 
Omit sub-clause ( 8 ), substitute the following sub-clause: 
A licensed travel agent- 
shall not be taken to have lodged a profit and loss account and balance-sheet with the Registrar for the purposes of paragraph (5) (a) or for the purpose of complying with a notice given to the agent under paragraph (5) (b) unless the profit and loss account and balance-sheet have been audited by the auditor of the agent and the agent has also lodged with the Registrar a certificate, or copy of a certificate, by the auditor stating whether the auditor is satisfied that the profit and loss account and balance-sheet agree with the financial records of the agent and appear to the auditor truly to represent the financial position and transactions of the agent in respect of the financial year and businesses to which they relate and, if any of them appear to fail so to represent the transactions and financial position, also stating particulars of the failure; and 
shall not be taken to have lodged a financial statement for the purpose of sub-paragraph (5) (a) (ii) unless the statement has been audited by the auditor of the agent and the agent has also lodged with the Registrar a certificate by the auditor in relation to that financial statement of such a kind as would comply with sub-section 46 (3) if- 
references in that sub-section to a profit and loss account and balance-sheet were references to that financial statement; 
references in that sub-section to the accounting records of the agent were references to the accounting records of the agent that relate to the business of a travel agent carried on by the agent under this Act; and 
references in that sub-section to the transactions and financial position of the agent were references to the transactions and financial position of the agent in relation to the business of a travel agent carried on by the agent under this Act.'. 
The purpose of the amendments is to facilitate compliance with sub-clause (1) of clause 43 by licensed travel agents whose travel agency business is conducted, for example, as a department within a corporation. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 44 agreed to. 
Clause 45 (Appointment of Auditor). 
I move: 
After sub-clause (5) add the following sub-clause: 
Where the accounts and records of financial transactions of a licensed travel agent are audited by the Auditor General of Australia or of a State, this section does not apply to or in relation to that travel agent'. 
This amendment provides for recognition of the Australian AuditorGeneral and also recognition of a State AuditorGeneral. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 46 to 51 by leavetaken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 52. 
Where a licensed travel agent, being a natural person, dies and the Board does not grant a permit authorising a person to carry on the business formerly carried on by that agent on behalf of the legal personal representative of that agent, that legal personal representative- 
shall, in respect of each financial year of the agent to which this paragraph applies by virtue of sub-section (5), lodge with the Registrar, within a period of 4 months after the day on which the agent died, for the consideration of the Board- 
a profit and loss account; 
a balance-sheet; and 
the certificate referred to in sub-section 46 (2) relating to that profit and loss account and balance-sheet, in respect of the business carried on by the agent during that financial year, 
shall give to the Registrar, as soon as practicable after the death of the agent, any notice under subsection39(4),(5)or(6) 
that the agent had been required to give, but had failed to give, to the Registrar before he died; or 
that the agent would, but for his death, have been required to give to the Registrar; and 
shall, as soon as practicable after the death of the agent, cause any moneys in the possession of the agent immediately before his death, being moneys that the agent would, but for his death, have been  required to pay into an account maintained by the agent in pursuance of sub-section 39 ( 1 ) to be paid into such an account. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
For the purpose of paragraph (3) (a), a financial year of a licensed travel agent who has died, being a financial year that ended on or before the day on which he died and in respect of which he has not lodged with the Registrar a profit and loss account, a balance-sheet and the certificate referred to in sub-section 46 (2) relating to that profit and loss account and balance-sheet is a financial year of the agent to which that paragraph applies. 
I seek leave of the Committee to move amendments numbers 21 and 22 together. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (3) omit paragraph (a), substitute the following paragraph: 
shall, in respect of each financial year of the agent to which this paragraph applies by virtue of sub-section (5), comply with section 46 in relation to the business of a travel agent carried on by the agent under this Act during that financial year as if he had carried on that business and the reference in sub-section 43 ( 1 ) to the period of 4 months after the end of that financial year were a reference to the period of 4 months after the day on which the agent died; '. 
In sub-clause (5) omit 'he has not lodged with the Registrar a profit and loss account, a balance-sheet and the certificate referred to in sub-section 46 (2) relating to that profit and loss account and balance-sheet', substitute 'he has not complied with section 43 '. 
They are machinery amendments consequent upon the amendment to clause 43. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 53 to 55 by leave taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 56. 
1 ) The Registrar or any other person may complain to the Board, in writing, that a licensed travel agent, or a registered travel agent manager to whom section 54 applies, has failed to fulfil the duties of a travel agent under this Act. 
A complaint under sub-section ( 1 )- 
shall set out particulars of the failure; and 
if the complaint is by a person other than the Registrarshall be made to the Board by delivering it to the Registrar and depositing the prescribed amount with the Registrar. 
The request seems reasonable and we will consider it. Clause 57 (2) (a) says that if it is of the opinion that the complaint is vexatious or frivolous, the Board can reject the complaint after it has heard it. Perhaps it is necessary to include this provision. In most political parties some form of deposit had to be lodged if one is going to complain about a fellow member of that party. I think that if someone complains about a travel agent or a travel agent applicant, the complainant should be prepared to put in a statutory declaration. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Do you accept the amendment? 
MrSTEWART-No. 
I admit that I cannot give the answer to the honourable member's question. We will look at it and if it is felt necessary make the amendments. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 57 to 71- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 72. 
A person shall not, by writing or speech, use words calculated 
to influence improperly the Board or a witness before the Board in relation to an inquiry or proposed inquiry under this Act; or 
to bring the Board into disrepute in connexion with an inquiry or proposed inquiry under this Act. 
Penalty: $500. 
I am afraid that the Government cannot accept the amendment. I am told that the wording in the legislation is a standard provision which appears in much legislation of a similar nature. Having read through this clause again this afternoon I feel that having regard to events over the last two or three weeks perhaps a provision similar to clause 72 ought to be inserted into our Standing Orders. It provides that the 'use of insulting language to the Board or a member of the Board' is not allowable and that no one is allowed 'to bring the Board into disrepute in connection with an inquiry or proposed inquiry under this Act'. Perhaps you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  could submit that to the Standing Orders Committee. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 8 ), omit ' or expires '. 
This amendment removes the obligation on the holder of a permit to return the permit after it has expired. Once a permit has expired it is of no further use. On the other hand a revoked permit could be misused and its return would be essential. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 81 to 95- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 96 (Board to consider claims). 
This clause relates to claims against the fidelity fund, not directly against travel agents. Compensation is not payable unless the licence has been revoked, suspended or surrendered or has expired and has not been renewed. I will take up the other points made by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and see whether there is justification for any amendment to clause 96, but at the moment the Government does not accept it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 87. 
This matter has not yet been resolved. Discussions are taking place with the industry to try to achieve an equitable system of collection of the fund's or the agent's fee. It has been suggested that each location will draw a special fee, which will not depend on the size of the operation. So those people who are operating a number of travel agencies or offices will be paying so much per office. If necessary, if the fidelity fund is used we hope that it will not be used because this legislation will perhaps prevent itthe amount may be increased or reduced as the case may be. The matter is under consideration at the moment and will be covered by the regulations. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion ( by  Mr Stewart  ) proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 
I move: 
Omit the definition of 'bank', substitute the following definition: ' "bank" means- 
a bank as defined by section 5 of the Banking Act 1959-1974; or 
a bank established by a State Act; '. 
Most of the amendments that I shall move on behalf of the Government seek to improve the Bill either as a result of representations made by the industry itself, by State governments, by State banks or by members of the Opposition. Most of the amendments are machinery measures. This amendment concerns State banks which were overlooked. The amendment proposes to allow travel agents to maintain statutory accounts with either a bank as defined by the Banking Act or with a State bank. 
I think honourable members will find that banks are defined in the Banking Act. Both the previous Government and this Government have restricted the use of the word bank'. Travel agents will be entitled to operate through all banks which are in operation in Australia at the moment. State banks were not covered in the Banking Act but, as a result of this amendment, they will now be covered in this legislation. All banks now operating in Australia will be so covered providing that their franchise allows them to carry this sort of business. They will be entitled to operate under this legislation if they so qualify. If any new banks are recognised in the future, I feel that they would be covered by the Banking Act. 
Yes. If such banks are covered by the Banking Act and are allowed to participate in trading bank and savings bank activities they would be. If they were operating in Australia for other reasons, they would not be. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 4. 
Where a person is not engaged, in the course of carrying on business, in any activity of a kind referred to in paragraph (1 ) (a) other than- 
arranging for the provision of, or providing, the carriage of persons in vehicles of which he is the owner; or 
arranging for the provision of, or providing, the carriage of persons as set out in paragraph (a) and, in addition, arranging for the provision of, or providing, in association with their being so carried, accommodation or meals, or accommodation and meals, either with or without any rights to travel services or any services included in a prescribed class of services, for persons who are being so carried, the person does not carry on business as a travel agent for the purposes of this Act. 
For the purposes of this Act, a person shall be deemed to be the owner of a vehicle if he has contracted to purchase the vehicle or is hiring the vehicle under an agreement known as a hire purchase agreement, but shall be deemed not to be the owner of a vehicle hired by him that he is otherwise hiring or chartering from another person. 
I move: 
After 'meals,' insert 'at premises of which he is the owner,'. 
After sub-clause (3) add the following sub-clause: 
For the purposes of this Act, a person is the owner of premises if, and only if, he holds a prescribed interest in the premises. '. 
These amendments to clause (4) are intended to extend the application of the concept of ownership mentioned in subclause (2) (a) to the provisions of meals and accommodation as set out in subclause (2) (b). The amendments will restrict meals and accommodation referred to in clause 4 (2) (b) to meals and accommodation provided by the operator at premises he owns. This is to safeguard the operators who are only carriers and are not providing meals as well. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause 4, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
This Act extends to- 
a body corporate that is incorporated for a public purpose by an Act, by regulations made under an Act, by a law of a Territory or by a law of a State; and 
a company or other body that is incorporated under the law of a State or Territory and is a body corporate in which Australia or a State has a controlling interest, being a body corporate, company or other body that is carrying on business as a travel agent in connexion with the carriage of persons for reward on prescribed journeys. 
I do not disagree. I think that State-owned, government-owned and operated tourist bureaus should be exempted. Action will be taken to exempt them under the regulations. Those not constituted under State Acts are probably outside the scope of the legislation in any case, but we will look at this when we are casting the regulations. 
No. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a Registrar of Travel Agents. 
I move: 
In Clause 6, add the following sub-clause: '(2) The Registrar shall be a person employed under, or whose services are made available in accordance with arrangements made under, the  Public Service Act  1922-1975.'. 
This is a machinery measure to clarify the terms of employment of the Registrar of Travel Agents to be employed under the Public Service Act. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following:  '8. (1) The Board shall consist of 3 part-time members, namely: 
a chairman; 
a deputy chairman; and 
1 other member. '(2) The  chairman  and the member referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) (c) shall each be appointed by the Minister. '(3) The Minister may appoint a person to be a  deputy  member of the Board, or persons, not exceeding  1  in number, to be  deputy  members of the Board, in relation to the member referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) (c). '(4) A person is not eligible to be appointed as the  chairman  unless he is enrolled as a legal practitioner of the High Court, of another federal court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory and has been so enrolled for not less than 5 years. '(5) A person is not eligible to be appointed as the  deputy chairman  unless he is an officer of the Department of Tourism and Recreation. '(6) A person is not eligible to be appointed as the member referred to in paragraph ( 1) (c) or as a  deputy  member unless he has a knowledge of, and experience concerning, the business of travel agents. '(7) The  chairman,  the member referred to in paragraph (1) (c) and a  deputy  member each holds office, subject to this Part, for such period, not exceeding 3 years, as the Minister specifies in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. '(8) A person who has attained the age of 65 years shall not be appointed or re-appointed as a member or  deputy  member, and a person shall not be appointed or reappointed as a member or  deputy  member for a period that extends beyond the date on which he will attain the age of 65 years. '(9) The  deputy chairman  shall be appointed by the Minister and holds office during his pleasure. '. 
This amendment provides for the appointment of up to 7 representatives of travel agents as deputy members of the Travel Agents Regulation Board. The practical effect of the amendment is to enable any one of the deputy members  to attend a meeting of the Board when the principal member representing the travel agents is absent. Instead of people having to attend all the meetings of the Board, if the principal member is away he may nominate one of the 7 deputy members so that the Board can then hear the case whether it is being heard in Perth, Kalgoorlie, Brisbane or anywhere else. 
I had a really good look at this clause before I decided to amend it. I thought that we had covered most of the complaints that had been made to us in the amendments that I have moved. I now have some doubt that the legislation may be too restrictive. The reason the Board is to be a 3-member board is that only in the initial stages will it be sitting regularly. In the initial stages the members will be travelling to all States and perhaps to various parts of the States. Do we want 10 representatives running around for 15 months and then sitting there, not being used again? 
It is proposed that the  chairman  will have a legal background because the Board is likely to be used afterwards for hearing appeals and so forth. The  deputy chairman  is proposed to be an officer of the Department of Tourism and Recreation because the general administration of the Board will be carried out by that Department. There is to be one other member. I take the point that has been made: I am prepared to trust myself to do the right thing. But would I be prepared to trust some other member- for instance, a member of the Opposition or an honourable member from the Government side? Perhaps something could be said there. I will make no promises. The matter will need to be looked at. The third member should specifically be, as the amendment suggests, a person with a knowledge of and experience concerning the business of travel agents. It is my intention to write to the Australian National Travel Association asking it to submit a couple of names from each State because I want to cut down on the amount of travel involved. If there were  deputy  members in each State, a replacement, who would be a representative of the travel industry, would be available if needed. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clauses: ( 1a) a deputy member of the Board shall be paid, in respect of his attendance at a meeting of the Board, such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but if no determination by that Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. 
a member (other than the deputy chairman) and a deputy member of the Board shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed.'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 to 15 by leave taken together. 
Clause 1 1. 
The Minister may remove a member other than the deputy chairman from office for misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. 
Clause 12.  a member may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Minister. 
Clause 13. 
1 ) If a member other than the deputy chairman- 
becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors or compounds with his creditors or makes an assignment of his remuneration for their benefit; 
is absent, except on leave granted by the Minister, from 3 consecutive meetings of the Board; or 
fails to comply with his obligations under sub-section (2), the Minister shall terminate the appointment of the member. 
a member who is directly or indirectly interested in- 
an application for registration under Pan IV; 
any matter concerning a registered travel agent manager; 
a licence granted or proposed to be granted under Part IV, otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company which consists of not less than 25 persons and of which he is not a director, shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Board. 
a disclosure under sub-section (2) shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board, and the member- 
shall not take part after the disclosure in any deliberation or decision of the Board in relation to the application, licence or matter; and 
shall be disregarded for the purposes of constituting a quorum of the Board for any such deliberation or decision. 
Clause 15 (Meetings). 
I move: 
In clause 11, omit 'a member other than the deputy chairman', substitute 'a member (other than the deputy chairman) or a deputy member of the Board '. 
In clause 12, after'member' insert ', or a deputy member of the Board,'. 
In clause 13, sub-clause (2), omit 'not less', substitute more'. 
In clause 13, after sub-clause (2) insert the following subclauses: (2a) If a deputy member of the Board- 
becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors or compounds with his creditors or makes an assignment of his remuneration for their benefit; or 
fails to comply with his obligations under sub-section (2b), the Minister shall terminate the appointment of the deputy member. (2b) a deputy member of the Board who is present at a meeting of the Board at which there is under consideration by the Board- 
an application for registration under Part IV; 
any matter concerning a registered travel agent manager; or 
a licence granted or proposed to be granted under Part IV, being an application, matter or licence in which he is directly or indirectly interested, otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company that consists of more than 25 persons and of which he is not a director, shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest to the Board.'. 
In clause 13, sub-clause (3), omit 'a disclosure under subsection (2 ) shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board, and the member', substitute 'a disclosure under sub-section (2) or (2b) shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board and the member or deputy member of the Board '. 
In clause15, after sub-clause (8) add the following subclauses: (9)Where- 
the member referred to in paragraph 8(l)(c) has notified the  chairman  or the  deputy chairman  that he expects to be unable to attend a meeting of the Board; or 
the office of the member so referred to is vacant on a day on which a meeting of the Board is held, the  chairman  or  deputy chairman  who was so notified or convened the meeting, as the case may be, shall, unless it is impracticable to do so, cause a  deputy  member of the Board to be notified of the date, time and place fixed for holding the meeting and to be invited to attend the meeting. 
10) A deputy member of the Board who has been invited to do so under sub-section (9) may attend a meeting of the Board at which the member referred to in paragraph 8 (1) (c) is absent or that is held during a vacancy in the office of that member, and, if he does so, he has all the powers of that member at the meeting and shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be that member. '. 
The word 'misbehaviour' is generally the wording used in other Acts. It is a normal standard provision. Clause 13 ( 1 ) (b) deals with a member of the Board being absent on 3 consecutive meetings except on leave granted by the Minister. That is a provision in other Acts. For instance, if one of the members of the Reserve Bank Board is to be absent from one meeting the Minister has to give him permission to be absent from that meeting. If someone from this Board is absent from 3 meetings without leave granted by the Minister it is an indication that he is not serving the Board or representing the industry. So I feel that that provision is not unwarranted at all. I believe that it is found in other Acts. 
If the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  reads on he will see that sub-clause (2) states:  otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company which consists of not less than 25 persons and of which he is not a director, shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Board. 
This again is a general provision that before a member of the Board can participate in discussions he has to disclose his interests. A new appointee to the Reserve Bank Board, before taking up his appointment, wanted that exact position clarified. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 19 by leave taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 20. 
Sub-sections ( 1 ) and (2) do not apply in relation to the business of a travel agent carried on, with the approval of the Board, at premises otherwise than under the immediate control of a registered travel agent manager. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (3), substitute the following sub-clause: 
) Sub-section ( 1 ) and (2) do not apply in relation to the business of a travel agent carried on at premises otherwise than under the immediate control of a registered travel agent manager- 
if the business is so carried on with the approval of the Board; or 
if the business is so carried on in prescribed circumstances and the prescribed conditions (if any) applicable in respect of those circumstances are complied with.' 
The purpose of this amendment is to enable regulations to be made to cover special circumstances under which a licensed travel agency may be conducted other than under the immediate control of a registered travel agent manager, for example, during short absences of that registered travel agent manager. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 2 1 to 24 by leave taken together. 
Thought was given to reducing the age. The Bill provides that before a person may become a travel agent manager he must have had 12 months experience in the business. These days most young people do not leave school until they are 1 7 or 1 8 years of age. They need 12 months experience in the business before they can apply for registration as a travel agent manager, and it was felt that the extra couple of years was necessary to give them the necessary experience. They will be handling other persons' funds and trust accounts. I have to be careful that I do not discourage our young people between 18 and 21 years of age, but it was thought that for the sake of safety the age should be 21 years. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 25. 
) An application under sub-section ( 1 )- 
shall state the name under which the applicant proposes to carry on business as a travel agent; 
shall specify- 
if the applicant proposes to carry on business as a travel agent at 2 or more premises the address of the principal premises, and of the branch or each of the branches, at which the applicant proposes so to carry on business as a travel agent; or 
in any other case the address of the premises at which the applicant proposes to carry on business as a travel agent; 
An application under this section by a partnership shall specify the name of the partner who is to be the holder of the licence on behalf of the partnership. 
With regard to subclause (2), the standards for licensed premises have been put to us by the industry. The national body for the industry, the Australian Federation of Travel Agents, specifies the standard of premises which it requires before a travel agent is allowed to join the Federation. We hope that when this legislation comes into operation people will be starting out in business on their own. If they are to be successful travel agents perhaps they will be very quick to join AFTA. We feel that there is no need for government to enter this preserve and to say: 'You shall have premises of such and such a size or of such and such a standard'. We still want the travel industry to operate with a measure of freedom. We do not want to tie it right down. If prospective travel agents are to be registered by government and to be approved by their federation, 2 bodies will be looking at them to see whether they are the right type of person. I believe it can be taken for granted that once they have faced 2 scrutinies they will make certain that their premises are up to standard because from the date of operation of this measure they will be liable to pay compensation if they are not efficient operators; and efficient operators would normally have reasonable premises. 
With regard to the second proposed amendment, it has been the experience of government for a long time that public notices are rarely read. I think this could be demonstrated if I were to duct a quiz here- I do not want hands up- by asking how long it is since any of us have read a public notice. We again want to cut out the expenditure and the troubles which applicants for a licence might have to face. 
I would not expect them to be so required, but to become registered travel agents or travel agency managers they will need to be a particular type of person. I feel that we can run the risk for a little time to see whether those people who become registered travel agents have premises of a desired standard or whether it will be necessary to amend the Act. I think we will find that most people who get a travel agent's registration will automatically join the Australian Federation of Travel Agents. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 26. 
1 ) Subject to this section, where application is made to the Board under section 25, the Board shall grant the application if the applicant satisfies the Board that the financial resources of the applicant are sufficient to enable the applicant to carry on business as a travel agent efficiently at the premises specified in the application in accordance with paragraph 25 (2) (b) and also satisfies the Board- 
if the applicant is a natural person- that the applicant is a person of business integrity; 
if the applicant is a company- 
that each director of the company is a person of business integrity; 
that the company has, apart from this Act, the legal capacity to carry on business as a travel agent; and 
that the company is entitled to carry on business in the State or Territory, or in each State or Territory, in which it proposes to carry on business as a travel agent; or 
if the applicant is a partnership- 
in respect of each member of the partnership (if any) who is a natural person- that he is a person of business integrity; and 
in respect of each member of the partnership (if any) that is a company-that the requirements of paragraph (b) are fulfilled in respect of the company. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (3). 
Sub-clause 29 (3) is redundant since sub-clause 25 (5) referred to no longer applies. Sub-clause 25 (5) was redrafted as sub-clause 24 (2). This is only a machinery measure. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 30 to 33- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 34. 
1 ) The Registrar may, within 14 days after an application is furnished to him, object to the granting of the application on any ground on which the Board is entitled to refuse to grant the application. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit ' 1 4 ', insert '28'. 
This amendment allows the Registrar more time in which he may lodge an objection to the application made to the Board. 
I will have this reviewed, but the answer I would give at the moment is that sub-clause 123 (a) already provides for the making of regulations in this respect for public notification. The sub-clause reads: making provision with respect to the advertising of applications for licences and .applications for registration as travel agent managers; 
If that does not quite cover the objection of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  I will have the matter looked at but at the moment I would not accept his argument. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 35 and 36- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 36a. 
I take up the point made by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  but my advice is that the Board's discretionary powers are difficult to translate into judicial criteria. The Board's actions are subject to review by the tribunal established in accordance with regulations to be made under Part IX. If my information is correct, perhaps the appeal is not necessary but I shall have the matter looked at. I will not accept the amendment at the moment. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 37 agreed to. 
Clause 38. 
1 ) A licensed travel agent shall- 
keep such accounting records as correctly record and explain the transactions and financial position of the agent with respect to the business of the agent as a travel agent; 
so keep accounting records as to show particulars of all moneys received and all payments made by the agent from day to day in the course of carrying on that business; 
so keep accounting records as to enable profit and loss accounts and balance-sheets referred to in section 43 to be prepared; and 
so keep accounting records as to enable those accounts and balance-sheets to be conveniently and properly audited in accordance with this Act. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled  Leisure- A New Perspective,  together with a statement by me relating to that report. 
Pursuant to section 39(3) of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965-73 I present the annual report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with financial statements. 
For the information of honourable members I present the second main report of the Australian Government Commission into Poverty entitled  Law and Poverty in Australia.  This report has just been received by the Government and is still in manuscript form. Arrangements have been made for it to be printed as quickly as possible, but printed copies are not likely to be available until early next year. 
Because of this and the interest in the reports of the Poverty Commission the report is being tabled in manuscript form. So that people will have immediate access to it, I have arranged for manuscript copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library, in each State Library and in the Australian National University in Canberra. In addition, the report can be seen at the offices of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane. 
Clause 3 of the Bill states: 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1) the figures '$350,000,000' and substituting the figures '$356,000,000' 
I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: ' 3. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the figures "$350,000,000" and substituting the figures "$356,000,000"; 
by inserting after sub-section ( 1 ) the following subsection: "( 1 A) On or after 30 June 1 976, the Treasurer may, on such terms and conditions as he determines, for the purpose of enabling the repayment by the Corporation of moneys borrowed by the Corporation, other than moneys advanced under this Act, during the financial year that ends on 30 June 1976 for the purposes referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), advance to the Corporation, by way of a loan, an amount not exceeding the difference between the sum of the amounts advanced to the Corporation under subsection ( 1 ) and $356,000,000. "; 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the word and figure "sub-section (1)" and substituting the words "this section"; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: "(3) Advances made to the Corporation under this section shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 5356,000,000.".'. 
The amendment derives from the fact that subsequent to the introduction of the Bill in the House of Representatives on 27 August 1975 the Acting Treasurer agreed that if the $80m available under the proposed appropriation or any further amounts which might be appropriated under the Wool Marketing (Loan) Act during 1975-76 had not been fully advanced to the Australian Wool Corporation by 30 June 1976, further advances would then be made to the Corporation if necessary so that it would be able to meet its obligations to the consortium of trading banks in respect of repayment of the recently negotiated $70m line of short term credit. Any advances so made would of course still be for the purpose of financing wool purchased by the Corporation at auction or tender under its reserve price scheme as set out in section 4 of the existing legislation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
All Medibank premises are leased; the Health Insurance Commission does not own any premises. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Spectacles are not generally available from the Department of Social Security in the way that some pensioner concessions are available. However, pensioners and beneficiaries accepted for treatment or training under the Australian Government Rehabilitation Service may be provided with free spectacles. 
In most States spectacles may be provided free or at a reduced cost by State Government authorities or instrumentalities or from certain public hospitals. In some States the Australian Optometrical Association and individual optometrists provide services on a similar basis. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
and (2) The suggestion on page 276 of the Report 'Poverty in Australia' has been noted by the Minister for Social Security. 
The suggestion, taken by itself, would appear to have advantages, but it should also be considered in the context of the costs and administrative complexities that would be involved. 
The Government will be making a thorough examination of the recommendations and suggestions contained in the Report 'Poverty in Australia' and, in addition of course, of those from related reports prepared by the Poverty Enquiry that deal with problems facing migrants. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable members question: 
This suggestion is receiving consideration together with other recommendations of the Poverty Commission. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question number 3304. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A grant of $6,000 was made available to the Young Men's Christian Association of Australia (YMCA) to commence data collation and assessment as an initial stage in the creation of a Division within the YMCA to conduct further research into youth needs and the development of resources and planning. 
The Planning and Resource Division has been set up and quantities of information and resources have been obtained from overseas and are being collated and indexed for use by the Australian YMCA and other community organisations. The research is ongoing in nature. 
Copies of progress reports are available within my Department. 
-As the Vice-President of the Executive Council, I have no information that would put the blame on anybody who was associated with the loans affair; nor do I have information that would completely exonerate anybody, if there is any blame attached to anybody. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourism Commission Act 1 967-1974, I present the annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Scripture Union is an Australia-wide organisation working, inter-alia, in the field of drop-out /unattached youth. The Union, at the request of youth workers active in this area, agreed to convene a conference to enable such workers to come together to consider jointly some of the issues inherent in their work. 
The Australian Government, through my Department provided a grant of $3,800 to the Scripture Union for the purpose of preparing a report on the subject. 
Seventy-five youth workers from around Australia attended the Conference from 24 to 28 September 1973 entitled 'Frontier Youth Workers' Consultation', to share their ideas and draw on overseas experience in their field. The range of youth work encompassed by those present included detached youth work, work within sub-cultures and work amongst young people who reject traditional social structures. 
The report of the findings of the Conference was submitted to me on 22 November, 1973 and has since been distributed widely. Copies are available within my Department. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Asian Youth Council (AYC) was founded in 1972. It is a voluntary association of Asian National Coordinating Committees of Youth Work which conceives and implements projects designed to further Asian youth cooperation. I am sending a copy of the Asian Youth Council Statutes to the right honourable member from which he can learn in more detail the aims and objectives of AYC 
Membership of AYC is open to representative national committees of youth organisations from countries in Asia. Australian youth has been represented at AYC by the National Youth Council of Australia. 
In the initial year, funds for establishment expenses and operating costs for the first year were contributed by member organisations. The Australian Government through my Department, provided a non-recurrent grant of $10,000 as Australia 's contribution to these expenses. 
-I recall that yesterday at question time when the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  sought an inquiry into the amount of money that had been received by a senior Cabinet Minister from the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation the  Speaker  said that accusations of that type had to be dealt with in a substantive motion. Tonight we have heard the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  quote from various newspapers making shocking accusations against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Over the last few months members of the former Opposition made accusations not only against the then Prime Minister but also against senior Ministers over the Khemlani affair. Members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party travelled overseas to try to rake up some evidence to prove that there was something in the arrangement to obtain loans from Arab countries. Now we are having a rehash of the situation. We are no longer the Government. We are now the Opposition. I suggest to all honourable members opposite that they should recognise that this country is already heading towards an unemployment figure of between 500 000 and 750 000 people. I suggest that the new members in particular should look at the policies that are now being enunciated by their dictator, by their Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  their Leader who will not allow his Ministers even to make a Press statement unless he clears it first. If we are worried about Australia then surely it is time that we should realise that in respect of these unsubstantiated allegations and the loan affair not a tittle of evidence could be produced despite desperate efforts to do so. 
I have already conveyed my congratulations personally to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees. I now do so publicly. I convey my congratulations to. those new members who have made their maiden speeches. I feel they will find their next speech and all those after much more difficult to make than they found the first one. I express my regret that at the election in 1975 I lost so many good friends and colleagues from my Party. To those honourable members who took their place I merely say that I hope they can take as much interest in their electorates and do as good a job as my colleagues did. They were dedicated members of Parliament. They were dedicated to their constituency, but unfortunately in this game of politics there can be only one winner. The honourable member for Cook smiles and nods. 
-He knows. Might I say that  Mr Ray  Thorburn is already on the track ready to recover the seat of Cook at the next election. I have noted that some of the new members in their maiden speeches have made extremely outlandish comments. They have been conservative in the extreme. May I suggest to them all that this is the year 1976, not the year 1900. The horse and buggy days have gone. The old conservatism no longer prevails. Unless you keep pace with the young, Australia is not going to progress and develop. I say to those who have already made their speeches- I know that generally they were talking to the people in their electorates: Let us see if you can bring your ideas up to date and think generally of the nation and all the problems that we have, I admit that the problems that we have in Australia are very small compared with the problems that exist in other nations. I have no intention of regurgitating the happenings of October-November last year except to say that no matter from which angle they are examined the decision given by  Sir John  Kerr was, to say the least, most peculiar. It will be argued in legal and political circles for many years, but for certain a similar peculiar decision will never again be made. 
The next subject I wish to raise is not one that I enjoy raising but I raise it because during the election campaign the Liberal Party's slogan was 'Turn on the Lights'. I was approached on 23 December by a  Mr Arthur  Launt the proprietor of Mobile Kitchens, Villawood, who showed me the following telegram which was addressed to Malcolm Fraser, Parliament House, Canberra: 
Lang candidate unable to meet caterer's account $1,685.86 for last Saturday evening's celebrations. Please advise within 4 hours otherwise district court action and Press advised. Get some lights on. 
The telegram was signed 'Arthur Launt'. After sending the telegram  Mr Launt  received a cheque dated 19 December 1975 for $817.36 signed by the Liberal candidate 'For and on behalf of Northfield Real Estate (Mortdale Pty Limited).  Mr Launt  saw me on 23 December and I sent the following telegram to the Prime Minister. 
Have received a complaint from Arthur Launt, proprietor Mobile Kitchens, regarding outstanding payment for Liberal Party function arranged by my opponent in the Lang Electorate . . . Understand  Mr Launt  has already contacted you personally. Would be pleased if you would arrange for an amount of $868.50 to be transmitted to  Mr Launt  immediately. 
I have received no reply to that telegram and I understand that  Mr Launt  has had no reply to his telegrams. 
-Some $1,685.86. On 13 January 1976 the following notice appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in the Company Notices column: 
In the Supreme Court of New South Wales, Equity No. 325 1975 Northfield Real Estate (Mortdale) Pty Ltd, and in the matter of the Companies Act of 1961, notice is hereby given that a meeting of creditors will be held at the offices of the Liquidator, 105 Pitt Street, Sydney, on the 21st day of January, 1976, at 2.30 o'clock in the afternoon. To entitle a creditor to vote thereat, his proof must be lodged with the undersigned not later than 9 o'clock in the forenoon of the 21st day of January, 1976. Proxies to be used at the meeting must be lodged with the undersigned at 105 Pitt Street, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, not later than 9  0  'clock in the forenoon of the 2 1 st of January, 1976. 1 understand that there was an earlier petition against the candidate. That was made in September 1974 but was not proceeded with. 
The latest in this saga of the election debt of my Liberal opponent in the amount of $868.50 is that on 17 February 1976 a letter setting out in chronological order the arrangements made for the catering was delivered to the Liberal candidate. Let me quote from that letter: 
Tuesday, 16 December, I saw  Mr Gadsden  to work out accounts. Dockets were produced for all costs agreed to by him. Account, as attached, was submitted to you. 
Wednesday, 17 December, I saw Jack Gadsden in the morning and he said he would have to see you regarding payment. At approximately 3 p.m. I called at the Campaign Office and saw you and  Mr Gadsden.  You said you were not happy with the account as it exceeded the original quote and you could only manage to pay $ 1,200. You and  Mr Gadsden  then had an argument over campaign funds and the payment of local newspaper accounts. 
Thursday, 18 December,  Mr Gadsden  told me he was too busy to discuss the matter and I then forwarded a telegram to  Mr Malcolm  Fraser . . . 
Friday, 19 December, at 5.30 p.m. pan payment of the account was received when you gave me your personal cheque for $817.36. My bank manager expressed doubt regarding the cheque. 
Monday, 22 December,  Mr Gadsden  said the cheque I received on Friday would be all I would get as there was no money left. He said I could summons him if I liked but he had the best lawyers in Australia and as he was only on the dole, I would not have much hope of getting the amount outstanding. 
One of the famous phrases that is being used by Liberal and National Country Party members at the moment is 'dole bludgers'. I raise the matter only because the proprietor of Mobile Kitchens has been at me consistently to do something about it. He has contacted the Prime Minister, I contacted the Prime Minister, and the account is still not paid. I merely ask now: How many other Liberal candidates have outstanding election debts, and what is the supposedly high principled Liberal Party prepared to do about this amount which is owed to the proprietor of Mobile Kitchens? 
I now wish to register a very firm complaint about the abolition of the Department of Tourism and Recreation. The only substantive statement that I can find by the Liberal Party on the Department of Community Development- it is now administered by  Senator Greenwood  who is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development- was issued on 10 May 1974 by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden.  The media release said: 
In the belief that governments should assist individuals in the community in the pursuit of their own excellence we will be increasing grants to small groups, to amateur associations, local clubs and sporting bodies. We believe this is very important. 
It went on to say: 
The Department will promote and encourage cultural, social, recreational and sporting activities within the community. It will provide opportunity for people to enjoy the improved standards of living as the potential for them is achieved. 
Further on it said: 
Through the Department of Community Development and in association with States and local government a Liberal-Country Party government will actively promote the arts, tourism, recreation and sport and many other social activities which enrich communities. 
It concluded by saying: 
In relation to sport this Department will promote activity at all levels. Not only will it promote international teams but it will provide incentives and initiatives for the large number of smaller organisations catering for specialised choices throughout the community. 
That is just one other Liberal Party election pledge that has been broken since 1 3 December. 
People in the community have not recognised the necessity for promoting our tourism industry and our recreational activities. The present Government has demolished the Department of Tourism and Recreation. It has put tourism under the control of the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  and it has put sport, recreation and physical fitness under the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, administered by  Senator Greenwood. 
I would like to cite .some figures concerning tourism in Australia and its importance to our economy. It is estimated that the Australian travel industry generates some $3,000m a year, or 8 per cent of gross national income. It employs an estimated 10 per cent of the work force; contributes substantially to State, Commonwealth and local revenues; stimulates the economies of rural areas; and in 1974 earned approximately $200m in foreign exchange. Expenditure by Australians on tourism overseas amounted to approximately $360m in 1974. Tourism is a great employer of female labour. It is also a decentralised, smokeless industry. In their maiden speeches a number of new members have talked about tourism in their own electorates, yet this Government is prepared to put the tourist industry in Australia back into the doldrums again. It is time that the whole community recognised the strife in which the tourist accommodation industry in Australia finds itself at the moment. I, as Minister for Tourism and Recreation, arranged for a special investigation of the tourist accommodation industry by the Industries Assistance Commission. The report was received by the Government on 2 December 1975. It still has not been tabled and no decision has been taken. 
The accommodation industry in Australia now is in a desperate state. Most of our major chains have dismissed night porters, porters, cancelled room service and weekend meals to cut costs. In 1974 one chain proprietor sold 8 properties and reduced head office staff from 35 to 14. 1 appreciate that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is at the table comes from a tourist area. While he was a member of the Opposition he spoke on tourism at every available opportunity. He said that tourism was an industry that should be fostered, developed and assisted. I ask him to use his good offices now that he is a Minister to see that some of those things he wanted me to do but which I could not get done in 3 years will be done. I ask that the Press release from  Mr Speaker,  then the Leader of the Opposition, of 10 May 1974 be incorporated in  Hansard. 
My question is addressed to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and relates to the notice standing in his name for general business Thursday No. 4 concerning the presentation of a Bill relating to corporations and the securities industry. Is the honourable member aware of the great loss and suffering caused to many Australians by the spectacular failures of financial corporations and partnerships engaged in the securities industry? In view of the fact that a person who incurs a debt as a member of a partnership remains liable for that debt after he has left the partnership, and that directors of corporations which are creditors of failed partnerships have a duty to their shareholders to pursue all persons who were partners in the partnership at the time the debt was incurred to seek satisfaction of that debt, I ask whether the honourable member's Bill will ensure that white collar crime of this type would be more difficult to perpetrate in the future and that persons who deceive the public in security transactions are brought to justice. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the reasons for the alteration in the procedures on the release and public scrutiny of Industries Assistance Commission reports. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Was the report of the Industries Assistance Commission for interim assistance to the tourist accommodation industry received by the Government on 2 December 1975. 
If so, what action has been taken on the report. 
When is the report to be released. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the answer given by the Minister to the honourable member for Sydney on Wednesday last on the subject of Lebanese immigrants. I ask why the Minister did not inform the House of the imminent closure of the Australian Embassy in Lebanon. Was his action deliberate or inadvertent? Was the closure decision made by him, by another Minister or by some official? If he did not know of the closure of the Embassy as late as last Wednesday, can this be taken as an indication of a gross lack of communication between Ministers and departments? Most importantly, what action does the Minister or the Government now intend to take to have processed all immigration applications from the war-torn country of Lebanon? 
-As no Minister in the present Government has been clearly identified as the Minister responsible for sport, I ask the Minister for Health: Has his attention been drawn to the serious injury suffered by a professional boxer from the United States of America while participating in a professional contest last week at the Blacktown Returned Services League Club in 
New South Wales? If so, has he given any consideration to the banning of professional boxing on health grounds? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When is the new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees to be introduced into the Parliament. 
Can it be guaranteed that the new scheme will be ready to come into operation on 1 July 1976, as promised. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Does the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange refer to a company called MTD Pty Ltd? Did this company extract considerable profits from company flotations? Was it used by its principals, the now defunct sharebroking firm of Patrick Partners, to make huge share trading profits from secret dealings which the report said were against the interests of the clients of Patrick Partners? What legislation exists or is proposed to prevent firms such as MTD being used in this way by their principals in future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he or any other Minister received a deputation from sporting organisations to discuss the abolition of grants to National Amateur Sporting Organisations introduced by the previous Government. 
If so, (a) who received the deputation, (b) who comprised the deputation and (c) what was the result of the discussion. 
If not, when will the deputation be received, and who will receive it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to fulfill the commitment by the previous Government to grant $250,000 to the Australian Olympic Federation towards the expenses of sending an Australian team to the Olympic Games in Canada later this year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What stage had been reached by the Task Force conducting the national recreation survey before the inquiry was terminated. 
Is the information gathered by the Task Force to be made available to Parliament and the community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Royal Blind Society of New South Wales receive any grants from the Federal Government towards the operational cost of (a) braille libraries and (b) nursery and kindergarten training centres. 
Are blind persons eligible for training through the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. 
Is the Royal Blind Society of New South Wales eligible for such assistance as (a) capital grants, (b) rental grants, (c) maintenance grants, (d) staff salary subsidies and (e) training fee. 
Are blind children under 16 years of age eligible for (a) handicapped child's benefit when living away from home or (b) handicapped child's allowance when living in the family home. 
Ifnot,whynot. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What are the terms and conditions of employment for motor vehicle drivers in Telecom Australia. 
Are drivers of light and heavy vehicles employed under the same terms and conditions. 
Are all employees offered permanency. 
Is there any examination for permanency available to an employee. 
What are the lines of promotion for motor vehicle drivers. 
What is the number of (a) light vehicles, (b) heavy vehicles and (c) earth moving equipment owned and operated by Telecom Australia. 
Are heavy vehicles and earth moving equipment under centralised control. 
Is the maximum efficient use of vehicles being maintained by Telecom Australia. 
Can he say whether there is a great deal of dissatisfaction among employees in the various heavy vehicle sections. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What was the total cost of the Independent Inquiry into the Repatriation System. 
What organisations representing veterans and their dependants have been invited to offer comments on the report. 
When does the Government expect to be in a position to announce alterations in the Repatriation System arising from the recommendations of the report. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
1 ) What savings have been made in the administration of the Department of Repatriation. 
Where were these savings made. 
Have any benefits or services available to veterans and their dependants been abolished or curtailed; if so, what are they. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether Ampol and H. C. Sleigh are considering a merger to allow the joint company to effect a takeover of Amoco. 
If so, has the proposed merger and takeover been referred to the interdepartmental committee on foreign investment for consideration. 
Has the Australian Industry Development Corporation been approached to fund the takeover; if so, how much has been requested and what would be the terms of the loan, if granted. 
In the event of the proposed takeover becoming effective, will the employment of the staff of Amoco be safeguarded. 
Would the proposed merger and takeover be in the interests of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce; upon notice: 
When does the Government intend to re-introduce the Travel Agents legislation which was passed by the House of Representatives on 28 October 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum was granted to the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia in the (a) 1968-69, 1969-70, 1970-71 and 1971-72 Budgets by the Liberal/Country Party Governments and (b) 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76 Budgets by the Labor Government. 
For what purposes were the grants allocated in each of the Budgets in part ( 1 ). 
Has an assurance been given to the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia that the grant will not be reduced below the level operating in 1975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated amount per annum generated by the Australian travel/tourist industry. 
What percentage of the Gross National Product does this represent. 
What percentage of the workforce is employed in the travel/tourist industry and how much of this is female labour. 
How much in foreign exchange is earned by the travel /tourist industry. 
What is the estimated amount per annum spent by Australians travelling outside Australia. 
Does the Government intend to offer any incentives to the Australian tourist industry; if so, what form will these take. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will long term contributors to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund who elected to retire at 60 years of age and do so, be entitled to receive 50 per cent pension, plus the 0.25 per cent for over 30 years service and indexation of pension, under the proposed new scheme; if not, why not. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the  Australian Trader  is to be withdrawn from the Tasmanian run in the coming 1 2 months? If so, does the Government propose to continue its support to the Australian National Line in its SydneyHobart passenger service? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
I ) Had the Study Group into the feasibility of a National Sports Institute prepared and submitted a report to the Department of Tourism and Recreation before the inquiry was terminated: if so. will the report be tabled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the duties and responsibilities of the Australian Sports Council established by the previous Government. 
What were the names and backgrounds of the members of the Council. 
What method was used to select members of the Council. 
Did the Council discuss and approve most, if not all, of the policies adopted by the previous Government in youth, sport and recreation. 
Does the Minister intend to re-establish an Australian Sports Council; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
I ) Did the Minister, on Friday. 19 March 1976. advise a delegation representing some 50 national sporting organisations that there was a need to rationalise the ad hoc spoi ls and recreation programs inherited from the previous Government. 
2 ) Was the statement totally accurate. 
3 ) If not. why was it made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Has consideration been given to restricting international travel by residents of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Federation of Travel Agents now voiced strong criticism of the Travel Agents Bill which was passed by the House of Representatives on 28 October 1975. 
If so, what assurances have been given to AFT A that its further submission on the proposed legislation will be included in any new bill to be introduced. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Has he received any reports from any source on the behaviour of certain judges in the Family Law Court? Is it open talk in legal circles that some judges are refusing to accept evidence, delivering homilies, castigating persons appearing before the Court and prejudging some of the cases? Is he satisfied that the custody, counselling and reconciliation provisions of the Family Law Act are being utilised as intended? If he knows nothing of these complaints, will he institute an immediate inquiry into the operations of the Family Law Court to ascertain the truth or falsity of the allegations? 
asked the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What were the policies on (a) Youth and (b) Sport and (c) Recreation adopted and implemented by the Liberal-Country Party coalition governments between 1949 and 1972. 
What sum was allocated to each of these areas by each of the Governments during those years. 
What is the estimate of expenditure submitted by the Department for (a) Youth, ( b) Sport, (c) Recreation and (d) National Fitness in the forthcoming Budget 
I assure the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  that I have no intention of throwing any dead cats into the ring. I agree with the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who said that these amendments to the Family Law Act are necessary. I believe that as the Family Court of Australia has been operating only since January this year it is much too soon to judge the operations of the Court or of the Family Law Act, but the figures do seem to indicate that the divorce rate is rising under the liberal conditions of this Act. I intend to keep a fairly close surveillance over the operations of the Family Law Act and the Family Court. It was only last Thursday that I asked a question of the Attorney-General about the behaviour of some Family Court Judges. I thank the Attorney-General for the answer that he gave me to that question. I ask him now: Will he keep that matter under close scrutiny? The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  has raised the same complaint that I raised the other day. Again I say that the Family Law Act and the Family Court have been in operation for too short a period for anybody to judge whether the counselling, reconciliation and other provisions of the Act are operating in the way that was expected by members of this Parliament when the Bill passed through the House last year. 
-Yesterday I asked a question without notice which was ruled out of order. It is for that reason that I am compelled to speak during the adjournment debate tonight. I do not intend to canvass the ruling of the  Speaker.  I merely comment that to err is human and the  Speaker  on several occasions since he assumed his office has shown that he is very human. Last week the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  announced the introduction of a new cadet training scheme. In his statement he said: 
Three factors were important in shaping this new scheme. The first is my belief, and I am sure this is a belief shared by all honourable members, that we have an obligation to do all we can to encourage young people to develop the qualities of leadership, discipline, self-reliance and loyalty which the previous cadet training schemes fostered. 
I do not intend to anticipate debate on that statement. I merely mention that the cost of the scheme is anticipated to be $7.6m. Involved in the operation of the new schemes will be 141 regular servicemen and 20 public servants. The maximum number that can be catered for under the scheme is 42 000 all of whom are male school students. I predict that this hotch-potch scheme will not be successful. A large portion of the $8m allocated will not be utilised and much of the amount which will.be spent will be wasteful expenditure. 
The announcement of the Minister for Defence caused officials of several organisations concerned with imbuing young people, both male and female, with the same qualities stressed by the Minister to contact me. They reported that they had every reason to believe that funds made available to their organisations by the Whitlam Labor Government in the 1975-76 Budget would be drastically reduced and in some cases withdrawn in the first budget of the FraserLynch Government. The organisations likely to be affected include the National Youth Council of Australia, the Scout Association, the Girl Guides Association, the Surf Life Saving Association, amateur sporting organisations, the Duke of Edinburgh Award Committee, the Outward Bound Movement and other community and church youth organisations. The officials point out to me that their organisations encourage young people to develop the qualities mentioned by the Minister for Defence. They stress that their organisations cater for hundreds of thousands of young people from all sections of the community, not a mere 42 000 young males who attend our more affluent private schools. They emphasised that their organisations are well known, long established and efficiently managed. They are predominantly administered by unpaid volunteers. The officials are certain that they can achieve far greater results for a larger section of the young people of Australia for a quarter of the amount allocated to the new cadet training schemes. I agree with them. 
The Labor Government was accused of taking ad hoc decisions, of shooting from the hip, of having our priorities wrong and of making policies on a patchwork quilt basis. If the fears of the officials of the organisations I have mentioned are real, the same charges can be levelled at the present Government. If we look at some of the decisions that have been made recently on Medibank, on the indexation of taxation, on the new family allowances scheme and on depreciation allowances as incentives to industries, we see that there is nothing more certain than that this Government, in the few months it has been in office, is making ad hoc decisions, it has its priorities and is aiming not at the people in the community who deserve assistance but rather at the people who follow the Liberal-National Country Party Government. I appeal to the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman),  to ensure that the programs commenced or enlarged by the Whitlam Government for the young people of Australia are maintained at least at the present level for 1976-77. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated total expenditure by Australians travelling overseas during 1975-76. 
What is the estimated total expenditure by international travellers to Australia for the same period. 
Is the drain on our international reserves as a result of Australians travelling overseas causing concern to the Government; if so, what action is contemplated to reduce the difference between the sum spent by Australians proceeding overseas and the sum spent by tourists coming to Australia. 
-Today I want to nail the broken promises of this present Liberal-National Country Party Government to sporting organisations and recreational organisations. Prior to the election in December last year organisations involved in sport, recreation and national fitness and the affairs of youth were given all sorts of assurances by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Ministers in this present Government which was then the caretaker Government. But I remind honourable members that between 1949 and 1972 when the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government had been in office no action at all, or very little action, had ever been taken to assist our amateur sporting organisations and our other voluntary sporting and recreational bodies. It was not until Labor became the Government in 1972 that we saw the establishment of a Department of Tourism and Recreation which was charged with the responsibility of doing something for those people in our community- young, middle-aged and old- who desired to participate in competitive sport or in some other field of recreational activity. For the first time in Australia's history policies were initiated and introduced. This Government, prior to and even after the election, made all sorts of promises. On 17 December the then Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Senator Withers,  made announcements of grants for sporting and recreational facilities throughout the length and breadth of Australia. I will come back to that point a little later. 
On 1 1 March, at the opening of the Diamond Valley civic centre sporting complex,  Senator Greenwood  said: 
II is an excellent example of federalism at work. 
He went on to point out why that was so and said: 
This appears to me to be an entirely responsible approach to the provision of community facilities having regard to the resources available and to the demands across the nation. 
Further on in his speech he said: 
National sporting associations have received considerable Government assistance over the past two or three years and very few Australians would begrudge them this help. It has been based generally on a $1 for $1 subsidy and the Commonwealth's contribution has not really been all that large when one considers the tremendous amount of voluntary effort that is involved in running these groups. 
Since those 2 statements we have seen the youth, sport and recreation sections hidden in the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. We have seen the staff employed in those sections reduced. We have seen programs introduced by the Labor Government decimated despite those assurances given by  Senator Greenwood  in March. On 19 March  Senator Greenwood  met a deputation representing over 50 sporting organisations. In his Press statement released on that date he said: 
The Government is not abandoning its interest in and its commitment to sport. 
He went on to say: 
Directions may change and priorities may differ but the Government will continue to give careful consideration to the role and needs of sport. The provision of opportunities for sport, competitive recreation and purposeful use of leisure time are vitally important to our concept of community development. 
Let us see what has happened. Assistance to sporting organisations has been reduced and, in some instances, completely withdrawn. Allocations for sporting and recreational facilities have been withdrawn or delayed. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will be vitally interested in this because, prior to being sacked as Minister for Tourism and Recreation, I had prepared a list of allocations to be made. On 17 December the then Minister made the announcements. One of them was for the construction at Taree of an indoor sports centre, including a games room, toilet, showers, foyer, meeting room and kitchens, to the value of $120,000. No contract has yet been signed for that facility and no funds have been made available. In answer to Question No. 512 asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  which appears on page 2692 of  Hansard  of 28 May, the Minister mentioned all the allocations that were announced on 17 December. There were 2 1 allocations in New South Wales. No contracts have been signed for twelve of those projects because the local government and sporting organisation bodies do not know what will happen in the future. For the . other 9 projects no funds have been made available to the local council or the sporting organisation concerned so that they can proceed with the development of these recreational and sporting facilities. All organisations, including local government, are now in a state of flux as to what will happen to them. They do not know whether the projects they have put before the Government will receive any assistance. They do not know whether the money made available for the assistance of sporting organisations will continue. 
I made a speech during the adjournment debate last night in which I asked the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to see that the allocations of funds to sports, youth and recreational organisations are continued in the 1976-77 Budget. I doubt very much that this will happen because this Government - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It is now 15 minutes to 1 o'clock. In accordance with standing order 106, the debate is interrupted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in the interdepartmental committee inquiry into the re-development of the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga area as a tourist resort. 
How long has the committee been considering the matter and what are the causes of delay in finalising the report. 
What action has been taken to re-develop the area. 
-After viewing the performance of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and studying his statement, I am certain that he is convinced that Napoleon was speaking to him personally when he made his famous statement: 'Every private carries a general's baton in his knapsack'. Unless the Minister for 
Defence gets his feet back on to the ground, I can see him, dressed in a general's uniform and with his aide-de-camp, perhaps a batman and a member of the women's army, all suitably attired, following him in single file down the passageway and into the House. I can see them standing rigidly at attention while he comes to the centre table, puts one arm across his chest and holds his general's baton in his other hand. In that stance, taken together with the moustache that he wears, he will have a striking resemblance to 2 infamous and defeated defence chiefs of yesteryear. The depth, content and substance of the promised White Paper will need to be far better than this statement, or he will quickly join Napoleon and Hitler.  His  demise will be organised, manipulated and directed by that arch executioner and double agent, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  in his reply to the Minister's statement, pointed out the shallowness of the Government's defence policy. Outside of the promise to allocate more than $ 12,000m for defence purposes over the next 5 years, nothing new appeared. The Minister was unable to give any details of the areas in which the allocations would be spent. As recorded at page 2385 of  Hansard of  25 May, he frankly admitted: 
The Government's defence advisers are deeply involved in determining what priorities and what options should be included by the Government within the 5-year defence program with respect to equipment, manpower and facilities in the present state of technology and on the present outlook. 
Nowhere in his statement is an immediate new initiative announced. The approvals for equipment which he detailed were already known or in the pipeline before the Labor Government was summarily dismissed from office by a general of a different type. In order to substantiate my statement I shall quote from a speech made by the then Minister for Defence, the Honourable Bill Morrison. When addressing the working session of the Sixtieth National Congress of the Returned Services League in Canberra on 25 October 1975,  Mr Morrison  said: 
The validity of these observations - 
That is, about new equipment and criticisms of it- about the lack of sound new equipment decisions in the late sixties and early seventies is clear from the value of new equipment approved and proceeded with for the following years: 

<graphic href="099131197606044_46_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="099131197606044_46_1.jpg"></graphic>

In short, in the 3 Budgets for which the Labor Government had been responsible we have allocated more than twice the amount to equipment than the former Government did in its last 5 Budgets. 
That statement was made by the then Minister for Defence in the Labor Government, the Honourable Bill Morrison, on 25 October 1975- only a few weeks before the Labor Government was summarily dismissed. The practice that is being adopted by this Government in deciding and announcing how much is to be allocated to pet policies without taking into account the overall budgetary demand is dangerous. I speak from experience. The Government has taken  ad hoc,  hastily considered decisions on defence, Medibank, taxation, family allowances, depreciation and investment allowances, funeral benefits, legal aid, the cadet scheme, child care and many other things. 
The Government's attitude seems to be to dismantle and destroy as quickly as possible all initiatives introduced by the Labor Government, irrespective of their merit or community demand. But, most seriously of all, the complaint that I can level against these decisions is that they have been taken prior to the overall consideration by the Cabinet of the departmental and statutory bodies' requirements for 1976-77. The Government is heading for financial disaster while it follows its blind get-even approach towards the Australian Labor Party and its own pet policy approach to certain avenues of government. I warn the Government that the Opposition and the public will be scrutinising closely the spending of the promised $ 12,000m for defence purposes. We expect to get far more than the rhetoric that has been given to us in this statement by the Minister for Defence. 1 turn now to mention briefly the new cadet scheme that was announced recently by the Minister for Defence. In his announcement he stated: 
Three factors were important in shaping this new scheme. The first is my belief, and I am sure this is a belief shared by all honourable members, that we have an obligation to do all we can to encourage young people to develop the qualities of leadership, discipline, self-reliance and loyalty which the previous cadet training schemes fostered. 
I agree that all members of parliament, all leaders of the community, have an obligation to develop qualities of leadership, discipline, selfreliance and loyalty in our young people; but I doubt that the introduction of the new cadet scheme will achieve those aims in a wide enough section of the community for it to be of any great value. In his statement the Minister declared that the cost of the scheme will be approximately $7.6m. Involved in the operation of the new cadet scheme will be 1 14 regular servicemen and 20 public servants. In all 42 000 young male students will be covered, and a large proportion of those will come from our more affluent private schools. We see how this Government now and other governments of similar political persuasion during the period between 1949 and 1972 have shown lack of consideration of the young girls in our community. The only mention that is made of girls in relation to the new cadet system in the Minister's statement is this: 
Cadet service for girls will be given consideration after the new scheme is properly established and then the Government would welcome submissions on this. 
So it will be a considerable time before the Government decides to implement even one scheme so that the qualities which are instilled in our male youths will be available to the female young people of Australia. I predict that this scheme, which is ill conceived and costly, will not be successful. The money expended will be expended wastefully. Not all of the $7.6m allocated will be taken up. The Government's decision was taken in secret. Submissions were called for. Not one of the submissions received has been placed before the Parliament, and I think it is mentioned in the statement that 1000 submissions were received. However, a public document was presented to the Parliament on 24 July 1974. It was a report on the Army cadet corps which was compiled by a committee of inquiry chaired by  Dr T.  B. Millar, M.A., Ph.D., Australian National University, Director of the Australian Institute of International Affairs, Canberra. The Millar Committee made certain recommendations. The first recommendation is as follows: 
That the present Army Cadets system be retained, with modifications, and on a totally voluntary basis during peace time. 
The Labor Government, after looking at the report that was presented to this Parliament in July 1974, decided to disband the cadet units. Most of the evidence which can be read in that report forces one to the conclusion that that cadet system was far too costly, inefficient, and unsuccessful. To illustrate my point, let me cite the numbers of cadets involved in the old cadet system. Out of a total of 1940 secondary schools in Australia catering for boys, only 312, or 16 per cent, had school cadet units. The number of boys in the Army cadet system at any one time was about 35 000. The new scheme will cover a maximum or 42 000 Army, Navy and Air Force cadets. Page 3 of the Millar report states: 
If the School Cadet system is beneficial-as it is widely claimed to be- it should desirably be available to pupils at all secondary schools. 
The new scheme will be available to pupils only in those schools which request it, and the maximum number of pupils who can apply to join the Army cadets is, from memory, 30 000. So there will be a decline of 5000 pupils from the outset in the Army cadet units. Another part of the report shows the value, in military terms, of cadet training. The report states at page 9: 
We would estimate that, for all but a few cadets, the level of achievement reached at the end of their Cadet experience is at about the standard reached in 2-3 weeks of full-time training in a Regular Army recruit training system. 
We are not going to get much more in the way of military skills out of the new scheme than we got out of the old one. One of the big arguments used in favour of the Army cadet units is their military value. The Millar report states that the Army cadet experience is worth two to three weeks of military training. 
-That is stated in paragraph 3.2 on page 9 of the report. Paragraph 3.12 on page 1 1 of the report states: 
It is evident that the military value of Cadets is small and does not of itself justify the present annual allocation of funds and Regular Army manpower - . . . Nevertheless, it is very clear that the funds spent on Cadets could be spent in ways which would add more to Australia's present defence capacity. 
The old scheme was costing about $12m; the new scheme is estimated to cost $7. 6m. The Government, in these days when it is continually crying about economic restraint, is prepared to outlay $7.6m to implement a pet policy without taking into account the value of doing so. I wish I had time to quote from a Youth Say report titled 'The recreational priorities of Australian young people' which was submitted to the former Department of Tourism and Recreation following consultation with more than 12 000 young people of Australia. The results of that survey, which went into the heart of the communityyoung people in various socio-economic groups and in various areas- suggest that uniformed groups rate the lowest in relation to the recreational requirements and desires of young people between 12 and 17 years of age. The report indicates that youth workers also say that uniformed groups have the lowest priority. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in redeveloping the Townsville Airport to international standards. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What wouild be the individual and total costs involved in implementing the following requests submitted for consideration by the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association of Australia. 
The special rate pension be increased to conformity with and not below the Commonwealth minimum wage; 
The means test limit of $838 be increased to $2,000 for married men and from $410 to $1,000 for single men; 
The wife's allowance be increased from $8.10 to $16.20 per fortnight; 
The funeral benefit be raised from $100 to $250 and paid to the next of kin of all totally and permanently incapacitated persons irrespective of marital status and irrespective of the cause of death; and 
The clothing allowance be raised by 100 per cent for the lower rate from $1.10 to $2.20 per fortnight and for the higher rate from $ 1 .60 to $3.20 per fortnight. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number and location of the major (a) museums and (b) art galleries in (i) each State and (ii) the Territories. 
What is the estimated number of visitors per annum to each (a) museum and (b) art gallery. 
What is the annual subsidy paid to each (a) museum and (b) art gallery by (i) each State and (ii) the Australian Governments. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What is the estimated number of spectators who attend both senior and junior (a) amateur and (b) professional sporting events (excluding horse and greyhound racing) each week-end in (i) each of the States and (ii) Australia. 
) What revenue is collected per annum by Governments in (a) each of the States and (b) Australia in taxes paid by such spectators. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the numbers of spectators who attend each week (a) galloping, (b) trotting and (c) greyhound fixtures in (i) each of the States and (ii) Australia. 
What revenue is collected per annum by Governments in (a) each of the States and (b) Australia from (i) galloping, (ii) trotting and (iii) greyhound fixtures. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
How many seniors and juniors participate in organised competitive sport each week-end in (a) amateur and (b) professional sports in (i) each of the States and (ii ) Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many applicants for assistance under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, whose eligibility has been approved from 1 January 1976, are still awaiting payment. 
Is the delay in payment due to staff reductions in the Public Service. 
If the delays are due to staff shortages, does this fact conflict with the statement attributed to the Prime Minister published in the  Financial Review  of 26 April 1976, that Public Service reductions had not caused any deterioration or lack of efficiency in Departments. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
How many registered (a) amateur and (b) professional sporting organisations exist in (i) each of the States and (ii) Australia. 
) What are the titles and registered numbers (senior and juniors) of each of the sporting organisations in (a), (b), (i) and (ii) of part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many private business colleges are receiving a subsidy for students under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, and how many have had applications for subsidy rejected. 
What are the (a) names of, (b) locations of, and (c) amounts received by the approved colleges. 
What are the (a) names and (b) locations of the rejected colleges. 
What are the criteria applied in considering applications. 
5 ) What is the future of the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What were the current staff ceilings, establishment strengths and numbers of operative and inoperative second and third division staff in the Public Service Board, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and Treasury (excluding Taxation) on 31 October 1975 and 30 April 1976. 
How many unattached second and third division officers are currently on duty with but not on the establishment of the Public Service Board, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Treasury (excluding Taxation). 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number and location of the major sporting grounds in (a) each State and (b) the Territories. 
) What is the estimated number of spectators per annum at each of these sporting grounds. 
What is the annual subsidy paid to each sporting ground by (a) each State and (b) the Australian Governments. 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of the grave discontent in the Lebanese community in Australia arising from the lack of firm guidelines for the entry into Australia of relatives and friends who have had to flee the Lebanon because of the conflict in that country? Is he also aware of the accusations and complaints of favouritism towards certain sponsors, the long delays in processing applications, the heavy expense involved in maintaining applicants outside the Lebanon and inconsistency in granting approval for entry into Australia? If not, will he, firstly, undertake an immediate investigation to ascertain whether the accusations and complaints are true or false and, secondly, make an early and comprehensive statement to the House on the matter? 
-This is the fourth economic statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  this year. The others were made on 4 March 1976, 25 March 1976, and the one that will always be remembered, that made on 20 May 1976. 1 leave aside the callous, uncoordinated, across the board, drastic cuts in government expenditure announced on 22 January before Parliament had even assembled. That first operation by the Treasurer, when he took his scalpel and slashed indiscriminately, reminded me of an operating scene in the television series  M.A.S.H.-&amp;  great deal of noise and activity with little prospect of a successful operation. I ask: How many of those initial decisions made in haste and hatred stand unaltered today? Not very many at all. But that is a quite expected result. Decisions guided by hatred and vindictiveness can never achieve a desirable and sustained effect. Many of the economic decisions of this Government have been deliberately designed to decimate the much overdue social reforms introduced by the Labor Government. The welfare of the country and its people have been placed second to the personal spleen of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and many of his Ministers and advisers. In the short space of 9 months the social reform programs in Australia have been returned to the unsympathetic, neglectful days between 1949 and 1972. 
The Budget Speech is supposed to be a major economic statement of any government. This one will go down as a rehash of the narrowminded, outmoded economic strategy first announced by the Treasurer in this House on 4 March, repeated on 25 March and again on 20 May 1976. In the general comments made by the Treasurer in all those speeches the only change in structure is his new phrase: 'Double digit or single digit inflation'. I take that to mean above or below 10 per cent. 
I want to take the House back to the economic climate operating in December 1972 when Labor was elected. Inflation was already on the move. Unemployment was rising. Prices and wages had commenced to gallop. Foreign capital was, and had been, entering Australia unchecked and uncontrolled. Exploitation in land, home, industrial and office development was rampant. Private enterprise had only just started to accept the fact that the golden years of  laissezfaire  capitalism had come to a halt but it had not then and still has not now any solutions. When Labor was elected in 1972 it inherited a time bomb. We were faced with the alternative of inflicting a drastic credit squeeze in our first Budget or going ahead and introducing some of the social reforms and innovative, imaginative programs which had been endorsed by the people in December 1972. So we went ahead to honour our promises. We anticipated the full support and co-operation of the public, business and the media, but that, unfortunately, was very short lived. Some say that our policies were introduced too quickly, too extravagantly. But now that our programs have been curtailed, cancelled or handed over to the States for funding by the States, the people are complaining about this Government's shortsightedness in not recognising the merits of many of our reforms. Some of those people now complaining are the same people who complained of our haste and extravagance. I merely state that those programs would never have been introduced by any antiLabor, capitalistic government. We stand by most of the programs we introduced. They were long overdue. Their reintroduction and/or continuation will only be assured by the return of a Labor government at the next election. 
Over the past few days I have taken the trouble to study again the 4 statements made by the Treasurer to thus House since March. Predictions on improvements in the economy are as far astray in most instances as any made by a Labor Treasurer between 1973 and 1975. The Treasurer's assessments of economic indicators have been proven wrong time and time again. On page 4 of his Budget Speech the Treasurer mentioned 2 key questions for a fully assured foundation for recovery. The first of those questions is related to the need for the main components of private demand- consumption and business investment to co-operate in building a continuing recovery. The second question is related to the extent to which the growth in demand will be met from imports rather than from local production and local jobs. In other words, the public is asked to spend more freely from their record savings, and private enterprise is asked to invest in new plant and equipment, to increase production and job opportunities, and to concentrate on exporting rather than importing. 
In all his speeches the Treasurer has stressed those 2 factors, but his pleas have fallen on barren ground. Savings are not declining to any great extent, as the Treasurer claims they are, and business is not expanding rapidly enough. The figures shown on page 1 1 of Statement No. 1 of the Budget Papers indicate that the proportion of savings to household disposable income in the June quarter 1976 was 13.1 per cent, that in the June quarter 1975 it was 14.9 per cent, and that in the June quarter 1974 it was 14.8 per cent, a decrease when compared with the same quarter last year of only 1.8 per cent and of 1.7 per cent when compared with the figures of 2 years ago. If we look at some of the other monetary indicators I take these figures from the Treasury publication  Round-up of Economic Statistics No. 43, August 1976-  we find that major trading bank deposits rose by $950m in June. A good deal of that must be business and private savings. New and increased lending decreased in May- June compared with April by $2 lm. I suggest that that means less new money for consumer spending and development. Subscriptions to the July loan totalled a record of $725m, and $407m of that figure came from the non-bank sector, which again indicates greater householder savings. 
The position on consumer spending, therefore, appears to me not to be as encouraging as the Treasurer tries to make out. In any case, a decrease in savings of 1.8 per cent compared with 12 months ago is rather grasping at a straw. Motor car sales and industrial production figures also give the lie to the Treasurer's assessment that consumer spending is on the increase. I agree that greater consumption spending is an essential in combating inflation but I am yet to hear any suggestions from any source which will encourage the populace to spend more freely unless this Government is prepared to make greater use of the public sector to re-engender the necessary confidence. We cannot allow our employment situation to continue to worsen, our building industry to continue to lag, our productivity to operate below capacity and imports to flood into the country, and expect either the community or industry to make the first move to rebuild confidence in the future of our nation. This Government is placing too much reliance on private enterprise to do a job which, from the middle of the 1 960s, it was unable to handle. 
My 3 years experience as Minister assisting the Treasurer has convinced me that private enterprise reacts much too quickly and much too fearfully to changes in economic circumstances. It has confidence in itself and the country only when things are going smoothly. It retreats to its funkholes and calls on the government to grant incentives, taxation concessions, depreciation allowances and various other types of assistance when competition, either domestically or from overseas, becomes a little intense. The Treasurer admits as much in his Budget Speech when he says: 
Businessmen will emerge further from their shell-holes and start buying plant, equipment and new buildings, restocking and taking on new workers only if the uncertainty wrought by runaway inflation can be removed from their calculations and profits again begin to represent a reasonable rate of return. 
I just cannot swallow the repeated assertions that all the troubles in our economy are a direct result of the election of a Labor government in December 1972. Manufacturing industry had began to run into trouble in the middle 1960s when our domestic market was not large enough to accommodate our production. Industry was too fragmented and restructuring of some industries had become essential but nothing was done by the previous Liberal Country Party government. It was in the middle 1960s when businessmen started to go into their funkholes not their shell-holes, as the Treasurer said. 
Secondary industry lost confidence about that time and still has not regained it. Businessmen want profits. To get them, they must take risks. If businessmen require a guarantee of no inflation and higher profits before they take initiatives this country will continue to face its present situation for a far greater number of years. I do not mean that private enterprise has to run all the risks; government must play its part. I do not think this Budget contains sufficient evidence of goodwill or confidence by this Government. The 2 questions posed by the Treasurer are no doubt the crux of the solution of our inflationary problems. Our people must be encouraged to spend more and to produce more. Our industries will need to lower costs by using more efficient plant and machinery and to seek export markets. In the meantime, this Government must regenerate the public sector, particulary in the building industry. One suggestion of assistance to the private sector I make is that there should be introduced an improved form of export incentives, particularly for manufactured items which previously had not been in the export arena. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was making a suggestion that I felt might stimulate the private sector of the community and that was the introduction of a form of export incentives with emphasis on the export of manufactured items which previously have not been in the export arena. I am unable to list the manufactured goods which have some prospect for export. Businessmen and others to whom I have spoken on this matter have been unable to make many constructive suggestions. Therefore, I suggest that a task force be appointed to assess the export potential of our industries to recommend an improved export incentive scheme as a matter of urgency. 
I summerise my approach to this the first and last Lynch budget in this way: Public sector spending has been too drastically and haphazardously reduced. Incentives to industry are incorrectly directed. Pleas to the consumer and industry to increase spending and production will not have any real effect unless the Government itself demonstrates that it has confidence in Australia's future by definite and sustained action to reduce unemployment, to increase production, to maintain industrial peace and to provide firm guidelines on future policy towards primary, secondary and the mining industries. Prayers and pious exhortations do not make for good government, and that is all this Budget has going for it. It will fail. 
There are many specific areas in this Budget which require detailed criticism, but I will keep my comments until the debate on the Estimates. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam)  reads: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates Federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants, and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence'. 
That amendment summarises the Labor Party approach to this Budget. I support the amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will he check with the Minister for Administrative Services whether it is proposed to demolish an historic Japanese style home owned by Australia in Tokyo and to replace it with a t6-unit apartment house for the use of Tokyo based staff mainly from his Department? Will he also check whether instructions have been issued to expedite the demolition and preparatory work to circumvent new building and zoning regulations which are to come into operation in Tokyo next year, whether the Japanese Government has been advised of Australia's intentions and whether the cost of each unit on 1 974 estimates is in excess of $250,000? Will he ensure that our relations with Japan will not be jeopardised by any action on our part to circumvent local regulations? Will he ascertain whether this extravagance can be justified in the present economic climate in Australia? 
-My electorate of Lang happens to be one of those with a number of people who came from Lebanon residing within its boundaries and for the past few months, because of the conflict- perhaps one should say the civil war- that is raging in that country, I have had a great number of those people coming into my office asking for assistance to get some of their immediate family, other relatives and friends out to Australia. I use the usual course of representation by first trying through the Sydney office. Then, not having a great deal of success, trying through the Central Office and, still not having any success, trying through the office of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  On 19 July I sent this telegram to the Minister: 
Am being inundated by Lebanese nationals desiring to bring to Australia relatives residing outside the Lebanon. 
Would be pleased if you would give me immediately the current position on (1) policy guidelines, (2) procedure being adopted in Australia and (3) procedure being adopted overseas for processing of applications. Are we dealing with these applications as sympathetically and expeditiously as possible? 
I received virtually an immediate acknowledgment of that telegram but that was about all. I sent a further telegram a few days later on 28 July in which I made my request more general by saying: 
Extremely dissatisfied with delay involved in processing applications for entry to Australia. Dissatisfaction directed mainly towards applicants ex Lebanon. Unable to obtain any definite information on progress of cases. Would appreciate immediate review of procedure for dealing with Ministerial representations. 
Still having received no reply, on 6 August I wrote to the Minister. I must admit that I received a reply from him dated 6 August answering my 2 telegrams. The letters perhaps crossed in the mail. However, I still am not satisfied with the procedures that are being adopted with people who have left the Lebanon to go to other countries and are now trying to come to Australia. They are all being sponsored by relatives, in most instances immediate relatives, in Australia. I want to give a couple of examples of events which I think demonstrate either a lack of administrative ability in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or a lack of sympathy for and understanding of those people who have had to flee their own country. 
One case involved a wife and 4 children. They were nominated by the husband on 25 May 1976. A cable of approval was sent to an overseas post in 16 June 1976. The husband then travelled to Lebanon to get his family out to another country. He was told by our officials in that country that they had received no advice from Australia regarding his family. On 25 August my advice was that he was still being told that no information had been received at our overseas post. I have confirmed with the Department in Sydney that the cable was sent to the overseas post on 1 6 June. Another case involved 4 children ranging in age from 18 years down to 12 years. The application for the eldest child was approved by letter from Canberra on 26 January. The applications for the three other children were approved by letter on 18 March. A cable of approval was sent to Cyprus on 20 August. Up to 30 August, the children, who are alone in that country, had been told on 2 occasions that our authorities in that country had no knowledge of the matter. 
-Last Thursday night I raised the topic of Government policy, or lack of policy, on migrants from the Lebanon. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  replied to me the same evening. I want to talk about the Minister's reply. But before doing so I want to make it widely known and clearly understood that I am not taking sides in the conflict in the Lebanon. I have no intention, nor have I ever had any intention, of importing the domestic conflicts of any other country to Australia. I have no intention at any time of allowing into this country people who cannot fit in with our way of life. But I do feel in this instance that the Government has shown a lack of appreciation and a lack of sympathy for some of" the people who have had to flee from the Lebanon. I want to make it known that any Lebanese who comes here on hardship grounds or because he has relatives in Australia should clearly understand that he had to leave his hatreds behind. If he does not- if he starts the same disagreements in Australia that apply in the Lebanon at the moment- I will be the first to say that he should be deported. I do not think that Australia can afford to be swamped only by migrants from the Lebanon. 
I come back to what the Minister said in his reply to me last Thursday. He talked about a letter that he sent to me on 6 August and said that I had not quoted that letter. The letter was hardly worth quoting, except for one paragraph, because it did not lay down the guidelines of the policy being followed by this Government. The Minister said that enclosed with the letter were certain Press statements that he had made. Those Press statements were never enclosed. I had to ring the Minister's office in order to get them. When the Press statements arrived they were copies of Press statements that I already had and they said nothing about the policy. 
I want to bring to the attention of the House a paragraph in the letter that the Minister mentioned. I feel that it epitomises the approach of this Government to the problems not only of Lebanese migrants but also of migrants from various other countries. The letter reads: 
During this same period- 
I interpolate to say that the period referred to is between 29 March 1976 and 6 August 1976- more than 700 visas have been issued to Lebanese people who found themselves in these circumstances and it is estimated that about 70 per cent of these are the spouses and dependant children of residents of Australia. By way of comparison I might add that fewer than 20 victims of the Italian earthquake have been granted visas. This results primarily from the attitude of these people in wanting to stay in their own region to rebuild their towns and their lives. 
The comparison of an earthquake with a continuing, long-standing conflict in the Lebanon seems to me to be a very odious comparison. I ask: Does this Government intend to do anything about the people who have had to flee from the Lebanon? Will this Government say who is entitled to come to Australia, what qualifications are required and what are regarded as being hardship grounds? Undoubtedly a number of these people are trying to get into Australia because they feel that they would be better off here, despite the type of Government we have; but at the same time there are many there who are suffering hardship. There are family reunions that can be made at this stage. I stress again that I would like to know what is the Government 's policy. 
-Again we have before the Parliament legislation dealing with a national health system. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I want to make a firm protest about the way in which these very important Bills have been dealt with in this House. In the first place, the debate is being held on a Wednesday, when there is no broadcasting from this chamber. There has been more contention about the new Medibank than about any other item of legislation introduced by this Government. The Opposition has been allowed 3 speakers on 3 Bills, and I think that the way this Government is handling the affairs of the Parliament is a disgrace, particularly in relation to this issue, which is of such vital interest to the community. It is badly understood not only by the public but also by the members of this House. It is badly understood not only by the public but also by the State Premiers and State Ministers for Health, and that is the reason for the amendment now before the House. During the course of the discussions between the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the State governments in relation to the hospital agreements, this Government has made known to the States that it has no intention of altering the 50-50 cost sharing structure introduced by the Labor Party. 
At the Premiers Conference in June this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  went to no end of trouble to assure the Premiers that no veto would be imposed on the expenditure put up to the Commonwealth Government by the States. It was not until after the legislation had been introduced into this Parliament the other day that the State governments understood that the new Head 5 in Schedule 2 was to be included in the Bill. The States found this out by way of a telex message, and telegrams were sent by two or three States governments to the Prime Minister complaining that they had been double crossed. There were conversations with the Minister, and I understand that he has given an assurance that the 50-50 cost sharing hospital agreement will still apply. If one looks at the wording of Head 5 in Schedule 2, 1 doubt whether Head 5 could be interpreted other than in a way which gives the Minister the right to veto proposed budgets. 
I am not suggesting that the Minister himself will veto the budgets. He has given private assurances to certain State Ministers that that will not be done. But in view of the way in which this legislation has been handled in this Parliament, and within the Ministry and Cabinet, I am afraid that the Minister at the table is not strong enough to stand up to the one leader existing at the moment in this Parliament. The Liberal-Country Party Government has become a one-man band, and I feel a great deal of sympathy for the Minister at the table because he has been trodden on, he has been instructed, he has been abused. A lot of the legislation now before the Committee is not what the Minister or his Department would like to have seen. Because I understand that the Minister has given these private assurances, I ask that the veto contained in Head 5 of schedule 2 not be used by him now or in the future. It is impossible for the States to make any plans for the costing of their hospital administration unless they know that the Commonwealth Government is going to share those expenses on a 50-50 basis. At the moment the States are in a position where they do not know whether the whole of the budgeting costs they will put to the committee referred to in Head 4 and again in Head 5 will be agreed to by that committee or not. Even if those costs are agreed to by the committee, I should point out that the last few words in Head 5 states: ... it may authorise the Minister to approve further payments under the provision made in accordance with paragraph 4 where he is satisfied that circumstances justify those payments. 
On page 5 of his second reading speech the Minister stated: 
It is envisaged that the committees established to give effect to that head will comprise Commonwealth and State officials and that the budgets and variations to the budgets formulated by the committees will be subject to approval by the Commonwealth Minister for Health and the relevant State Minister. 
Under Head 5, 1 think the Minister is taking too much authority. Under Head 5, I think he has gone back on the word he gave to the State representatives. I am certain that under Head 5 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has gone back on the assurance he gave to the Premiers at the June Premiers Conference. 
I would be more likely to trust the Minister at the table than I would the Prime Minister. If I could resort to the vernacular, I would not trust our present Prime Minister out of sight on a dark night. The States are in the position where they do not know what interpretation will be placed on Head 5 of Schedule 2. Will 50 per cent of the budgeted costs be met by the Commonwealth or will the percentage be reduced? What will happen if during the period of the budget hospital operating costs rise excessively? At the moment inflation is running at something like 15 per cent. If that sort of rise occurs during the period of a proposed budget, will the States have to meet all the costs? Let me give just one example of the dilemma facing the States. In New South Wales the total expenditure on hospitals in 1964-65 was $100m, or $24 per capita. In 1974-75 the total expenditure on hospitals was $533.2m, or $1 1 1 per capita. The estimated expenditure for 1976-77 is over $800m. Can the State of New South Wales make arrangements to expend that $800m and be guaranteed that half the expenditure will be met by the Commonwealth on a direct 50-50 sharing basis? I ask the Minister to give a public assurance in this House, not only for the benefit of members of this Parliament but for the benefit of all State Premiers and State Ministers for Health, that the 50-50 cost sharing proposition under the hospitals agreement, which was introduced by the Labor Party when the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was Minister, will be maintained under this present Medibank scheme, which in the future might become known as Hunt's Horror or Fraser 's Folly. 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that his procrastination in making an announcement on the expansion or curtailment of the operations of the Australian Legal Aid Office is causing grave concern within the Legal Aid Office and amongst the legal fraternity? Is he also aware that the means test imposed by him on applicants for legal aid is so parsimonious that married pensioner couples owning their own home can be precluded from receiving legal aid? Will he give urgent consideration to increasing the income level to a more realistic amount and to making an announcement on the future of the Australian Legal Aid Office? 
-The Family Law Amendment Bill (No. 2), which is before the House, has this very simple title: 
To amend the  Family Law Act  1975. 
I want to deal with some aspects of the operations of the Family Court since it commenced early in 1976. On 25 May 1976 I asked the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  this question: 
Has he received any reports from any source on the behaviour of certain judges of the Family Law Court? Is it open talk in legal circles that some judes are refusing to accept evidence, delivering homilies, castigating persons - 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bo wen).  We have just listened to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I have been in the Parliament for 23 years now and sometimes I have had the pleasure of listening to him and at other times I have had the annoyance of listening to him. I find that sometimes he argues rationally and that other times he argues irrationally. Tonight he has both annoyed me and convinced me that he is arguing irrationally. 
In the second part of his speech, he talked about the authority of the  Speaker  of this Parliament. He forgot to remind the House that on 1 1 November this House passed a resolution. The  Speaker  of this House tried to get an audience with the Governor-General and it was refused. In the first part of his speech he talked about the Senate refusing Supply. At no stage up to the dismissal of the Labor Government had the Senate refused Supply. The Senate delayed Supply. 
-Of course the Senate did not refuse Supply. The Governor-General made a decision without the other half of this Parliament ever having that decision for or against passing Supply put before it. Is it any wonder that honourable members on this side of the chamber now move against the Senate. I move against it on a number of grounds. I so move because it has fundamentally been Labor policy for a number of years. I quote from the Australian Labor Party  Platform Constitution and Rules  as approved by the Thirty-First National Conference, Terrigal, 1975, which under the heading Constitutional Matters states in clause 2: 2.  (a) Amendment to the Australian Constitution- 
to clothe the Parliament of Australia with such plenary powers as are necessary and desirable to achieve international co-operation, national planning and the Party's economic and social objectives; 
to ensure that the House of Representatives and each State House of Parliament are composed of members directly elected on the principle of one vote one value; 
to abolish the Senate; and 
to synchronise elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
Since 1970 the Senate has been making inroads into the authority of this, the major House of Parliament in Australia. In 1970 we had the majority in the Senate. I do not suggest that we are not without our sins in the situation that has developed. 
When it came to 1972 and the first Labor Government for 23 years, the Senate started to usurp the authority of this House in a way that was undemocratic and unprincipalled and with improper motives. In 3 years the Senate demonstrated that it was prepared to be instructed by the then Leader of the Opposition in this House, contrary to the wishes of the elected Government represented in this House. There was no doubt in the world that from the time we were elected the Opposition's majority in the Senate was going to be used to frustrate the policies that had been approved by the people in December 1972. 
I shall not go into the details of what happened between December 1972 and December 1975 except to say that on numerous occasions items of legislation that had been passed by this, the elected House, were refused a passage by the Senate. After a period of only 1 5 months it became necessary for the Labor Government to seek a double dissolution. Even after the people of Australia had re-elected the Labor Government, the Senate, with the majority of members representing parties that were the minority in this House, continued to frustrate our legislation. Two non-Labor Premiers, contrary to tradition over the years, took the opportunity to replace 2 former Labor senators with non-Labor representatives. It was a definite, inspired and conspired attempt to give further numbers to non-Labor forces in the Senate. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was talking about the undemocratic, unprincipled and sometimes conspiratorial actions which the previous Opposition in the Senate took in an effort to frustrate the then Labor Administration. The previous Senate Opposition had forced an election in May 1974. It had forced the first Joint Sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament. That Joint Sitting was held in order to allow the Labor Government to have legislation passed through the Parliament. After the presentation of the Budget in August 1 975 the then Opposition in the Senate really adopted high powered frustrating tactics. It decided to delay the passing of Supply so that the whole of the administration of Australia would be curtailed because the then Government would run out of funds in certain areas. Instead of the Senate having a vote to decide whether the then 60 senators were of the opinion that Supply should not be allowed, the then Opposition in the Senate used a tactic merely to delay the passing of Supply. 
At no stage until after the dismissal of the former Government did the senators, who are representatives of the States, not representatives of any political party in the true sense of the term, have a vote to ascertain the opinion of the Senate on the question of the passing of Supply. Then, out of the blue, one man- a man who was not elected to his position and who, as far as I know, has never run in an election in his life; if he has run in any, he has not won any- made a decision to dismiss the duly elected Government of Australia which had faced the people in December 1972 and May 1974. The actions of the Senate had caused a constitutional crisis and one man made a decision to dismiss the duly elected Government. That decision, which was made by one man as a result of the frustrating and undemocratic tactics of the then Opposition in the Senate, is still causing disquiet and conflict in the community. 
The Opposition has moved an amendment which seeks a reduction in the appropriation for the Senate because the Opposition believes that what happened, particularly from the presentation of the Budget in 1975 until 1 1 November 1975, almost spelt the death knell of democracy in Australia. It is the policy of the Australian Labor Party to abolish the Senate. There is talk by the Government of holding a referendum either later this year or early next year. I ask that the Government consider making one of the questions in a referendum whether the people of Australia want the Senate to continue to operate. Honourable members will see from what I have said that my motto is: 'Sack the Senate '. 
-In these days of economic stringency when we hear so much from the Government about the need to curb expenses and have greater efficiency in the Public Service and in private industry I want to try to ensure that a large sum of money spent over the last 2 years into the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration is not wasted and that some of the recommendations made by that Royal Commission will be implemented and will be implemented as quickly as possible. Honourable members might recall that in June 1974 the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration was established. It was allowed to continue its work after the present Government was elected. 
The report was tabled in Parliament on 18 August. The report and attachments consist of 483 pages and the report contains 337 recommendations. There are also volumes 1 to 4 of appendices and the total report consists of 2261 pages. It is the first comprehensive inquiry into Australian Government administration that has been made for over 50 years. It was a costly inquiry and was long overdue. It has met with the general approval of the community and of the Australian Public Service.  White Collar,  which is the official journal of the New South Wales Branch of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association of the Commonwealth Public Service, in its August 1976 issue refers to the Royal Commission report and its notable recommendations in these terms: 
A number of important recommendations could be and should be implemented forthwith. The report should be seen as a serious attempt, following a lengthy inquiry, to come to grips with the problems besetting the APS, to remedy its failings and provide a blueprint for its future development. It is a document of substance which should provide the basis for all-round improvement in Australian Public Service. 
It is now up to the Federal Government to act upon the progressive recommendations of the report. To date, the Fraser Government, with its cheese-paring policies, its restrictions on service development and imposition of staff ceilings, has shown much more inclination to hamper and restrict the Australian Public Service. 
I suggest that as the public servants themselves consider that the report contains recommendations that are notable, progressive and capable of immediate implementation, something should be done about it We talk of efficiency. We talk of economy, so let us see the Government act fairly swiftly on this report. 
The report in recommendation 335 makes certain suggestions on how it should be dealt with by the Government. The report is well worth reading, although, as I said, it totals 226 1 pages. The bulk of it is devoted to consideration of methods of making the administration more responsible, more accountable, more flexible and more efficient. The report sees all this being achieved in 5 major ways. They are (a) forward Estimates; (b) delegation of authority from the co-ordinating authorities- Treasury, Public Service Board- to the departments; (c) delegations within departments as well as giving decision makers the scope to act entrepreneurially; (d) efficiency audits by the departments themselves and by the Auditor-General; (e) examination of such audits by a parliamentary committee on administrative efficiency. 
I am suggesting that this report should not be pigeonholed as the Vernon Report was pigeonholed in the Menzies days and as the Jackson Report seems to have been pigeonholed in present days. In an economic situation wherein it is necessary to have the most efficient Public Service possible and to have the money spent in the administration of that Service spent in the best possible way, this report should be taken into consideration by the Government immediately. 
I mentioned the recommendation of the Commission on procedure for implementing its report. It is set out in recommendation 337. It suggests that the Cabinet approve in principle the main recommendations of the report; that the attention of Ministers and departments be drawn to this direction which is one that the Cabinet would give; that the Prime Minister nominate a committee of Ministers presided over by a member of Cabinet to expedite the reforms; that the Prime Minister nominate a senior officer of departmental head status to act full time as executive officer of the ministerial committee; and that this officer be supported by a small secretariat in the department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The  report  goes on to recommend:  that the ministerial committee and its executive officer be authorised 
to establish working groups or task forces (not interdepartmental committees) to help the ministerial committee in matters involving a number of Ministers and departments. 
The time is close to 10.30 so I emphasise the fact that this report which has cost so much and has had 2 years spent in framing it, which has had outside advisers and inside advisers giving evidence to it, is much too worthy a report to be pigeonholed. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 1 8 February I shall report progress. 
Progress reported, 
-In the popularity stakes it would be safe to say that the Department of the Treasury would finish a bad last. The Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration makes mention of this in its report. For example, it is stated in chapter 11.3.12: 
It would be surprising if Treasury were a popular department. The task of drawing attention to the reality of constraints on what ministers, departments, parliamentarians and groups and individuals in the community would like to do or have done is not one which easily wins friends for those who perform it. Too much therefore should not be made of the frequency with which criticism of Treasury and its procedures recurred in statements made to the Commission. 
That is a left handed compliment. The report of the Royal Commission goes on to state further in chapter 11.3.13: 
However, some criticisms go much deeper and are directed at the whole style and authority of Treasury. In brief they express the belief that Treasury is too privileged, too powerful, and too prone to substitute its own judgments, its own values and its own priorities for those of other departments, ministers and the government itself. 
The report continues further with quite heavy criticism of Treasury and its officers. I have had the experience of being Minister assisting the Treasurer for 3 years during the reign of the Labor Government. I have heard all the criticisms about the Treasurer and the Treasury that have been ever been written or stated. I agree with some of them. But mostly, those criticisms that I do agree with are exaggerated. I have found most of the officers in Treasury to be capable, efficient and hard working and very pleasant company. I admit that some of them approached every request with a mind made up- do not confuse me with facts attitude. Others thought that the nature of the beast of being an officer in Treasury was to play the part of the abominable no-man. What I found over the 3 years in which I assisted the Treasurer was that if a department had prepared its case well and was prepared to argue it strongly, the Treasury officials were prepared to compromise. I found the same thing with the Treasurer in Cabinet discussions. 
It seems to me that there is one person in Treasury who is singled out for major criticism. I mention this man only because he is the one who is singled out. Other officers in Treasury have come in for a great deal of criticism, but the one who most of us have heard criticised is the  Deputy  Secretary, John Stone. I found him a most efficient officer; I found him an exceedingly hard worker; I found him strong-willed and determined; on occasions I found nun abrasive; but above all, I found him to be a man of opinion. He would express it and was always prepared to make a recommendation. I merely say that some of the critics of John Stone and other officers of the Treasury have never made and never will make a decision in the whole of their lives. I make these remarks because public servants generally do not have the right to defend themselves. I know that people in the Public Service could defend themselves much more efficiently and effectively than I have done in the case of John Stone. I place on record my pleasure and appreciation for the opportunity of working with the officers in Treasury. 
In the 3 Budgets I helped to frame while the Labor Government was in office, I was never satisfied with the procedures adopted either in the making up of the Estimates or in the formation of the Budget when it eventually came to Cabinet. Amongst other things, I found- these are only some of the criticisms I make- that there was too much haste in the preparation of the Estimates. The departments did not start producing anything to Treasury until March or even later. There was too much hit or miss in the departmental estimates. There was an overlapping of departmental activity. Pet policies quite often overrode priorities. The longer established and numerically stronger departments seemed to have an 'in '-some permanent heads having far greater influence than others in comparison with the importance of their department The ongoing expenditure of the policies being produced by the Minister and supported by the department was rarely taken into consideration to the extent necessary. Government priorities were not known to people in the Ministry or to decisionmakers in the Public Service. I am suggesting that the Budget Estimates and Budget formation must be very much improved. For that reason, I recommend as compulsory reading for all Ministers, departmental heads and senior public servants, chapter 3 and chapter 1 1 of the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. I do not suggest that this report has the right recommendations, but I suggest that chapter 3 and chapter 1 1 at least demand immediate consideration by the officers and the Ministers in government at the moment. I feel that it is a pity that the Labor Government did not have this report before it prior to the whole 3 of its Budgets. Chapter 3 is headed 'The Efficient Use of Resources'. Chapter 11 is headed 'Co-ordination and Control'. One recommendation in chapter 1 1 is that of giving independence to the Bureau of Statistics. This recommendation also forms part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  on behalf of the Opposition. Until such time as governments know how much they are going to spend, in which direction they are going to spend, I do not think we can expect the Treasurer or Treasury to be able to manage the finances of the country as well as they should be managed. 
I conclude with a quote again from the Royal Commission report which is directed at Treasury because I feel that it is the linen-pin between ail the departments and all the Ministers. Paragraph 11.3.14 states: 
The Treasury has much to gain if it can, by involving other ministers and their departmental advisers, achieve a wider sharing of responsibility and a weakening of the adversary relationship which frequently exists between them. 
-Prior to the 1975 election the then Liberal-National Country Party Opposition made great play about its tourism policy. At that time  Senator Rae  was the shadow Minister for Tourism. He went before various sectors of the community and the travel tourism industry saying what the government would do for tourism and travel within Australia. There is no need for me to remind you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that come the election at which the Labor Party Government was defeated,  Senator Rae  was sacked as shadow Minister for Tourism and the Department of Tourism and Recreation ceased to exist. It would take somebody who knows the workings of the Department of Industry and Commerce to appreciate that that Department is now charged with the responsibility of tourism in Australia. So the promises that were made prior to 1975 by  Senator Rae  for and on behalf of the present Government were immediately broken by this Government when it came into office. 
In order to demonstrate the complete hypocrisy of the Government on tourism we find that  Senator Robert  Cotton, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, has established a Government back bench committee on tourism. The senator issued a Press statement on 16 September in which he listed the personnel on that committee. Included on the committee is  Senator Peter  Rae. The Minister said that on the committee every State and both territories were represented, as were the coalition parties- the Liberal Party and National Country Party. 
To recap what happened prior to the 1975 election,  Senator Rae  went around the country saying what the Liberal and National Country Parties would do for tourism if they became the government.  Senator Rae  suffered the same fate as Don Chipp. He was sacked from his shadow portfolio and his place was filled by someone else. After the election all mention of tourism by this Government was taken out of ministerial portfolios and virtually from the Australian Government Directory. As I have said, very few people know that tourism is now covered by the Department of Industry and Commerce. 
I cannot say that I have a great deal of sympathy for the Australian National Travel Association because prior to the 1975 election the executive of the Association published a Press release saying that the Liberal and National Country Parties policy on tourism was better than that offered by the Labor Party Government at that time. Now we find that the Australian National Travel Association is complaining bitterly about the lack of mention of tourism in the policies followed by the present Government. 
One has to go to page 85 of the Budget Papers before one finds any mention of the tourist industry. On that page we find the allocation of the magnanimous amount of $3m to the Australian Tourist Commission for this year dropping down to $ 1.5 m next year providing that State governments and industry groups can match the Commonwealth 's contribution on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis up to $1.5m. The Canberra Tourist Bureau is to get $100,000-$0.1m. The Northern Australian Tourist Board is to get $500,000. Is it any wonder that the Australian National Travel Association is now complaining?  Mr Graham  Tucker, the Executive Director of the Australian National Travel Association, as far back as 24 May 1976 wrote a letter in which he said: 
This year, the number of Australians going abroad will almost certainly exceed one million. Their spendings will exceed $S00m, making overseas travel one of the biggest single drains on the country's Balance of Payments. 
Visitors from overseas, on the other hand, are expected to be almost at a standstill, some 550000 people, spending approximately $250m in Australia. 

 Mr Leslie M. Perrott, the then National  Chairman  of the Australian National Travel Association, whom I am certain some Liberal members from Victoria will know because of his association with the Liberal Party, said in a Press statement on 25 May: 
Rather than cutting back on the funds of the Australian Tourist Commission, the Government should be increasing its allocation both in the interests of boosting its balance of payments- outgoing spendings by Australian travellers of $500m against incoming spendings of $250m by overseas visitors- and also in the interests of stimulating the domestic recovery in one of the major employment industries in the country. 
The travel tourist industry is an industry. I put a question on notice to the Minister earlier this year. I have received a reply to my question. I seek leave to incorporate the question and the reply in  Hansard. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce: 
1 ) What is the estimated amount per annum generated by the Australian travel/tourist industry. 
What percentage of the Gross National Product does this represent. 
What percentage of the workforce is employed in the travel/tourist industry and how much of this is female labour. 
How much in foreign exchange is earned by the travel /tourist industry. 
What is the estimated amount per annum spent by Australians travelling outside Australia. 
Does the Government intend to offer any incentives to the Australian tourist industry; if so, what form will these take. 

 Mr HOWARD: My colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, has supplied me with the following information- 
1 ) The Australian Statistician advises that expenditure on travel or tourism in Australia is expenditure on the products of several industries, but only on part of their products. These industries include restaurants, hotels and accommodation, transport, and travel agencies. Official estimates of the products of these industries going into expenditure on travel and tourism are therefore not made. However, a survey of domestic travel conducted by the Australian Travel Research Conference estimated that, in 1973-74, Australians spent $736m on travel within Australia. In addition, overseas visitors spent $ 1 62m making a total of $898m spent on travel within Australia. There is evidence to believe that the domestic component of this estimate considerably underestimates the value of domestic travel expenditure, as the survey on which it was based relied on the respondents' abilities to recall travel undertaken over a considerable period. 
The estimated $898m spent on travel within Australia in 1 973-74 represents 1 .77 per cent of Gross Domestic Product for that year. This figure under-estimates the contribution of the tourist industry to Gross Domestic Product, because of the under-estimation in domestic tourism expenditure and because no estimate in available of gross fixed capital expenditure in the industry. 
Because of the reasons outlined in my answer to the first part of the question no official estimates are made of the workforce employed in the travel/tourist industry. However, the official estimate at 3 1 December 1 975 of wage and salary earners in the entertainment, recreation, restaurants, hotels and personal services industry was 5.8 per cent of total civilian employees- 60 per cent of this category were females. 
Estimates of expenditure by foreign visitors, or travel credits, are shown in Table 1. 

<graphic href="101131197610063_59_12.jpg"></graphic>

Estimates  or  expenditure by Australian residents travelling overseas (travel debits), from 1970-71 to 1974-75 are shown in Table 2. 

<graphic href="101131197610063_59_13.jpg"></graphic>

Since the election in December 1975 the Government has introduced a number of measures which will assist the tourist industry. These include 
A 40 per cent investment allowance available for eligible tourist plant and equipment on site or ready for installation from 1 January 1976 and up to 30 June 1978. 
Restrictions on the tax deductibility of interest received from convertible secured debentures have been eased as from 1 January 1976. 
The suspension of quarterly payments of company tax. 
-The answer indicates that our trade debits and credits- that is, the outgoings as against the incomings- showed a deficit or a travel gap of $64m in 1970-71, $133m in 1971-72, $ 198m in 1972-73, $ 179m in 1973-74, $192m in 1974-75 and $292m in 1975-76. This industry covers 1.7 per cent of the gross domestic product. As at the end of December 1975 the travel-tourist industry employed 5.8 per cent of total civilian employees, and 60 per cent of those employees were females. The industry is a decentralised, smokeless industry. It takes Australians into the outer reaches of Australia to our tourist attractions. It allows people who live in coastal or inland areas which have tourist attractions to open an industry which is smokeless and to offer job opportunities to the people in the area. 
The Australian National Travel Association and the travel industry generally are similar to the manufacturing industries referred to earlier by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  They wanted handouts from the Government. They did not want policies of their own; they could not produce policies of their own. Prior to the 1975 election the present Government said that it would do better for the travel-tourist industry than the Labor Government had done between 1972 and 1975. 1 remind the Committee that that Labor Government was the first Commonwealth Government in Australia's history ever to have a Minister for Tourism and Recreation. I mentioned before that Australians going overseas spend $500m and that visitors coming to Australia spend less than half that amount. We are losing money on our travellers going overseas, and it was in an effort to curb that travel gap, to reduce it or keep it at a reasonable level, that the Labor Government, in co-operation with every State Minister and every State tourist department, introduced domestic tourism promotion. That was cancelled. We introduced a low cost accommodation subsidy. That was cancelled. On behalf of the Labor Government, I put legislation through this House providing for the uniform registration of travel agents throughout Australia. This Government has not even reintroduced that Bill. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the study of man-made tourist attractions, outdoor museums and historic sites in Australia commissioned by the previous Government been completed. 
If so, will the Minister make a copy of the Report available to me. 
Is the report to be released and /or tabled; if not, why not. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Did the communique he signed with 

 President Suharto at the conclusion of his visit to Indonesia state that the absence of great power rivalry in South East Asia is a specially desirable objective for the maintenance of peace and stability in the area? If so, why did he fail to agree to the proposal which was supported by Indonesia that the Indian Ocean be declared a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality? 
I wish to draw a matter to the notice of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott).  On 28 September 1976 a young widow whose husband had been killed in a motor accident on 6 September 197S came to me and told me her story. Shortly after the death of her husband, she placed the matter of the estate in the hands of the branch office of a solicitor at Pendle Hill.  Her  late husband had died intestate. Since placing the matter in the hands of the solicitor, the widow has received 3 lettersone dated 24 November 1975, another one dated 26 November 1975 and a third one dated 1 7 December 1 975. Despite frequent phone calls from her, no further action has been taken. On 1 8 August this year the widow wrote to the solicitor and said: 
As this matter is now causing me considerable mental strain and frustration, I would be very pleased if you would let me know quickly if the matter is reaching finality. If no action has been taken, would I be better served if I was to relieve you of this responsibility by engaging someone else who may not be as busy. 
She received no reply to that letter. So she then went to another solicitor. He wrote to the offending solicitor on 16 September 1976 by certified mail. He had received no reply by 28 September. He reported to the widow as follows: 
I confirm telephoning L. B. Clayton &amp; Co., Solicitors, of Wentworthville,  Mrs Claffey,  on the 28th instant and asking when could I receive the estate papers. She commented that she had not got around to it and made no assurances as to when she would.  Mrs Claffey  also stated that she had to prepare her statement of costs and fees owing to the firm for work done on your behalf. 
The widow came to me on the same day. On that same day I rang  Mr Clayton  at his Auburn office. 
He had no file with him. He promised he would make inquiries and ring back. I waited until Friday, 1 October, but had no contact from him up to that stage. So I rang him. He told me that the papers would be sent to the new solicitor next week. 
I contacted the new solicitor on Monday, the 11th, and I contacted him again today. Still no papers have been received by me. The widow is reporting the matter to the Law Society. I raise the subject here to emphasise that I, as well as the client, are far from satisfied with the handling of this matter by L. B. Clayton and Co., solicitors, of Auburn and Pendle Hill. I wonder how many solicitors throughout the country are neglecting their clients' matters as much as this company has done. 
-Until the last 3 or 4 minutes of the speech of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  I thought that he was approaching this topic in the way it should have been approached. We are talking about a human problem. The very fact that the Minister gets a few letters from leaders of the Lebanese community in Australia does not indicate that what this Government has done meets with the approval of those people in my electorate, in the electorate of Grayndler, in the electorate of Melbourne or in other electorates that are represented by Labor members. With regard to the opinions expressed by the leaders of those organisations who, I dare suggest, are absolutely right-wing controlled, they do not see those people the way we see them in our offices. In our offices we would see more ordinary Lebanese in a week than they would see in a month. 
The Minister, in his approach at the beginning of his speech, was subdued. It was an indication that he, as an individual, had recognised that the Government had failed to measure up to the efficient standards that Australian administration generally holds. I am not blaming any of the  officers in our overseas posts. There were too few of them to handle the task that was imposed upon them. The Government was too slow to react to the situation that had developed in the Lebanon. The Minister suggests that when the office in Beirut was closed and an operation was opened in Damascus, the Government believed that the conflict in the Lebanon was only going to be short-term. 
-Then on the basis of hope, the Minister put in a temporary operation in Damascus and advised all members of this Parliament on 1 April that that office was open. We advised our constituents that if they could get their relatives to leave the Lebanon and travel to Damascus their applications would be processed. We told our constituents exactly what had been told to us. Between 1 April and 25 June- I suggest that was the date the office was closed; the Minister made his statement on 26 Junehundreds of Lebanese relatives had travelled to Damascus. They were being bled dry with food and accommodation costs. Then on 25-26 June the Syrian office was closed. We then had to tell our constituents that it was no good going to Damascus; that they would now need to go to Nicosia. 
The change in policy at that stage took even the Minister's own office by surprise. I can produce several examples but there is one in particular. I refer to a letter signed by the Acting Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on 1 July which came to my office informing me to advise the sponsors that if their relatives went to Damascus their applications could be processed. My staff rang the Minister's office on 6 July, 20 July and 4 August asking for an amendment to that letter so that we could advise the constituents correctly. An amended letter finally arrived dated 26 August. The changes in policy made by this Government have been too slow; they have been imprecise; and they have not been firm. 
I appreciated the subdued approach that the Minister took in this matter. I took his subdued approach as a recognition that he had suddenly decided that it was necessary for Australia to do more for the people who had escaped from Lebanon than had been done. Again I say I am not blaming the small numbers of staff who had to operate in some of these countries. 
Why is it that we cannot make arrangements to have an operation, temporary perhaps, opened again in Damascus while the negotiations for the opening of an embassy in Syria still continue? In Damascus there is a similarity of language. More Lebanese nationals are in that country. There is easier access from the Lebanon to Damascus. The people escaping from Damascus may be able to pick up accommodation with some of their Lebanese relatives or friends who are already in Syria. To travel to Nicosia costs a lot and is sometimes impossible. Now the Cyprus authorities are controlling the flow of Lebanese into that country. The honourable member for Melbourne said that Stg 100 would be needed to make that trip. Some of my constituents have told me directly that when the Lebanese got into Nicosia the cost of accommodation and the cost of food was almost sending them broke. They borrowed from their relatives and friends in Australia. They have borrowed from banks. They are putting themselves into a financial situation from which it will take years to extricate themselves. 
All the time members on the government side are saying that they are doing their best. We on this side of the House are saying that they have not done enough, they have not done it quickly enough and they have not been precise enough. It is a human situation. I suggest that the Government would not have reached the stage it has reached now had it not been for the fact that members of the Opposition had been continually harping on the topic. From my own personal point of view I wrote to the Minister earlier this year asking for guidelines. I had discussions with his senior officers and asked for inside information as to what I should tell the relatives of people in Lebanon who were coming into my office in droves- 50 to 100 people a weekwanting to bring out brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers and other relatives. I could get no definite guidelines. I was being led up the garden path. I finally brought the matter into this House on 24 August when I asked a question without notice. I made a speech in this House on 9 September. I made another speech in this House on 14 September. The honourable member for Melbourne asked a question. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  raised the matter. It was not until later that the Minister came down with what perhaps is a genuine, determined attempt to do something about the Lebanese refugee situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not mind listening to abstruse conjectural arguments but I remind the Committee that we are debating the estimates for the Department of Defence. Some of the speeches made here this afternoon would be more appropriate if we were discussing the White Paper which was promised in May this year on how this Government would spend $ 12,000m on defence in the next 5 years. I rather prefer to look at the record of Labor governments in matters of defence as compared with the record of Liberal-Country Party governments. I find that the general community believes, for some unknown reason, that the Australian Labor Party has never been interested in the subject of defence. I remind the Committee of what happened in the Second World War. A Liberal-Country Party Government, or should I say a United Australia Party-Country Party Government, was in power from 1939 to 1941 and for many years prior to that date. But in 1941 this House threw that Government out. Into power came a Labor Government. At that stage our defence forces were run down. Our defence equipment was run down. 
At the end of 1 94 1 when I went into the Army we were doing our drill with broomsticks. We had no rifles, no equipment and no technical knowhow. We had to get our young men into the Army at 1 8 years of age. The Labor Government conscripted them but it would not allow them to go out of Australian territories. During the Vietnam war a Liberal-National Country Party Government had to conscript our 1 8-year-olds to go to Vietnam. But between 1941 and 1 949 - it was in 1949 that the Labor Government was defeated- we waged a successful campaign. We brought our forces back from overseas- the Middle East and other places- so that we could defend our own shores. We went to the United 
States of America and asked it to help us to protect Australia. We knew that the war in the Pacific would be paramount in winning against Germany and Japan. We waged that successful campaign. Peace was declared. We had hundreds of thousands of men and women in our armed forces. We had them in war industries. We had to change those industries over and put them on a peacetime footing. We had to demobilise our forces and find jobs for the members. It was in those years that full employment was born in Australia. We reconstructed our industries. We set this country on a firm peacetime footing after having waged a successful campaign during the 1939-45 war. 
After 23 years of Liberal Government when we again came into power we found that our defence forces and equipment had again fallen away quite drastically. Between 1967-68 and 1974-75 the percentage of our total defence expenditure on capital equipment and facilities fell from 37 per cent to 1 3 per cent. That was due to the lack of decisions between 1949 and 1972 by the then Liberal Party Government. The only thing worth mentioning on defence in those years is the debacle of the Fl 1 1 aircraft. They were ordered about 10 years before they were delivered. They were ordered at a certain price and the price went so high that we paid as much for one aircraft as the Government of New South Wales paid for the Opera House. When we came into office in December 1972 we set about rectifying the years of neglect of the LiberalCountry Party Government from 1949 to 1972.  Mr Chairman,  I remind you that in buying defence equipment or capital equipment there ,are years of lead time in making decisions and in deciding what sort of equipment to buy. To verify my statement that the Liberal-Country Party Government of those years neglected our defence forces in relation to capital equipment I cite these figures. In 1968-69 $30m was allocated for equipment. In 1969-70 the amount was $53m. In 1970-71 $153m was spent. In 1971-72 the amount was $24m and in the last Budget of the Liberal-National Country Party Government, that is for 1972-73, $84m was spent making a total over those years of $344m. 
In 1973-74 the Labor Government allocated $96m for equipment. In 1974-75 $330m was set aside for equipment and in the 1 975-76 Budget on which this Government worked until August this year the amount was $290m. This makes a total in those 3 years of $7 1 6m. In other words, in the 3 Budgets for which the Labor Government was responsible we allocated more than twice the amount to equipment that the former 
Government did in its last 5 Budgets. A lot of the defence equipment which has been ordered or which is being delivered to Australia was ordered during those 3 years of Labor Government. Even the defence expenditure this year as a proportion of the gross domestic product in this Budget is about the same as it was in the last Budget of the Labor Party. That is a short history of the capital equipment and facilities. 
I turn to our attitude towards personnel in our armed forces. We implemented the Woodward report on pay and conditions. We adopted the Jess report *on defence retirement and death benefits. We introduced the automatic income adjustments for our defence forces in line with other Public Service pay movements. We established the Millar inquiry into the citizen forces and implemented the major recommendations. We reorganised and rationalised the Department of Defence, the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy and the Department of the Air Force into one department. We introduced the re-enlistment bounty. We extended repatriation benefits and defence service homes eligibility to members of our peacetime forces. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  talked about our lack of regard for our Service and ex-service personnel. I remind the Committee that in our 3 years of government expenditure on repatriation benefits increased by $40 1 m. Let me turn to the rate of re-engagement in our armed Forces. In 1971-72 the Navy had a rate of re-engagement of 44 per cent; at 30 June 1975 it was 70 per cent. The rate of re-engagement for the Army in 1971 -72 was 69 per cent; in 1975 it was 74 per cent. The Air Force rate of re-engagement in 1971-72 was 62 per cent and in 1 975 it was 82 per cent. 

 Mr GRAHAM (North Sydney)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many appeals have been lodged with the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in each State and Territory against departmental decisions (a) to terminate unemployment benefit payments and (b) not to pay unemployment benefit. 
What have been the grounds for the appeals in the cases of (a) and (b) of part (1) and how many have been upheld. 
Are applicants who have had benefits terminated or who have been rejected for payment of benefit advised they have the right to appeal to the Tribunal; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females are employed in the (i) manufacturing and (ii) retailing of sporting equipment and sporting clothes. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the amount of customs and import duties collected on (a) sporting equipment and (b) sporting clothes in each of the last S years. 
-Has the Prime Minister taken any action to stop the continual leak from Cabinet, ministerial offices and departments of confidential discussions, papers, letters and reports- the latest example being the Green report- or is this his style of open government? 
-This afternoon we have heard the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  talk about the faults of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. Both stressed the fact that we had too large a deficit. The honourable member for Berowra cited figures in his speech to show what happened in August this year compared to August last year and said that this was the comparison that had to be made. As there is so much stress in economic arguments about the deficit which was budgeted for by the Australian Labor Party, let us have a look at how the deficit of this Government is at present operating. In the 3 months to 30 September 1976, the deficit of this Government was $2,275.9m. For the same period 12 months ago, to 30 September 1975, the deficit was $ 1,887.3m. Any excuses that the honourable member for Berowra can give as to why the deficit of this Government is higher than the deficit of the Labor Government in 1975 hold no water. The real reason that the economy of Australia is not improving is because this Government does not know how to handle it. 
This is the fifth attempt at economic measures made by the Treasurer. The first was in January. There were two in March, one in May and the major one on 17 August. Let me remind the House of the words of the Treasurer in that Budget Speech. He said: 
When this Government was elected on 13 December last, Australia was in bad shape. 
Inflation was out of hand, economic activity was falling again and unemployment had risen to record levels. 
The Government immediately set about the enormous task of repairing the damage and restoring confidence. 
Recovery is no w getting under way. 
The private sector is growing again and confidence is gradually returning. 
This Budget will aid that recovery and rebuild the confidence further . . . 
It is a Budget for confidence; it is also a Budget for reform. 
But suddenly over the weekend the Treasurer came out with new economic measures that took most of the people by surprise. A special meeting of Cabinet was called on Friday because the Government did not know what to do or how to doit. 
Opposition members are not the only people in the community who are complaining about the economic mismanagement of this Government. Harsh and continuous criticisms are appearing every day from all types of organisations. They include the manufacturing industries, the building industry, the Australian Industries Development Association, the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers, banks and bankers, chambers of commerce, retailers, small businessmen, multi-national companies and the Premiers of the various States. In the 5 attempts to do something about recovering the economic situation in Australia, this Government has not succeeded at all. All of its ideas and all of the predictions of the Treasurer have become unstuck. Most sections of the community are either stagnant at the moment as they have been for the last 12 months or are experiencing conditions which continue to decline. It is no good this Government saying that it is what we did or did not do between December 1972 and November 1975 that created the economic situation that exists in Australia today. Between 1949 and 1972 Liberal-Country Party governments were in office. It was the  laissez-faire  private enterprise capitalist attitude taken by this present Government or its forerunners that allowed the economic situation to deteriorate to the extent that it did when we came into office. 
Honourable members opposite are all inclined to say that it is only the Opposition in this Parliament that is criticising the Government's economic policy. The Premier of New South Wales, after hearing of these announcements on Monday, said: 
The recession is now well into its third year and the current series of measures just doesn't give the stimulus necessary to get real recovery under way. 
He went on to say: 
We have got the highest unemployment on the mainland and our building industry, already hard hit, has been given another kick in the guts by the so-called economic measures. 
When we look at what has happened to our economy in the last 11 months m which this Government has been in office, we find that the number of new car registrations has decreased. They decreased alarmingly in August. They increased slightly in September. Unemployment is still increasing. Retail sales are running below price increases. Savings are still rising rapidly. There was $180m in savings accounts in July. The volume of money, broadly defined as M3 was increasing at the rate of 19 per cent in the 3 months to August. There is still a lack of confidence in the business community. 
I have quoted from the Treasurer's speech of 17 August in which he said that confidence was returning. Our balance of payments situation is declining. Factories are working below capacity. I correct the honourable member for Berowra and inform him that the rate of overtime being worked at the moment is declining, not increasing. Our personal taxation has been increased. Even the Australian Taxpayers' Federation is asking when this Government will keep the promises made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he was going to cut out the tax rip-off. The people of Australia cannot even see a ray of light in the economic inflationary tunnel, let alone see this Governmentthe Liberal-National Party Government- live up to its slogan that it would turn on the lights. These new measures will do nothing to increase productivity. The laughable announcement of the establishment of the Department of Productivity will do nothing either to increase productivity or to help the situation in Australia. This is band-aid, patchwork-quilt economic management. 
In the few moments left to me to speak I ask what effect the introduction of a Department of Productivity can have on increasing production in Australia when most factories are working under capacity- some as low as 60 per cent of capacity and others perhaps as high as 80 per cent. In this Government there are 4 Ministers concerned with business or industrial management. The first is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  who controls business practices, duties on customs and excise, and bounties on the production or export of goods. Then we have the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street). His  duties take in industrial relations including conciliation and arbitration in relation to industrial disputes, the Commonwealth Employment Service, and the reinstatement in civil employment of national servicemen, etc. The third Minister is none other than the Minister at the table, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  Some of his duties encompass the building industry and housing. 
-Last Sunday, 7 November, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced the establishment of the Department of Productivity and named as the new Minister for Productivity the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  I congratulate the new Minister on his appointment, but I offer my deepest commiserations to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  because he thought, as did most Government members and we on the Opposition side, that he would be the next member to be appointed to a House of Representatives vacancy in the Ministry. After all, honourable members will recall that he was appointed a Minister in the first Fraser Ministry but because of some activities of his during the election campaign he had to step down from that position. 
I wonder why this Department was formed. I wonder whether it is not a sop to the Employers Federation that was represented outside the Parliament by the honourable member for Balaclava. I do not want to raise only my own doubts on the desirability of the Department of Productivity. I want to quote from the  Australian Financial Review  of 9 November which, in its editorial headed 'The Department of Silly Walks', had this to say: 
There really is something absurd in any government creating a Department of Productivity. But it is almost too much that such a bureaucratic monster is spawned by the Fraser Government . . . 
Just where the idea of such a department came from remains something of a mystery. 
Rather it appears to be a case study in political ad hocery of throwing a sop to government supporters who are likely to be riled by the substantive policy decisions also announced at the weekend on a clampdown on credit. 
The very way in which the department has been thrown together reinforces this impression. 
I have studied the statement of the Prime Minister which was issued on 7 November, and it is a classic example of waffle and gobbledegook. Already there are 5 departments connected with industry- I regard primary industry as being part of industry -but in the whole of this 2-page Press release issued by the Prime Minister there is no mention at all of any primary industry activities being handed over to the Minister for Productivity and his new Department. The department which is vitally interested in manufacturing industry is the Department of Industry and Commerce. Again very little of its activities are being handed over to the new Department of Productivity. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  is responsible for the efficiency and development of manufacturing and tertiary industries and research relating thereto, adjustment assistance to industry, assistance to small business, manufacture of goods and provision of services. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is responsible for agricultural and pastoral industries, fisheries and forestry. 
If we are to have a Minister for Productivity, surely we should have a department that has some teeth. The new Minister also will handle two Minister-assisting portfolios. He will assist the Prime Minister in women 's affairs and he will assist the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I do not downgrade the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Whilst he is only small in stature, he carries a big whack in Cabinet. I can see the new Minister looking after women's affairs himself. I hope that they keep him busy, because he will not be kept very busy with productivity unless the 2 tasks are connected. With the new Minister having 2 Minister-assisting portfolios and a powerful Minister on top of him, and having to guarantee that he will carry out his duties as Minister - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many (a) non-government and (b) government schools have applied to (i) re-establish their cadet units and (ii) establish new cadet units. 
How many young men have enlisted in the units in (a) non-government and (b) government schools. 
How many (a) non-government and (b) government schools had Cadet units in each year from 1971 to date of disbandment. 
What was the number of cadets in units in (a) nongovernment and (b) government schools prior to disbandment. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister received any reports that medical practitioners in provincial cities in New South Wales, particularly in Orange, Dubbo, Mudgee, Cowra and Wagga Wagga, are either individually or in concert refusing to provide medical treatment to Medibank Standard patients, even to the extent of walking out of an operating theatre, harassing patients and inserting advertisements in newspapers? If so, what complaints has the Minister received? What action has he taken or does he intend to take to stop this despicable premeditated sabotage of Medibank? Does the fact that medical practitioners in country areas appear to be the main offenders add any urgency to the prohibition of such unethical conduct? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present position on the promised White Paper on defence. 
) When does he expect to present it to Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of women with children under 5 years of age are engaged in the work force. 
2 ) How many children are under 5 years of age. 
What percentage of these children have mothers in the work force. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the task force into health, welfare and communitybased programs sought submissions from all amateur and professional sporting organisations on the role of the Australian Government in the development of sport from the base to the peak of the sporting pyramid. 
If so, which organisations have forwarded submissions. 
Do these organisations recommend a re-introduction, with a few minor alterations, of the sports development program initiated by the former Labor Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Did Federal and State Tourist Ministers at a recent meeting of the Tourist Ministers ' Council express the conviction that Government investment in the Tourist Industry was sound and that such investment was essential if the current imbalance between outbound and inbound tourism was to be removed. 
) What is the present level of imbalance. 
What specific objectives based on economic, social and public interest concepts were agreed to by the Tourist Ministers ' Council. 
When will the Minister be able to announce details of Commonwealth financial assistance for the development and promotion of tourism into and within Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Australian Tourist Commission predict and increase in overseas travel by Americans during the next 12 months. 
If so, does the Commission intend to increase its promotional spending in the U.S.A. to ensure that Australia attracts a larger number of high spending American visitors. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Can he deny that he is planning a re-organisation of the Ministry which will include the dismissal of some Ministers, the appointment of replacements and a re-allocation of portfolios? If not, when does he intend to make his announcement? 
-On 18 November, 30 November and 1 December I presented to the House of Representatives petitions which read: 
That, pending the increase or redistribution of funds in a more equitable manner as per section5.6 of the Report of the Australian Schools Commission 1977-79, emergency interim Australian Government financial assistance be offered to those NSW Catholic schools, with large numbers of students of migrant background, that had anticipated assistance for 1977 as per precedents established in previous years. 
The signatures had been organised by the Parents and Friends Association and the Mothers Auxiliary of St John's College, Lakemba, which is in my electorate of Lang, at the request of Rev. Brother Luke, the headmaster of that college. Brother Luke had become alarmed at a reduction in funds from the Catholic Education Office in Sydney, which meant a reduction in English as second-language teachers at St John 's from three to two. 
As well as organising the petitions which I presented- they contained thousands of signaturesBrother Luke wrote to me on 23 November detailing the problems being faced at St John's. I intend to give some details of the information which Brother Luke forwarded to me in his letter. I have discussed the matter with the Minister representing the Minister for Education in this House. I have given a copy of the letter to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and a copy to the Minister representing him. I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard.  Permission for the incorporation was given by the Minister representing the Minister for Education. 
St John's College at Lakemba has 623 students in years 5 to 10 or, in oldfashioned language, from fourth class to fourth form. Of those boys 405 come from 34 different countries, 373 of those boys come from 29 non-English speaking countries and 32 come from 5 English speaking countries. Without the ESL teachers- English as a second language teachers- the average numbers in English classes in years 5 to 8 increases from 20 pupils to 35 pupils. Brother Luke advises me that he is now receiving one application a week for the enrolment of migrant children, mainly in the lower classes and mainly involving newly arrived migrants. This is before the enrolments for 1977 have really opened. So Brother Luke can look forward to having a large increase in the number of migrant children attending St John's College at Lakemba. A test carried out in 1975 comparing the reading age with the chronological age showed that in year 10 students with a reading age of 24-plus months below their chronological age was 35.5 per cent, in year 9 it was 37.8 per cent, in year 8 it was 37.5 per cent and in year 7 it was 33.9 per cent. This alarming and heartbreaking situation compels me to bring the matter to public notice. I merely request the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who is at the table, to advise the Minister representing the Minister for Education that I believe that immediate, thorough and favourable consideration should be given to the allocation of special grants to St John's College, Lakemba, and to other schools- not only in New South Wales but also in other parts of Australiawhose young pupils are faced with a similar souldestroying problem. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females are employed in the (i) manufacturing and (ii) retailing of sporting equipment and sporting clothes. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
1 ) How many (a) males and (b) females over 70 years of age are permanent patients in nursing homes. 
What is the cost to the Government in maintaining these patients in nursing homes. 
What subsidies and/or concessions are granted to these nursing homes. 
Are similar subsidies and/or concessions granted to a person who cares for a chronically ill relative at home; if not, why not 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) When is the Task Force into health, welfare and community based programs to submit its report. 
Will the report be made public. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Sports Council been re-established. 
If so, what are the names and backgrounds of the persons appointed. 
What are the duties and responsibilities of the new Council. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development upon notice: 
1 ) Has any money been made available to any amateur sporting organisation for any purpose during 1 976-77. 
If so (a) what organisations received assistance and ( b ) for what purpose did they receive assistance. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Is there an organisation known as the Confederation of Australian Sport. 
If so, (a) when was it established, (b) who are its chief proponents, (c) how many meetings has it held, (d) what organisations were officially represented at any meetings, (e) was the Government officially represented at any meeting and ( f) what is the intent of the organisation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
How many employees in the (a) textile, (b) apparel and (c) footwear manufacturing industries have lost their jobs since March 1974. 
How many of these employees in each industry were (a) male and (b) female. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Tourist Commission had little success in convincing State Governments and travel/tourist industry groups to match, dollar for dollar, the Commonwealth 's future contribution to the Commission of $ 1 .5m. 
If so, what is the sense of maintaining any longer an organisation which, on a budget of $3m in 1976, has insufficient funds to carry out an effective and efficient promotional role. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Was the panic decision announced yesterday, to revalue the Australian dollar again, caused by the alarming rate of capital inflow? What was the amount of capital inflow since the announcement of the  17VS  per cent devaluation? Are our present methods of control defective? Is a new system of control under consideration? If so, is it to be other than the variable deposit ratio scheme? Who is his pet astrologist thos week and will he take notice of today's forecast for those born under the sign of Leo? It states: 
You will catch yourself talking to yourself today, and wonder about yourself. Normal enough, you 11 have no one else to talk to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Do overseas visitors spend approximately $244m per annum in Australia. 
If so, does this place the tourist/travel industry approximately tenth on the list of foreign currency earners. 
Is approximately a quarter of this amount spent outside capital cities. 
If the position is as stated, why has the Government relegated the tourist industry to a minor place in the Department  of industry and Commerce,  reduced spending on promotional activities, cancelled grants to the industry and failed to re-introduce the Travel Agents Registration Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the increase or decrease in the number of visitors to Australia in each year since 1971. 
Can the Minister say how these figures compare with (a) New Zealand, (b) Papua New Guinea, (c) Fiji, (d) The Philippines, (e) Singapore and (f) Indonesia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the suggestions made by the Australian Taxpayers' Association that (a) the company/shareholder tax situation should be modified, (b) indirect tax should not be charged on any items in the CPI figures, (c) sales tax should not be charged on any items acquired by firms which manufacture goods and (d) there should be a way of rebating the petrol tax paid on fuel for delivery vehicles. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Government to each of these suggestions. 
3 ) May I have an answer to this question by Thursday, 1 8 Nov. 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say what (a) grants, (b) loans, (c) tax concessions and (d) other inducements are made available to the travel/tourist industry by the Government in (i) Australia, (ii) New Zealand, (iii) Papua New Guinea, (iv) Fiji, (v) the Philippines, (vi) Singapore and (vii) Indonesia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Comemrce, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present position on the promised White Paper on the future of manufacturing industry in Australia. 
When does the Minister expect to present it to Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many illegal immigrants applied for and were granted permanent residence in Australia during the amnesty period earlier this year. 
Were any applications (a) rejected or (b) granted other than for permanent residence; if so, what was the reason for the decision in each case. 
What were the nationalities of all applicants. 
What was the estimated number of illegal immigrants in Australia (a) prior to the amnesty period and (b) at 31 August 1976. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When does he intend to keep the promise made by the Prime Minister in the policy speech of the Liberal Party for the 1975 election that the 'tax np-off would be stopped. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Industries Assistance Commission take into account the availability or otherwise of alternative employment for workers in an industry which it recommends should be phased out; if not, why not 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the South West Sydney Regional Social Development Council Ltd an early applicant for a Community Access Broadcasting Licence in New South Wales. 
) Is a second test transmission of the radio station to take lace on Friday 26, Saturday 27 and Sunday 28 November 976. 
When can the South West Sydney Regional Social Development Council Ltd expect a decision on its application for a licence. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the amount of sales tax collected on 
sporting equipment and 
b ) sporting clothes in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What effect did the decision of the Government to maintain fees assistance to non-government tertiary institutions at 1975 levels have on the fee structure of private secretarial colleges in 1976. 
What fees assistance is to be granted to private secretarial colleges in 1977. 
How many students attend private secretarial colleges in each State and Territory. 
How many of these students receive livingawayfromhome allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the locations of Government education institutions in New South Wales which provide secretarial courses for students. 
How many students can be accommodated in these courses at each of the locations. 
How many prospective students are rejected, particularly in rural areas, because of excess applications. 
What other educational institutions exist in which a person desiring to follow a secretarial career can enrol for tuition, and where are these located. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the draft recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission relating to the plastic weaving industry in Australia (a) allow the industry enough time to reconstruct, (b) recommend any review of the industry in the future and (c) take into account the long-term importance of this industry and changing economic factors in the future. If not, why not 
Is the Government at all concerned that the draft recommendation, if accepted, is likely to cause the unemployment of approximately 400 persons and an immediate large capital loss to all companies involved in the industry. If so, does the Government intend to reject the recommendation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been covering cricket tests on radio since 1932 and on television since 1957 and that the sporting public is highly satisfied with the ABC coverage, particularly because it is not interrupted by commercials? Has the Minister noted reports that the Channel 9 network has obtained exclusive rights to the Jubilee cricket test series between Australia and the Marylebone Cricket Club in England this year and to the Wimbledon, French and American tennis titles? Has he seen the reported statement by the  Chairman  of Channel 9 that the reason his network obtained these rights over the ABC could be given in one word, money, and that the deal cost a total of $2m? Was the ABC also seeking these rights but was unable to match the bid made by Channel 9 because of cuts in funds? 
Finally, in view of the fact that Channel 9 expects to make a substantial profit from sponsorship of these events, is this not simply a government subsidy for its old friends, Channel and Australian Consolidated Press Ltd? 
-The matter of public importance under discussion reads: 
The Government's incompetent handling of the Lebanese refugee problem. 
Incompetence is the reason for the Opposition taking up the matter. We are not making any complaints about the efforts that have been made by officers in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs whether here or overseas. We are making a complaint, and a strong one, about the incompetence of the Government in the Lebanese situation. Our complaint is based on the fact that during the last couple of years, when the conflict in the Lebanon has become worse, the Government at no time has given a clear indication of the guidelines for Lebanese migrants to Australia. I do not have to mention the closing of the Beirut embassy, and I do not have to mention the closing of the Damascus office. Those closures were done without due consideration. When the office opened in Nicosia it was patently clear to anyone who had bothered to look at the situation that the task force that was sent there in emergency would not be sufficient to handle the volume of applications that would come in. The Minister made play on the definition of refugee or quasi-refugee. The Opposition does not care one iota about the definition of refugee or quasi-refugee. We are interested in the fact that these people wishing to come to Australia are men and women. If I may quote from the  Merchant of Venice,  it was Shylock who said: 
If you prick us, do we not bleed? 
The situation in Lebanon has created many harrowing experiences for a great number of people. In Australia in the post-war years we have been accepting a large number of Lebanese people. They have left some of their family in the Lebanon. Because of the conflict in Lebanon they became worried about the future of their near relatives there. In many cases their homes have been completely destroyed and perhaps the husband or the brother of the person out here has been killed in the conflict. The Lebanese people have a tied family system. They are worried. They have every entitlement to be worried. Yes, they bleed. 
I speak on this matter because I have an electorate perhaps unique in Australia. Within my electorate there is a mosque and 2 churches of different branches of the Christian religion. So Lebanese activities in the electorate of Lang are particularly strong. Within the confines of my electorate, the electorate of Grayndler and one or two others around my area there has been a large influx of Lebanese people. They come to us continually wanting to bring out their mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews or cousins because they feel for their relatives in the Lebanon. I have found in the last 15 months or so that I am completely and utterly useless in trying to assist them. I accept their applications. I send them in to the Department with a covering letter. The people come back within a fortnight to find out whether I have received an answer. I check with the Department, which has perhaps sent the applications to Nicosia. Because of the shortage of staff in Nicosia and the large volume of people attending at that office there is a long delay. 
I mention as an example a man who went to Nicosia in October last year to see whether he could get his sister, her husband and their family out to Australia. They were intereviewed and medically examined in October. They were told that everything looked satisfactory and all that was being waited on was approval from Australia. While this man was there he paid to a travel agent the amount of fares for his sister, brother-in-law and family. He then found that he could get fares cheaper from another travel agent. He asked for a refund and he was given a refund. He was then told by the first travel agent that his sister would never get to Australia. There is now a holdup concerning the identity of his sister. He has produced statutory declarations to say that she is his sister. He has told me and other Lebanese people in my electorate have told me of bribes, favouritism, delays and the huge cost to them in maintaining their relatives in Nicosia or perhaps in the Lebanon. 
I am not accusing the officers of the Department of taking bribes; I am accusing people like the man the Minister mentioned. 
I am suggesting they are Lebanese people for the most part. I am also suggesting that there are organisations within Australia that are charging some of their own countrymen $100 to fill out an application form and to have it processed. I do not make any accusations, but the suggestion is that perhaps if a person pays the $100 then his sister or brother might have a greater opportunity of coming to Australia than if he does not pay the $100. That is the picture overseas. I give credit, as the honourable member for Melbourne did, to the officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs both locally and overseas. The pressures on them have been intense. But I suggest that the Government itself is to blame for the situation that has developed. If we look at what happens after these migrants come to Australia in fairly large numbers, into my electorate and into the electorate of Grayndler, we see heavy demands on the school system. Young children who do not know a word of English have to go to school but not enough teachers of English as a second language are being provided. In one school in my electorate there are 34 nationalities- a large proportion of whom are Lebanese. In a school in the electorate of Evans there are about 43 nationalities and not sufficient teachers of English as a second language. 
When these people come to Australia without a job and without English they go to the Commonwealth Employment Service but find that there are no interpreters. These people cannot fill out the application forms. The employer perhaps does not want them. This illustrates the imcompetence of government policy in relation to the Lebanese situation. This is what the Opposition complains about: the fact that these people are in difficulties. We are bringing them out to Austrlaia as quickly as we can but we should bear in mind the demands that are on us all. Relatives are impatient to have them here and that impatience will be curbed only if the maximum efficiency both overseas and here in Australia is applied to the situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that his suggestion in the House last week, namely, that Population Services International should defer the setting up of an abortion clinic in Canberra until all the health and legal aspects have been given full consideration, has apparently fallen on deaf ears? Is he aware that the PSI is proceeding on the basis that it will be fully operational in about 10 days's time? Is he also aware that the project director of PSI,  Dr Geoffrey  Davis of Sydney, has stated to the media that PSI is proceeding with its plans despite the Minister's statement? Is the Minister completely powerless in this matter, as  Dr Davis  and PSI appear to think? Is there any way that the abortion profiteers can be made to listen to a responsible request to hold off until the matter can be examined? 
I ask the Minister for Construction: Did spending in the non-residential sector of the building and construction industry decline by 1 per cent in real terms during 1975- 76? Do the latest estimates project a decline of some 4 per cent to 5 per cent in real terms during the 1976-77 financial year? Do these figures also show that activity in the residential sector has declined in the second half of 1976- 77? If so, how can the Government justify its claims that the building and construction industry is recovering? 
It has long been a point of etiquette that if one has visitors in one's home one tries to do nothing which would cause them embarrassment. The Government, as the chief host to  Her  Majesty and Prince Philip, has broken this cardinal rule and has embarrassed, indeed insulted,  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia by offering her the poorly composed Speech which we are now debating, a speech completely devoid of imagination, foresight, confidence in this great country of ours or confidence in its people. I apologise to  Her  Majesty on behalf of the constituents of Lang. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  has done what a lot of other Government speakers have done. They recited in parrot fashion a supposed list of accomplishments of this Government. Having some knowledge of the previous career of the honourable member for Bowman, might I suggest to him that he should find a new script writer. The Opposition has moved an amendment to the Address-in-Reply motion. The amendment seeks to add the following words to the Address-in-Reply:  but note that the Speech among other things- 
fails to outline the Government's program for economic management; 
thereby adds to the mounting uncertainty and concern in the community; 
accordingly leads to the belief that the Government 's policies will be totally inadequate to contend with worsening inflation, post-war record unemployment, business stagnation and declining living standards for millions of Australians, and 
neglects to outline details of social reforms which are essential to reduce inequalities and to overcome hardships being suffered by so many in need. 
Speaker after speaker on the Government side recited in parrot fashion words such as 'the economy is now about to improve' or 'we are coming out of the slump'. They proceeded to quote certain figures to try to prove their point of view. They went back to the initial few months of this Government's reign and told us some of the things they have done. 
In the Speech we are discussing there is no indication of any imaginative program to solve any of our ills mentioned by Her Majesty the Queen. The Budget is only 5 or 6 months away. The Cabinet is already discussing forward estimates. If we look at the situation in Australia at the moment we find that the economy is still declining and that unemployment is still rising. I have, I suppose, the latest statistics that are publicly available. I refer to the document entitled  Round-up of Economic Statistics,  No. 50 of March 1977, published by the Treasury. I would like to go through a few of the figures contained in that document. When we look at consumer spending we find that provisional estimates, which are subject to substantial revision, indicate that the real value of retail sales decreased by 2.5 per cent in seasonally adjusted terms in January to a level of 10.2 per cent above a year earlier. In the 3 months to January, the estimates show, seasonally adjusted retail sales increased by 2.2 per cent following increases of 1.9 per cent in the preceding 3 months and 3.6 per cent in the 3 months to July. So over a 12-month period we had an increase in retail sales of 10.2 per cent. This is not sufficient to cover the inflation rate that is running at the moment. 
If we turn to stocks, we find that after seasonal adjustment, the book value of stocks held by private enterprises increased by $63 1 m in the December quarter, following an increase of $466m in the previous quarter. This means that our private enterprise operations are buying in stock and putting it on the shelves but cannot sell it. This is a great indication of economic recovery! We have heard time and time again from Government supporters during this debate of the inordinate deficit brought in by the Labor Government in 1974 and 1975. I would like to again refer to the  Round-up of Economic Statistics  published by the Treasury, not by me. Under the heading 'Government spending' the publication stated: 
Commonwealth Government budget outlays in February were 31 per cent higher than in February 1976. In the first eight months of 1976-77 outlays were $15,805 million, 13.5 percent more than in the corresponding period of 1 975-76. 
This Government, this Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and members of this Parliament who sit on the National Country Party and the Liberal Party side of the House, have no reason at all to complain about the deficits of the Labor Government when their deficit is running at a higher level than we ever proposed. It is running at about $ 1,200m above their budgeted figure. 
Under the heading 'Exports' the publication states: 
Recorded exports in February totalled $9 1 1 m, almost 7 per cent below the January level . . . 
If we require finance to come into Australia we need to encourage our businesses to export. But honourable members on the Government side of the House are saying there is an expansion in the Australian economy today. In February our exports fell by almost 7 per cent below the January level. It is of interest to note that there have been decreases in exports of sugar, nonferrous ore and metals. 
The document points out that our major trading bank deposits, seasonally adjusted, rose by $36m in January following rises of $146m in December and $203m in November. Again this is an indication that the people of Australia are not spending their money. In the 5 weeks to 12 January new and increased lending commitments of major trading banks averaged $100m weekly, compared with averages of $1 16m in the 4 weeks to 8 December and $ 1 1 7m in the 4 weeks to 10 November. This morning's  Australian Financial Review  contained an interpretation of the Treasurer's remark that lending will be further restricted. How then can this Government, this Treasurer and this Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  expect the people of Australia to regain confidence in the management of the country? Australia is a remarkable country, we can afford to live well and we can employ our people but while the Government curtails lending commitments and does other things we cannot expect businessmen and workers to react with the confidence for which the Government is asking. 
Further, the document points out that seasonally adjusted savings bank depositors' balances rose by $70m in January compared with an average monthly rise of $ 137m in the December quarter. So less money is going into savings bank depositors' balances. Total savings bank depositors' balances have increased immeasurably over the last 1 5 months. The volume of money narrowly defined, known as Ml, increased at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 16 per cent in the 3 months to January compared with rises of 7 per cent and 1 per cent in the 3 months to October and July respectively. Government supporters have said that the Labor Government used the printing press to put out money. But the present Government is increasing the volume of money by 16 per cent. The Labor Government perhaps at one stage or another increased the volume of money by between 20 per cent and 30 per cent. But the present Government is now riding at 16 per cent. Nonetheless, Government spokesmen have been spouting how the Government will achieve economic recovery and how the economy is already recovering. 
Let us see what the publication had to say about industrial production which is related to jobs. We find that production of the 16 of the 32 items for which unadjusted statistics are available was higher in the 3 months to January 1977 than in the 3 months to January 1976. This compares with 1 8 of 34 such items in the December quarter and 17 in the 3 months to November when compared with the corresponding periods of 1 975. So again there is a decline in production. Where are all the signs that show an improvement in the economy about which Government supporters are talking? 
The  Round-up of Economic Statistics  No. 50 of March 1977, published by the Treasury makes the following comment in respect of imports: 
Recorded imports in February 1977 totalled S918m, 4 per cent higher than in January. In the 3 months to February recorded imports totalled S2,583m, 27 per cent above the same period a year earlier. Seasonally adjusted, recorded imports in the three months to February were 18 per cent higher than in the preceding three months. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I want you to note in particular these comments because I know that some of the industries mentioned in this publication are located in your electorate of Banks. The publication stated: 
In recent months there appear to have been increases in imports of food and live animals - 
The 2 members of the National Country Party should note that comment-  petroleum, machinery and transport equipment, footwear and clothing. 
Some of those industries would be in the electorates of Hughes, Sydney and Lang. 
Supporters of the Government stand up and prattle out parrot fashion what the Government has done in respect of family allowances when in fact the Government has taken money out of the pay packet of the father and given it to the mother. In many other directions the Government has done nothing to improve the situation that supposedly it inherited in 1975. Bearing in mind the figures that I have quoted, if anything, the situation is a lot worse than it was when the present Government took office. It is of no use now for Government supporters to continue to say that they inherited this situation. It is of no use to say that industry has lost confidence. This Government has had since December 1975 to introduce an economic policy to improve the situation which exists in Australia today; but it has not done so. Everything is still declining. I am suggesting that Government supporters now have to forget about criticising the unions for not increasing production and perhaps for going on strike and forget about begging the private enterprise moguls to do something about the situation. The Government now has to set about talking to employers, employees and the lending institutions to convince them that unless we all work together, unless they are all prepared to play their part, our economy is not going to improve. 
The point that I wish to make is that over 12 months ago, I think it was, the Jackson Committee brought down a Green Paper on the manufacturing industry. It was then decided that a White Paper would follow. There has been no real indication of that White Paper being produced. I, and other members on this side of the House, have placed questions on notice. Yesterday the honourable member for Port 
Adelaide  (Mr Young)  made a long speech about it. If this Government relies so much on the private sector, on the little businessman, then surely it has to have the courage to tell the little businessman, and the big businessman for that matter, what the future of Australian manufacturing industry is. The Government cannot expect those so engaged to sit back and wait. It cannot leave them to wonder and wonder what they should do. When they finally take some step the Government then comes out with a policy that has disastrous effects on the manufacturing industry as our 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut did in 1973. 
If this Government wants Australia to continue to develop it will need to have policies that are understood and that are clearly enunciated in relation to our mining industry, our petroleum industry, our manufacturing industry and our rural industry. This Government will have to give an indication to the working men and women in Australia what lies in front of them by way of taxation, what lies in front of them as regards improved working conditions, higher pay, better health, educational and other services. This Government cannot sit back any longer and say that the faults that now exist in Australia belong to the 3 years of Labor rule. 
I do not intend to cover the specific details of the Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill but rather to make some general comments. Other speakers have gone into the Bill in some detail but I want to say something about our aid program generally and the policies that I think we might have to adopt in the near future. Few in the Parliament would not agree that Australia can afford to participate in aid schemes such as  this. Even under our present economic conditions, Australia is a rich and prosperous country with an exceedingly bright future. Australia can come again. Our economy will revive, given a change of policies. I, and I would say, all members of the Australian Labor Party would not like to see any curtailment of our aid to developing countries. I am not always certain that in some of our aid programs in which we put money that our money is spent in the best manner, although we have been generally fairly careful concerning the projects and the type of aid to which we have granted money. 
I feel that the Asian Development Bank is a relatively safe way of granting aid. On the first page of the second reading speech of the Minister assisting the Treasurer, the honourable Ian Viner, he said: 
To the end of December 1976, the Bank had lent about SUS3.4 billion to its developing member countries for projects covering all the major sectors of economic development with emphasis on the development of infrastructure facilities in the transport and communications industry and electric power sectors as well as projects for agriculture, education, water supply and urban development. 
I have been to many of these developing countries in Asia and East Asia. I always count my blessings when I come back to Australia after witnessing some of the things in these countries. My main impression in lots of these developing countries is that the population is divided into 2 classes- the rich and the poor. The rich are divided into 3 classes- the millionaires, the very rich and the richer. The poor are also divided into 3 classes- the poor, the very poor and the poverty stricken. What we are devoting our aid to for infrastructure and for general improvements in the conditions of these countries is certainly doing something to help the people in these countries from the humanitarian point of view. I feel that Australia can and should help developing countries, particularly those to our near north and in the near islands in the Pacific Ocean. In the next few years they will need our material, our technical skills, our finances and, by the year 2000 I would suggest, our markets. 
I wish to quote from an article written by  Dr Clive  Edwards, Senior Lecturer in Economics at the Australian National University. I shall not bother to paraphrase it because I think that  Dr Edwards  has said it succinctly and straightly. He said: 
The lack of a continuous coverage of political events in Asia together with some thoughtful interpretation is serious enough. But when one considers the coverage of economic developments in Asia, one recoils in horror. There is little appreciation in Australia of major economic developments occurring in Asia and there is little desire to unravel the potential impact of these developments on Australia. Asian developments are considered to be external to the main stream of events affecting the economic future of Australia. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
What then are the main economic developments in Asia which have implications for Australia? 
The first point which deserves to be stressed is that, with the exception of Japan, population growth rates throughout Asia are high. In most Asian countries, the population growth rate is above 2 per cent a year. Most of these countries have experienced high population growth rates at least since 19S0. More recently, fertility has fallen in some countries, rapidly in some instances (Taiwan, the Peoples' Republic of China, South Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore), less rapidly in other instances (Malaysia, Thailand. Sri Lanka). But for most of the countries, population growth rates will remain around 2 per cent a year for the rest of this century. A population growing continuously by 2 per cent a year will double within 35 years. Thus Indonesia, with a population of 120m. in 1 970 growing by just over 2 per cent a year, will have a population of 240m. shortly after the year 2000. Thailand, with a population of 40m. in 1970 growing by more than 2.5 per cent a year, will have a population of 80m. around the year 2000. Most other Asian countries can expect their population to double between 1970 and 2000. 
High population growth rates are a relatively recent development. Before 1945, the population of many Asian countries grew by 1 per cent or less a year. After the war, the eradication of malaria and improvements in medical health led to a sharp fall in mortality, and especially in infant mortality. Much of the population growth that occurred between 1950 and 1965 was accounted for by a sharp increase in the child population as a higher proportion of infant births survived the early days of life. Since 1965, this swollen child population began to spill into the early labour force ages. As a result, the rate of growth of the labour force jumped in most Asian countries from between 1 to 1 .5 per cent a year to between 2 and 3 per cent a year. Because fertility remains high, most Asian countries will experience labour force growth rates of between 2 and 3 per cent a year for the remainder of this century and for still longer if fertility does not fall markedly over the next decade (labour force growth rates follow fertility changes with a 1 5 to 20 year time lag). 
Labour force growth rates of this order extended over a lengthy period of time are unprecedented in human history. In many of the Asian countries, the available labour force will double within the next 25 years. Table I provides estimates of the world labour force from 1950 to 1980. It highlights two points. First, Asia housed almost half (46 per cent) of the world labour force in 1970. Second, of the expected increase in the world labour force between 1970 and 1980- 200m- Asia will provide 1 12m. It is this labour force explosion, largely occurring in Asia, which has direct significance for Australia today. In the context of world resource endowments, labour is becoming relatively still more abundant in Asia. 
That is the point. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the table to which I have referred. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has any amateur sporting body received a grant in any manner or form since 1 July 1976. 
If so, what is the name of the organisation and the reason for the grant. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to a forthcoming book entitled  Murder of a Gentle Land  by John Barron and 
Anthony Paul, a condensed version of which is published in the February 1977 edition of  Reader's Digest  at pages 158-190. 
Can he say whether the atrocities described in the book did in fact occur. 
If so, has the Australian Government lodged any protest with the Cambodian Government and/or the United Nations Organisation. 
What was the result of any protest. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to paragraph 1 60 of the Report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. 
Can he say why the Task Force did not recommend that the Commonwealth assist with the fares of contestants to national sporting championships when this proposal was adopted by the Recreation Ministers' Council at its meeting injune 1976. 
If not, will he obtain a full explanation of the reasons for this omission from the  Chairman  of the Task Force,  Mr P.  H. Bailey. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development been drawn to the announcement that a film made in Australia entitled  Leisure  was awarded an Oscar in the animated short film section of the Academy Awards? Is this the first Oscar to be won by an Australian film since the Second World War? Has the Minister yet seen the film? If so, what were his impressions? Was the film commissioned and funded during the term of the Labor Government by the now defunct Department of Tourism and Recreation? Was the film all but completed prior to 11 November 1975? Finally, will the Minister arrange for a private screening of the film for the benefit of senators and members of this place and for an immediate screening on Australian Broadcasting Commission television for the benefit of all Australians? 
I would like to ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  a question. As it is proposed that the House is to adjourn until 1 9 April and in view of the fact that the pending referendums are to be put to the people on 21 May, can the honourable gentleman give an indication to the House whether the tentative program that the Government has laid down will be adhered to or whether the Parliament will adjourn from about 5 May until after the referendums have been held? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many (a) male and (b) female 1976 school leavers applied for unemployment benefit on the day they became eligible for payment under the Government's policy. 
How many (a) male and (b) female 1976 school leavers have applied for benefit since that day. 
What is the total number of 1976 school leavers who are now in receipt of unemployment benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many (a) male and (b) female school leavers in each State who registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service from the end of the 1976 school year and were not found employment were granted unemployment benefit prior to the beginning of the 1977 school year. 
What was the total amount paid to those granted unemployment benefit. 
What would have been the estimated cost to revenue had ail applicants been granted unemployment benefit. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to recommendations 26, 27 and 28 of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. 
If so, what action is being taken to implement these recommendations. 
If not, will he examine the recommendations with a view to their immediate implementation. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development upon notice on 9 March 1 977: 
Has his attention been drawn to recommendation 15 and paragraph 171 of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. 
If so, what action is being taken to implement the recommendation and the suggestion outlined in paragraph 171. 
If not, will he examine the recommendation with a view to its immediate implementation in accordance with the timing outlined in paragraph 171. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
How many (a) Australian born single males, (b) Austraiian born married males, (c) foreign born single males and (d) foreign born married males are in receipt of (i) unemployment benefit and (ii) sickness benefit. 
How many (a) Australian born and (b) foreign born single females are in receipt of (i) unemployment and (ii) sickness benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to recommendation 24 of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. 
If so, what action is being taken to implement parts (a), (b) and c) of the recommendation. 
If not, will he examine the recommendation with a view to its immediate implementation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has he set a date for the transmission to him of the second report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health in which it is proposed to concentrate on the development of proposals for the more effective coordination of social policy development at the Commonwealth level. 
If so, will it be available for the 1977-78 Budget deliberations. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many (a) male and (b) female school leavers registered for employment in each State from the end of the 1 976 school year to the beginning of the 1 977 school year. 
How many (a) male and (b) female school leavers who registered in each State were found employment. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. Is the Prime Minister aware that the aerospace firm of TRW Incorporated, which employed the defendant in the Los Angeles spy trial, is one of the 2 principal contractors for the joint United States-Australia defence space facilities in central Australia? In view of the fact that the defendant said that he passed information about Australia to the Russians, is this not a grave breach of Australian as well as American security and does it not mean that the functions of the joint facilities may now be known to the Russians? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has he received the final report of the Industries Assistance Commission on tyres. 
2 ) Can he say whether the tyre industry is most concerned that the final report of the IAC will not grant sufficient protection to allow it to remain viable. 
Will the Government take into account, before reaching a decision on the level of protection to be granted, the importance of the industry to (a) the work force, (b) the supplying industries, (c) the consumer and (d) the economy generally. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) What special provisions are made by the Commonwealth Employment Service for servicing the requirements of non-English speaking applicants attending at CES offices. 
Which CES areas in each State have the largest number of members of ethnic groups registered for employment. 
Compared to areas with a very small migrant content of applicants, but dealing with approximately the same number of registrations, are offices with a large migrant content provided with extra staff to allow for the additional time that must be taken by officers to obtain information from and conduct interviews with non-English speaking applicants; if not, why not. 
Are any fully trained members of the staff employed at large migrant content offices capable of acting as interpreters; if so, in what language or languages. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the anticipated effect on Australia's travel deficit arising from the recently introduced APEX (advance purchase) fare between Sydney/London and London/Sydney by Qantas and British Airways. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the projected increase in tourists/travellers to Australia from (a) Europe, (b) Britain, (c) the United States of America, (d) Japan and (e) New Zealand during 1977. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the production and presentation of  Power Without Glory  cost the Australian Broadcasting Commission over $2m. If not, what was the cost, and what is the breakdown of that cost. 
) Is it also a fact that prior to production and/or presentation of the program, legal advice was sought from the Attorney-General. If so, will he release the text of the legal advice and any qualifications or instructions imposed by the Attorney-General. 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Did he receive a deputation from the Confederation of Australian Sport yesterday? If so, did he give a firm assurance to the deputation that he would be recommending to the Treasurer the re-introduction of a program of assistance for national sporting bodies or did he, as reported to me, cluck around like a broody hen? 
-by leave-As Deputy Chairman of the Standing Committee on Expenditure, I wish to be associated with the presentation of the Committee's first report, which relates to accommodation for married servicemen. I merely ask the Government whether it will put this report under immediate study and take action to implement the recommendations because the Committee did find that there is room for improvement in the system of providing accommodation for married servicemen. If a parliamentary committee is to operate as we did, I believe that the Government owes it to that parliamentary committee immediately to investigate the reports that are presented. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many migrants, whose sponsors provided maintenance guarantees for them prior to their entry into Australia, are in receipt of special benefit payments. 
What action is taken to see that the obligations of the maintenance guarantees are enforced. 
) Under what circumstances are sponsors released from the obligations of the maintenance guarantees. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
What inquiries are carried out by his Department to ensure that sponsors signing maintenance guarantees on behalf of aged dependent parents prior to entry to Australia are in a position to meet the obligations covered by the guarantees. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) How many charter flights were allowed into Australia during (a) 1976 and (b) 1977 to date. 
What airlines were granted charter flight rights. 
How many passengers were carried on these flights. 
What is the amount of foreign currency spent in Australia by this type of visitor. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
1 ) Have any airlines made applications for charter flights to Australia from Japan since 1 January 1 976. 
If so, (a) how many applications were granted, (b) what was the reason for the rejection of any unsuccessful applications and (c) what was the name of the airline in each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
1 ) What is the total single and return fare charged by Qantas for (a) first and (b) economy class air travel from Sydney to and to Sydney from the following cities: (i) Auckland, (ii) Honolulu, (iii) San Francisco, (iv) Singapore, (v) Rome, (vi) London, (vii) Manila, (viii) Hong Kong and (ix) Tokyo. 
What is the cost per kilometre for each of the trips referred to in pan (1 ). 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many women's refuge and crisis centres are in existence in each State and Territory. 
2 ) What is the location of each centre. 
How many women and children were given shelter at each of the centres in the last 12 months. 
What is the amount of (a) State and (b) Commonwealth Government funds provided to each centre. 
Are all centres operated predominantly by voluntary labour. 
Will the Minister give urgent and sympathetic consideration to the full and continuing funding of these centres. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Has the Minister received representations from the Australian Federation of Child Care Associations regarding massive vacancies in child care centres in Australia. 
Does this Association represent the commercial day care sector. 
Is the claim of the Association, that a 30 per cent vacancy rate exists, correct. 
Is the main reason for the plight of the commercial sector an increasing duplication of these services by the establishment of Government centres and Government funded family day care programs. 
) If so, what action is being taken by the Government to rationalise commercial and Government programs. 
-Is the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations aware of the recent collapse of two travel agencies and of the rumoured collapse of several more which will cause financial loss and inconvenience to many hundreds of Australian travel consumers? Can he explain why he failed to press for the reintroduction of the Travel Agents Bill 1975 which lapsed following the peculiar happenings, to say the least, of 1 1 November 1975 when that legislation was a consumer protective measure and when he was Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and also the Minister in this House representing  Senator Cotton  whose portfolio covered tourism and travel agents? Is he also aware that the adoption by the Parliament of uniform legislation for the registration and control of travel agents could have prevented the collapse of these agencies or, at least, ensured that the consumers using those agencies would not suffer financial loss? As a matter of urgency, will the Minister now press for the introduction of uniform legislation to register and control travel agents throughout Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Which travel organisations were represented on the recent Australian travel trade mission to North America. 
) Was the mission regarded as a success. 
Are further travel trade missions being planned; if so, is Japan included in the countries to be visited; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many applications for loans for tourist projects have been lodged with the Commonwealth Development Bank since the Commonwealth Development Bank Act was amended to include these projects. 
How many applications for loans have been approved. 
What was the reason for the rejection of the unsuccessful applications. 
What is the maximum amount of loan which can be granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Is the Minister able to say whether SO per cent more charter nights to international destinations were offered to the American public in the first quarter of 1977 than were available during the whole of 1976. 
If so, is the Minister also able to say how many of these flights were to (a) Pacific Ocean destinations, including Australia, and (b) direct to Australia. 
-The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  finished speaking before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. He said that when the Labor Party took over government at the end of 1 972 it was left with minor ills by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. I suggest that he look at history. One of the main reasons we were left with major ills was the fact that from 1 969 to 1974 the Liberal Party had four leaders. In 1969  Senator John  Gorton resigned from the Senate to contest the leadership of the Liberal Party and the Prime Ministership- a clear indication that in this House at that time there was not one member of the Liberal Party who had the ability to become Prime Minister of Australia.  Sir John  Gorton was Prime Minister from 1969 to some time in 1971 when on an even vote in the Liberal Party rooms he was deposed. He stood down from his office.  His  place was taken by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  He lasted until after the 1972 election. Then you,  Sir, took  over leadership of the then Opposition. 
You lasted until after the 1974 election. You are down in history as saying: 'I have no troubles with my leadership. All my colleagues would walk over hot coals for me.' The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who stabbed you in the back, had stated publicly his utmost loyalty to you - 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that Australia's foreign exchange reserves fell by $209m in the first two weeks in September and that that slide in our reserves has persisted unbroken for the past 17 weeks? Is it a fact that this decline cannot be accounted for alone by a weakness in the current account and that it must therefore contain a large speculative element? If so, what steps have been taken or are to be taken to curb this speculation against the dollar? 
-As soon as the Government made its precipitate decision to mine and export uranium the whole purpose of this debate was lost. The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry was set up by the Labor Government to investigate the safeguards and requirements that would be necessary if Australia were to enter into the rnining and export of uranium. The Government took a decision before this House or the community had had an opportunity to debate the topic thoroughly. 
The memories of many Government supporters and of most sections of the media are very short. Accusation after accusation has been made by Government supporters during this debate about the Labor Party's inconsistency in relation to nuclear power and the mining and sale of uranium. Let me take honourable members back a few short years. In 1947 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  first guided the thinking of Australians towards nuclear power. The establishment of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission was on the way when the Chifley Government was defeated in 1948. At no stage during the years has the Labor Party been against nuclear technology. The policy which was formulated in Perth this year by the Australian Labor Party National Conference includes the following: 
To this end Labor will establish a National Fuel and Energy Commission to assist the Australian Government in developing and implementing a co-ordinated fuel and energy policy. The Commission will, together with the Department of Minerals and Energy, provide the Australian Government with expert advice on energy. 
The Fuel and Energy Commission will: . . . monitor the exploration, development, transport, price, marketing and use of energy hydrocarbons, fissionable materials and generative water, with the object of achieving the best energy balance for Australia. 
The only thing that we have done during the whole of the debate on nuclear energy in Australia has been to insist that environmental safeguards and normal safety procedures should be well and truly established- that the waste, the rubbish that lasts for years and years, should be disposed of with safety to the community. All we ask now is that this Government establish those safety factors. I remind the House that in 1969, with a loud blast of trumpets, an announcement was made that a nuclear prototype reactor would be built at Jervis Bay. I note the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is paying due attention to me. I remind him that in 1953 and 1954 he wrote a couple of pamphlets entitled 'Time and the Bomb' and 'Survival is a Part of Defence'. At that stage the honourable member for Mackellar was a proponent of nuclear weaponry. 
In 1969, when the Jervis Bay prototype reactor was first mentioned, it was the Labor Opposition which insisted that environmental aspects of the disposal of waste should be very thoroughly examined by the then Government In order to prove my point, let me quote an answer given on 19 August 1970 by the Minister for National Development to question No. 1191 which I had asked. It appears in the House of Representatives  Hansard  for that date at page 253.1 asked: 
Will he make available the reports on the (a) (i) geological, (ii) hydrological, (iii) hydrographical, (iv) meteorological, (v) ecological and (vi) environmental investigations carried out at each of the sites considered for the building of a nuclear power station and (b) ability of each site to dispose of the radioactive and thermal waste from the proposed reactor. 
The Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz,  replied: 
The reports to which the honourable member has referred are confidential studies by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Electricity Commission of New South Wales prepared for management. 
Secrecy shrouded every move in the proposed development of a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. The same secrecy, the same evasiveness, the half truths are still around now when we talk about nuclear power and the rnining and export of uranium. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talks about the disposal of waste and says that technology has been developed. But he cannot give one instance of that technology being commercially viable at this stage. 
Let me revert to 1969 because I think that many honourable members in this House and many people in the media ought to direct their attention back to the years between 1969 and 1972 to see just how consistent the Labor Party has been in its policies on nuclear energy in Australia. I repeat that at no stage have we in our policies ever been opposed outright to the development of nuclear technology. Because of the reluctance of the Government in 1969-70 to provide the community with information about nuclear technology at Jervis Bay I moved, during consideration of the estimates for the Department of National Development on 1 October 1970, the following amendment: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $10 as an instruction to the Government that a select committee of this House should be appointed to inquire into and report on the uses of nuclear power in relation to- 
a ) the projected power needs of the Commonwealth; 
the comparative advantage derived from generating power in this way as against all other sources now being employed; 
the effects of the establishment of a nuclear power station upon the environment; 
administrative procedures and regulations adopted elsewhere to lessen any undesirable effects of the operation of such a station to ensure the utmost protection of members of the public and the national interest; and 
the desirability of establishing a nuclear power station at this time pending the outcome of further technological developments taking place elsewhere. 
That debate commenced in this House at 1.14 a.m. I was joined in the debate by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who said: 
Then and only then will our people be informed of the crucial matters relating to the degree of radiation emissions, and their possible effects on health and the environment, and the dispersal of radioactive wastes. 
He went on to say: 
Thirdly, the concept of the tolerance dose of radioactive poison is developed. The first step is to determine what dose of poison converts humans immediately from vertical to horizontal positions where they remain. This, of course, is above tolerance, so the dose a little lower than that, perhaps five times lower than a lethal dose is prescribed. 
He went on to talk of the dangers of radioactive waste and radioactivity generally. This was an important debate-at least according to people it is an important debate now- on nuclear power and nuclear technology. It took place in this Parliament at 1.14 a.m. because even then the Government of the day, which was of the same political complexion as the present Government, had no idea at all of and no interest in the national welfare of Australia or, indeed, of the world. The Government parties were looking at the topic then in the same way as they are looking at it now: Get it out of the ground, sell it, and hang the consequences. But they should always remember that the most important commodity on God's earth is the human being- man and woman. The Government cannot take the risk with nuclear technology that it is prepared to take. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  also spoke in that debate. In his speech on 1 October 1970 he said: 
I think it has been fairly well canvassed that the CANDU reactor using natural uranium fuel produces quite an amount of plutonium 239 which is the material used to make a very basic dirty bomb. A dirty bomb is one that throws off a lot of radioactivity. Of course, the proof of the pudding will be in the eating when we see the type of reactor finally selected. 
It was because of the efforts of people Uke the honourable member for Hawker, the honourable member for Blaxland, the late Rex Connor, former  Senator Don  Willesee that the then Government, which was of the same politicacomplexion as the present Government, cancelled the development of the prototype reactor at Jervis Bay. The excuse given at that stage was that it was economically not possible to do so; but $3m had already been spent by the Government in developing that project. The real reason that Prime Minister McMahon, the Prime Minister of the day, cancelled the project was that the experts- the same experts who are being quoted now in relation to the disposal of nuclear wastecould not decide on the type of reactor that was required; did not know what environmental effects it would have on Jervis Bay; had no idea where the waste was to be disposed of. The project was cancelled for the very simple reason that nuclear technology was then, as it still is now, a dangerous concept. It is all right for the honourable member for Holt  (Mr. Yates)  to shake his head, but I remind him that it was governments of a political complexion similar to his that sent many of our young boys and girls into war. The present Government is doing the same sort of thing in relation to nuclear energy. But the Government is not perturbed about the after effects that could occur. 
I reiterate that at no stage has the Australian Labor Party been totally opposed to the development of nuclear technology, nor has it been opposed to the rnining or export of uranium. We insisted in 1969 that a select committee be established. We established the Fox inquiry in order to find out the dangers associated with the development of nuclear technology. This Government, in pursuit of the almighty dollar, makes a decision and announces in this House that this is all going to happen. I ask honourable members opposite to answer me this question: Where do they intend to place the rubbish that comes from the nuclear reactors? 
I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is it a fact that all funds granted to emergency unemployment committees for Community Youth Support Scheme programs have been frozen? If so, why was this decision taken? Is the Minister aware of the excellent work being done by these committees, particularly the South West Sydney Emergency Unemployment Committee, in assisting young people of varying ethnic groups to find employment? Will the Minister take immediate action to restore funds to these schemes? 
-Is the Treasurer aware that last Thursday, during a reply to a question asked by my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the Prime Minister said that the velocity of circulation of money was a material factor in the analysis of targets of monetary policy? Is it a fact that the income velocity of money at the end of the June quarter was higher than it has been in recent times? Does the Government expect a further increase in the velocity of circulation to allow a sustainable drop in interest rates within the Government's stated monetary target? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, this statement might surprise you: I have always liked the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Since I came to this Parliament in 1953 he has reminded me of a joyful, exuberant youth with his first degree behind him. Ever since then he has been studying for a doctorate and writing a thesis every five weeks. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! I invite the honourable member for Lang to return to the discussion on the estimates for the Department of Productivity, the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-The honourable member for Mackellar has just espoused his latest thesis about industries in Australia. Since 1 949, except for a break of three years, he has been a member of a government that built up inefficient industries in Australia, the like of which have never been seen before in any other country. The speech we have just heard from the honourable member for Mackellar is another death bed confession. Of course our industries are inefficient. Of course they need protection. But from 1949 to 1975 it was the honourable member for Mackellar and people of his ilk who pandered to management, who allowed them to bring in funds from overseas without any restrictions, any controls, any guidance, or any planning. Now at 70 years of age the honourable member for Mackellar is telling my party, the Australian Labor Party, the unions, and the industrial movement, where they are wrong. Of course we want employment. Of course we want industries. But the Liberal-National Country Party Government during its 23 years in office, allowed our structure, our foundations, our whole country to fall by the wayside. 
I did rise to talk about division 382- Australian Tourist Commission, subdivision 1- For expenditure under the Australian Tourist Commission Act. This year the Australian Tourist Commission is being granted by this Government the magnanimous sum of $2. 8m. I was the first Minister for Tourism in this country. My title was Minister for Tourism and Recreation. I selected the portfolio because I had always been interested in sport and recreation. At that stage I did not think much of tourism, but I have changed my mind since 19 December 1972. 1 am now convinced that tourism is not froth and bubble, fun and frivolity: Tourism is an industry, perhaps an indefinable industry, that does a lot for Australia domestically and for our balance of overseas payments. Since this Government has come to office it has tried to whittle away the amount of money that has been offered to the Australian Tourist Commission for overseas promotion. Unless we get international visitors coming to Australia, what is called the travel deficit or the travel gap will increase even further. Certainly the figures vary, but last year Australians spent more overseas than international visitors spent in Australia. This meant in round figures a travel deficit of about $250m. There we have the deficit and yet in division 382- Australian Tourist Commission, all this Government gives for overseas promotion of tourism is $2. 8m. Out of that $2. 8m the Australian Tourist Commission has to run its own administration and it has now been told to pay its own superannuation payments. Yet 40,000 international tourists coming to Australia mean about 1,400 jobs to Australia. 
With due respect to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  his State is going to rely more and more on tourism, whether it involves mainlanders going down to the south island or whether it involves international visitors coming to Australia and going to Tasmania. This Government must recognise- my Government failed to do so in the three years for which I was the Minister for Tourism and Recreationthat this is a tertiary industry that is well worth encouraging and protecting because it has a lot to do with hamlets and villages throughout Australia that rely either on the day tripper or the person who stays for two or three weeks over school holidays or at Christmas time. 
I mentioned that 40,000 international tourists mean an increase of 1,400 jobs. We are talking about unemployment. We get into these academic arguments about free trade, protection, or the amount of protection. It is time that Australia started to look at some of the factors involved. It is said that because some other countries have no unions and they can get people to work for nothing in darkness, in slime and in filth we have to pass all our manufacturing industry to them. I say: No, we certainly should not. We need more efficiency in management than we have ever had in this country's history. We need as well a sensible trade union movement that will not allow itself to be provoked by people who represent the manufacturers and the entrepreneurs. To preserve our 14 million people in Australia and to reduce the number of unemployed, we need a balanced plan for development. Whilst we have in Australia now this desperate, deliberate confrontation- one side against the other- we will not be the nation that I thought we would be. 
When the honourable member for Mackellar starts talking about what is happening to our manufacturing industries I ask him and you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to look at who committed the sins of omission and commission. There has been something like 23 years of Labor Party rule in the Australian Parliament since 1901. Between 1972 and 1975 we changed the face of Australia. We changed the opinion of many people who had never voted Labor before. Until such time as people recognise that we are not different whether we come from Tasmania, Victoria or New South Wales - 
-Or South Australia. We are Australians. It is only this Australian Government that can make Australia work. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-Yes. The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  was referring to the fact that while these things which he has been describing were happening I had not previously raised my voice in this Parliament. If he will do me the honour of consulting  Hansard  he will find that I have continually been drawing attention to these things. He talks about a death bed confession. I hope I have a glorious resurrection in another place. 
I move that the following words be added to the motion: 
And the name Lang be substituted for Grayndler. 
My reason for doing that is that in the new electorate, or should I call it the new, new electorate of Grayndler, the constituents are made up of 11,384 from Grayndler, 2,485 from Blaxland, 35,181 from Evans and 22,208 from the seat of Lang. Yet the commissioners have proposed the name of Grayndler. Apparently the Government has accepted the name of Grayndler. 
Yes, it should be called the seat of Evans, as I intend to show. But as it is not being called the seat of Evans I prefer to have it called the seat of Lang. The reason it should be called the seat of Evans is that in 1968 a select committee of the Parliament, the House of Representatives Select Committee on the Naming of Electoral Divisions, was appointed. The Committee was chaired by E. M. C. Fox. One of the members was  Mr Gordon  Bryant and another member was  Mr Duke  Bonnett. Those last two members are in the Parliament now. The Select Committee established by the House of Representatives stated on page 7 of the report: 
That, when two or more Divisions are partially combined at a redistribution, as far as possible the name of the new Division should be that of the old Division which has the greatest number of electors within the new boundaries. 
The South Australian Commissioners in their report on the distribution at page 3, paragraph 8, said: 
For the purpose of this Report, your Commissioners have allocated names to proposed Divisions on the basis of the name of the existing Division providing a preponderance of the electors. This decision is in accord with recommendations made in a report in 1969 by a House of Representatives Select Committee on the naming of Electoral Divisions (Parliamentary Paper, No. 35-1969). However, your Commissioners submit that the name of Angas has greater significance to South Australia than that of Wakefield. 
The New South Wales Commissioners in their report at page 4, paragraph 10, said: 
Your Commissioners are aware that it is not their prerogative to name Electoral Divisions and have, as a matter of convenience, allocated tentative names in order to refer to the Divisions concerned. In allocating tentative names to the proposed Divisions of Parramatta, Sydney and Grayndler, your Commissioners recognised that the majority of the electors included in each of those proposed Divisions are currently enrolled for Divisions having other names. While they feel that Parramatta and Sydney are appropriate place names, they appreciate that the position m respect of the name Grayndler is not so clear. 
Why they named it Grayndler, I do not know. I agree with some of the statements made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who spoke before me in the debate, that pressure was applied on the Commissioners to name the seat Grayndler. In the original proposal brought down by the commissioners the seat of Lowe had 22,208 of the constituents from the existing seat of Lang. After the protests had been heard there was a clean sweep of those 22,208 constituents out of the proposed seat of Lowe into the new, new seat of Grayndler. If the select committee of this Parliament has any authority at all, the new, new seat of Grayndler should be called Evans. I propose that one of the reasons that it has not been called Evans is that the present honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  is endeavouring to become the new honourable member for Lowe, and it suits him very much if there is no division named Evans. It is not possible for him to win the new, new seat of Grayndler because it happens to be a Labor seat. If the name of Evans is kept for that area, the present honourable member for Evans might not have the opportunity of running against the present honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  So, because of the pressures applied the name of Evans was allowed to become non-existent. Then for some reason- some untold reason- instead of going down to the next electorate with the largest number of constituents and naming the seat Lang, the Commissioners passed over to the name of Grayndler. 
The name of Grayndler, of course, is not a particularly well known one. It has been in existence only since 1949, and so has the name of Lowe, for that matter. But the division of Lang has been in existence since 1 90 1 . It was one of the original divisions. Yet, the decision was taken by the Commissioners to name this new, new seat of Grayndler, Grayndler. They have passed over a division which has been in existence since 1901 and which has the second largest number of constituents and called the seat Grayndler. I am not a very suspicious person, but I cannot help being suspicious because there was talk that the present honourable member for Grayndler,  Mr Tony  Whitlam, and myself were likely to oppose each other for the seat of Grayndler. It was indicated that perhaps I had the numbers. Because the honourable member for Grayndler is an honourable man he has decided he will run for the seat of St George. That was proposed earlier. The name of Grayndler was retained in order to try to create embarrassment between myself and the present honourable member for Grayndler. The present honourable member for Grayndler will become the new honourable member for St George. 
I suggest that in this instance the recommendations of the select committee should be followed and if the present incumbent for the seat of Evans does not want that name retained the choice of name should pass down to the seat with the next largest numbers in the territory. If that name is not wanted an impartial name could be chosen. The seat of Parkes was in existence for some time. The name of Parkes is certainly much better known than either Grayndler or Evans. So if an impartial and neutral name is wanted let us call the electorate Parkes because this area was substantially in the old seat of Parkes a few years ago. It may be that the name of Parkes is not considered appropriate. In this case, I point out that the late Joe Cahill, a Premier of" New South Wales, resided in the Marrickville district. Perhaps the seat could be called Cahill. However, of course, I would prefer to see it called Lang. I have held the seat of Lang now for about 25 years. Only one other member has held the seat for longer than that period. Honourable members will break my intended record if they do not change their minds and adopt the amendment that I have moved; namely, that the present seat of Grayndler be called Lang. 
I do not want to go into some of the skulduggery that went on over this distribution, but one only had to look at the electoral map to see that the proposed seat of Lowe was aligned northsouth whereas most of the other seats were aligned east-west. I again suggest that pressures were applied in the first distribution proposal to have the seat of Lowe retained and the name of Lowe retained. Lowe was one of the seats that should have been abolished if this distribution had been carried out correctly. If it had been, we would not be in the present situation. I ask all honourable members to adopt the amendment that I have moved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 October 1977: 
1 ) How many lone fathers are there in (a) each State, (b) the Northern Territory and (c) the Australian Capital Territory, and how many of them are in receipt of social security pensions. 
Are any special benefits payable to lone fathers; if so, what are the benefits. 
Do any organisations exist whose responsibility it is to advise and assist lone fathers; if so, what are these organisations. 
What action has been taken by the Government to alleviate the problems of lone fathers. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to Press releases from the Minister numbered IEA 94/77, 95/77 and 96/77 concerning Indo-China refugees but, in particular, to statements in those releases about a far reaching and comprehensive refugee policy; of strict screening, medical and quarantine controls and the adoption of a humanitarian and compassionate attitude towards refugees. I ask: What is the total number of refugees to come to Australia from Indo-China? How many are boat people? How many have been refused entry? Has the Minister received reports from any source that among other things charitable organisations cannot satisfy the demands on them from those refugees for furniture, food and clothing; that hospitals in the vicinity of centres accommodating Indo-China refugees are treating some of them for venereal disease, scabies and even leprosy? If so, does this indicate that the Government has broken its promises to national and international organisations and handed over its responsibilities to charitable organisations and State health authorities? If the Minister has not received any reports, will he check and inform the House whether there is any substance in the widely circulating rumours I have mentioned? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Who directed the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board to request additional information concerning tenders for the Australian Bureau of Statistics' computer contract? Why was it necessary for  Mr Low,  the  Chairman  of the Board, to send three separate letters to tenderers, each widening the specifications of the contract? Why was the additional information necessary? Did this request for additional information come only after a letter had been received from and subsequent discussion with the Managing Director of IBM Australia Ltd, whose firm was an unsuccessful tenderer for the original contract? 
I have been approached by the Federal Council of Polish Associations in Australia, supported by the Polish branch of the RAAF Association, the RSL Polish Branch, the Polish Club Ltd, the ExServicemen's Association of the Polish Home Army, the Polish Association in New South Wales and the Polish Educational Society in New South Wales about the welfare problems facing the Polish community in Australia. They have placed their case before the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and also before the Review of Post Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants. These bodies require urgent action on certain matters. They have a problem with regard to the aged. They want a detailed survey of their needs; the establishment of a Polish-oriented psychiatric unit; the urgent appointment of an interpreter to the New South Wales Health Commission as an interim measure until the establishment of the psychiatric unit; the appointment of a full time Polish speaking social worker under the GIA scheme and funding for the Polish Welfare and Information Bureau in New South Wales. They have placed a case before the Minister and substantiated it with certain facts. 
There are now approximately 87,000 Poles in Australia. Approximately 69,000 arrived between the years 1 947 and 1 95 1 . There have been very few arrive since then because very few of them have been allowed to come to Australia. Thirty-three thousand children "have been born to the Polish families that have come to Australia. So, the majority of Poles in Australia have been here for 25 years or more. In the whole of that time, they have been practically a forgotten group. They have been given very little assistance at all by any government. They were refugees when they arrived and had to make their own way in our land. Because they were independent people, they generally looked after their own welfare problems. Now they are an aging community within Australia. About 60 per cent of them are in the 46 to 6 1 years age group and 20 per cent are in the 60 years plus age group. So, for the next 1 5 years or so- perhaps this applies even now- they will have an age problem to face. 
Because of their refugee status when they arrived, because of the age at which they arrived and because of the inter-marriage of Poles with other nationalities, they also have a language difficulty. A lot of the elderly people now have no young children of Polish extract with whom to discuss their problems. So they need, firstly, a survey of their needs and, secondly, the appointment of an interpreter. Because of their refugee status and the problems in Poland during the Second World War and thereafter, there are great psychiatric problems in the Polish community. There are many mental breakdowns. 
Many of the Polish people who came to Australia shortly after the war were single males, who had a professional standing and professional qualifications. But they were unable to have their qualifications recognised within Australia. They have had anxiety problems imposed upon them since their arrival. They urgently need assistance. They have not asked for much during the whole of the time they have been here. As I said, there are about 87,000 of them in Australia. So, at this stage, when they see these ' problems mounting, they ask for assistance. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and also the Minister for Social Security to have a close and compassionate look at the problems of the Polish community within Australia. But, at the same time as they are looking at the problems of the Polish people within Australia, they might as well look at the welfare problems of the whole of the ethnic communities because most ethnic communities here face problems similar to those faced by the Polish community. On behalf of the Polish community, I make this plea to the House. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I speak to the House tonight as the member for Grayndler after having spoken to the House on numerous occasions during 24 years and three months as the member for Lang. 
I regret the abolition of the division of Lang, which was an original electorate at Federation. Why Lang was abolished can be known only by the Distribution Commissioners. Not only was I but also a lot of other people were amazed at its abolition and at the drastic changes made in the boundaries of the proposed seats of Lowe, Sydney and Grayndler after objections to the original proposals. It is reasonable to assume that if this Government can interfere with, alter and cancel a recommendation of an independent stores and tender board in the case of a computer tender pressures on Distribution Commissioners by people in this Government can have the desired effect in having boundaries changed to suit an individual or individuals. 
In my 24 years as the Member for Lang I faced 
I I elections. I commend and thank the electors of Lang for their intelligence and good judgment in returning me as their member on each occasion. I made many friends and had a large number of firm and loyal supporters in the abolished Lang electorate. I place on record my thanks and appreciation for their support, assistance and advice during those 24 years. 
The new seat of Grayndler contains 49 per cent of the abolished seat of Evans, 16 per cent of the old Grayndler, 4 per cent of the old Blaxland and 31 per cent of the abolished seat of Lang. Therefore, for the 1977 election I took over 69 per cent of electors that were new to me. It was with some trepidation that I faced election for the twelfth time. My fears were unfounded. The people in the new electorate of Grayndler possess the same sound judgment as did those in the old electorate of Lang. The swing to the Labor Party in the seat of Grayndler registered 4.1 per cent. It was the highest swing to Labor in the State of New South Wales and the second highest in Australia. I thank those new people whom I inherited from the seats of Grayndler, Evans and Blaxland for their support and their confidence. I promise to serve them faithfully and well throughout my term as the member for Grayndler. If it is possible I will try to serve them even better than they were served by my predecessors Fred Daly and Tony Whitlam. 
The electorate of Grayndler has a large number of problems. A large proportion of the population in the electorate of Grayndler comes from other countries. Amongst those people there is a high rate of unemployment. They have their housing difficulties; there is the language barrier; there is the overcrowding in schools within the area; and, above all, there is an insufficiency of English or second-language teachers in all those schools. Some of the schools in the electorate of Grayndler have 43 different nationalities amongst the pupils and, because this Government fails to make available sufficient funds for education, those young boys and girls are unable to get a basic education in English. These are some of the topics that I will have to devote myself to in the life of this Parliament. I promise my constituents in Grayndler that I will do exactly that. I know that the job is in front of me and all members of the Opposition. The policies enunciated in the GovernorGeneral's address to the Parliament give no hope, no consolation, to any person who wants to lift this country of ours out of" the mire into which it has fallen deeper and deeper in the last couple of years. The policies enunciated on behalf of the Government by the Governor-General are unimaginative. They offer no hope for our unemployed, for our manufacturing industries or the health system throughout Australia. Virtually stay-put policies have been enunciated by this Government. So the job is in front of the Opposition in highlighting the continuing failures of this Government to do anything about unemployment and inflation. 
During this debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply many honourable members have commented on the tourist industry, and I want to deal with that topic. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will recall that I was the Minister for Tourism and Recreation from 1972 to 1975 and I was the  Deputy Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism which was appointed in December 1976 and which tabled an interim report in November 1977. That Select Committee has been re-established and the Labor Party has seen fit to elect me again as one of its representatives on that Committee. To my mind the tourist industry has been and is still the most neglected industry in Australia, yet it is an industry which has been described by people who are not prone to giving compliments- such as those on the Industries Assistance Commission- as a relatively efficient industry with sound long term prospects. Very few in the community apart from those engaged in the tourist industry appreciate the tangible and intangible benefits of the tourist industry. That statement applies in particular to many Ministers in this Government as well as many in the previous Labor Administration. It also applies to many of our top public servants, particularly those in a position to give the Government advice on finance and industry matters. 
The tourism committee had prepared for it a report by  Dr John  Pigram and  Dr Malcolm  Cooper of the Geography Department of the University of New England. The report is entitled 'Economic Significance of Tourism to Australia'. Pigram and Cooper admit that there is a lack of statistics and indicators on the subject and therefore they were most cautious in their estimates of the economic significance of tourism to Australia. The report is now a public document and I challenge anybody in the community, particularly the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  to prove the estimates by Pigram and Cooper incorrect. The  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Tourism, the former honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  in tabling the report of the Committee on 3 November 1 977 said: 
It was estimated that the contribution of tourism to gross domestic product in 1 974-75 was $3,300m. 
I interpolate to say that that is about 5.5 per cent of the gross domestic product.  Mr Bonnett  went on to say: 
In 1974-75, governments are estimated to have gained $172m in indirect tax, $ 165m in company tax and $355m in income tax. 
I again interpolate to say that those estimates of tax from the tourist industry represent 4.9 per cent of the total company tax received, 4.3 per cent in indirect tax and 4.6 per cent of the total income tax that was received.  Mr Bonnett  went on to say: 
The advisers also estimated the multiplier effects of tourism. For every dollar generated by tourism a further 25c is generated in the rest of the economy. Similarly for every two direct jobs in tourism one further job is created and an increase in tourism turnover of $ 1 0,000 creates 1 .2 1 jobs. 
It was estimated by the advisers that tourism provided direct fulltime employment for 263,000 persons and indirect employment for 136,760 persons. Tourism also makes a significant contribution to Australia's balance of payments as well as increasing the community's knowledge of Australia and the Australian heritage. 
The advisers considered a number of definitions of what is the tourist industry and what is a tourist, and in the report which I have mentioned on page 7 they say: 
This report recommends that, conceptually, tourists be defined simply as: 
All short-term visitors into an area for any purpose- other than to commute to work, or for purely local travel within the home community, or as travellers in transit. 
By accepting that definition it can be argued that 26 prime industries may be identified as benefiting directly or indirectly through investment from tourism in Australia. The report  lists some  of those industries under these groups: Finance, entertainment, retail, community services and transport. The finance group includes savings banks for personal loans for travel and for the issue of travellers cheques. Industries in the entertainment group include zoos and theme parks, cafes and restaurants, licensed motels, sport and recreation facilities. The retail group includes supermarkets, service stations, motor boats, outboard motors, caravans and tents. The transport group includes buses and trains, road passenger vehicles, railways, ships, air transport and other services. I seek leave to have this extract from pages 1 1 and 12 of the report incorporated in  Hansard.  I obtained the permission of the Minister who was previously at the table to do so. 
Leave granted. 

 The extract read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197803086_40_1.jpg"></graphic>

Many people in the community do not realise the potential benefits of tourism coming under those headings. Tourism makes a contribution to our balance of payments position, to our general economic development, to employment opportunities, to decentralised development, to the community wellbeing and to the extension of the education process and other social benefits. We find that 1.6 per cent of fixed capital expenditure is invested in tourist activities, 10 per cent in manufacturing, 4.8 per cent in mining and 2.4 per cent in agriculture. 
Many honourable members have spoken about penalty rates and their effect on employment in the tourist industry. Let me quote a few statistics from page 36 of the Pigram and Cooper report. In the tourist industry $ 1 ,0 1 3m, or 2.9 per cent of the Australian total wages and salaries bill, was spent on wages and salaries, compared with 24 per cent for the manufacturing industry. In the tourist industry the penalty rate paid to males is $15.24 and to females $4.27, compared with $16.03 paid to males and $3.07 to females in the manufacturing industry. If we look at the average wage, including penalties, we find that a male in the tourist industry receives $146.93, compared with $149.40 in the manufacturing industry. A female in the tourist industry is paid $ 1 1 7.67, compared with $ 1 10 in the manufacturing industry. 
-That was for 1974-75. They are the latest statistical figures that are available. People talk about extravagant payments of penalty rates and wages in the tourist industry but they should look at the facts. They say that the tourist industry is a 7-days a week industry and therefore there should be a loading on a base wage which extends over the seven days of the week. I ask those who espouse that argument to give me the cut-off point, to tell me how far that goes. Would they refuse to pay penalty rates in hotels and motels? Would they refuse to pay them in cafes, restaurants and night clubs? 
Would they refuse to pay them to coach drivers, airline pilots and employees of the airlines and railways? Wages in the tourist industry are no greater than wages paid in any other industry in Australia. 
I quoted the figures and I will mention the hours worked. In the tourist industry the average hours worked on ordinary time are 39.5 and 3.3 hours on overtime, making a total for the week of 42.7 hours. In the manufacturing industry 38.9 hours are worked on ordinary time and 3. 1 hours on overtime, making a total of 42 hours worked. I seek leave to have page 36 of the report incorporated in  Hansard  so that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  can be brought up to date. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197803086_41_2.jpg"></graphic>

I would like to refer to a lot of other points because I have found that reports tabled in the Parliament, particularly those that were tabled at the time this one was tabled, are not read by honourable members. They are not read by the top public servants. Honourable members come into the House and shoot their mouths off without knowing the facts. The honourable member for Wakefield is not the only honourable member who is guilty of that. Australia is suffering from a high rate of unemployment. The tourist industry is predominantly Australian owned and Australian controlled. Therefore it should be encouraged by this Government and by the State governments. At least the State governments are trying to do something. This Government neglected the tourist industry up until 1 972- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This is only the second seat,  Mr Speaker,  but I intend to hold this one for 25 years, the same period as I held the other one. I appreciate very much that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been a very busy man since the last election. Even during that election campaign we found that his time was somewhat taken up in investigating family trusts. Then he had the need to decide that the then Treasurer could no longer be Treasurer and that a young protege should take over. After the election he then spent a good deal of his time in finding a sinecure for his ex-friend, the ex-Governor-General of Australia. After finding that sinecure he then found it necessary, because of the public criticism, to apply pressures to that gentleman in order to get him not to take up his appointment. 
Then came the unfortunate bomb blast at the Sydney Hilton Hotel and the Prime Minister assumed the Chief of Staffs role over the Australian Defence Force, the Commonwealth police, the New South Wales police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation for the rest of the time that the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting was being held in Australia. Recently- this perhaps above all has taken up a good deal of his time- there has been his intrusion into the granting of a lucrative contract for the supply of computers. That contract went to the wrong company. The Prime Minister then blamed his 'stupid' advisers on the Australian Government Stores Supply and Tender Board and on a specially selected permanent heads interdepartmental committee. For the last few weeks the Prime Minister has been spending his time in trying to explain away the action taken by him in cancelling the contract. There is no doubt that this has proved again to the Prime Minister that if you want a job done properly, or more appropriately, improperly, do it yourself. But his activities as a one-man government do not release him from his responsibilities to answer promptly and courteously representations made by members of this House on behalf of respected and long established community organisations. 
Many members of this House have received representations from the State branches and the various sub-branches of the Returned Services League of Australia complaining of the downgrading of the Department of Veterans' Affairs by this Government. I have received a number of individual representations from the New South Wales State branch and also from various sub-branches within my electorate. I have forwarded each of those to the Prime Minister with a personally signed covering letter asking for his comment on the complaint made by this organisation that is used by the Government at every election in order to vilify the Australian Labor Party policies. I have sent these representations to the Prime Minister because this, as I have said, long standing and respected organisation had made these complaints. I received a reply dated 27 February and signed by the Prime Minister. This is what it says in part- this is what I like, the way in which this Government butters up the RSL and other ex-service organisations: 
I have decided that, for the time being,  Mr Garland  will continue to be Minister for Veterans ' Affairs as well as Minister for Special Trade Representations. 
This decision does not mean, of course, any diminution in the Government's interest in the welfare of those who made sacrifices in the defence of our country. 
But there is now no Minister for Veterans' Affairs. What happened to the person who was to have been appointed as Minister for Veterans' Affairs is well known. I am now receiving from the Prime Minister replies to my correspondence. They state: 
By now you will have received my reply to your similar representations on behalf of the Belmore Sub-branch of the Returned Services League of Australia. There is nothing further that I can add to that reply. 
With that acknowledgment there is not a copy of the original reply of 27 February. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement he made in this House on 7 March in which he said that at the Cabinet meetings of 4, 7 and 8 November concern had been expressed regarding questions of propriety associated with the tendering process. Is it a fact that he also said that a committee formed as a result of those meetings had approved the issue of a letter of intent? How does he equate the view of the committee that the Facom Australia Ltd bid should be approved with the view that there may have been serious improprieties? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Australian Amateur Fencing Federation is to conduct the 1979 world fencing championships in Melbourne from 18 to 28 August 1979. 
If so, what is the estimated cost of staging the championships. 
What financial assistance has been promised by (a) the Australian Government and ( b) each State Government 
What is the estimated participation of (a) countries and (b) athletes and officials. 
Does the staging of a world championship sporting contest produce any tangible or intangible benefits for the host country; if so, what are they. 
What financial assistance has been granted to (a) sport, (b) recreation and (c) youth organisations for the encouragement and development of these activities between (i) December 1972 and November 1975 and (ii) since November 1975. 
Will the Government give immediate and favourable consideration to increasing the grant already promised to the Australian Amateur Fencing Federation for the staging of the 1 979 world fencing championships. 
I ask the Treasurer: Is it a fact that while the present Minister for Industry and Commerce was Treasurer a proposed transaction between QBE Insurance Ltd and an overseas group was required to go before the Foreign Investment Review Board? Will the Treasurer make available to the House details of the Foreign Investment Review Board's recommendation and the decision taken by the then Treasurer on that recommendation? 
-Can the Prime Minister tell the House whether the Premier of Queensland has yet surrendered? If so, what are the terms of the peace treaty? 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) How many (a) special rate and (b) other war pensions are being paid to former Australian residents living overseas. 
In what countries are these people living and how many are in each country. 
What is the total cost to the Australian taxpayer of these pensions. 
What are the rules covering the portability of these pensions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
How many schools had a cadet unit when the system was abolished by the Whitlam Government. 
Which schools had units and what was the strength of each unit. 
How many schools now have cadet units. 
Which are the schools and what is the strength of each unit. 
Does he still hold the view that funds provided for school cadet units are an efficient and economic use of taxpayers 'money. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What are the future plans for the Lady Gowrie Red Cross Nursing Home at Gordon, N.S.W. 
2 ) How long has the Home been in operation. ( 3 ) By whom is it used. 
By whom is it financed and administered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) How many (a) age and (b) invalid pensions are being paid to former Australian residents living overseas. 
In what countries are these people living and how many are in each country. 
What is the total cost to the Australian taxpayer of these pensions. 
What are the rules covering the portability of Australian social security pensions. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Yesterday the Minister referred to his Department being responsible for a significant blemish in its handling of North West Cape base matters. Who were responsible for this breakdown in responsibility to the Government and what action has been taken against them? Will the Minister conduct an exhaustive inquiry to establish how widespread this failure to inform the Government is within the Department, and take action to bring the Department under ministerial control? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) How many fluctuations have occurred in the value of the Australian dollar since December 1975. 
What was the extent of each of these fluctuations and the date on which each occurred. 
Who makes the decision to revalue the Australian dollar. 
What is the basis on which a revaluation is made. 
) What was the official exchange value of the Australian dollar for the currencies of (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom, (c) Canada, (d) Japan, (e) the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  (0  West Germany and (g) the People's Republic of China (i) in December 1975 and (ii) as at 4 April 1 978. 
-The Opposition has been forced to move an amendment in respect of this Bill to show that the Government again has failed to fulfil its promises to our ex-servicemen. This Bill is another example of the Government paying only lip service to its oftrepeated assertion about the great debt of gratitude we owe our ex-service men and women and the serving members of our defence forces. In this Bill, for the first time, a fee is levied on applications for loans under the defence service homes scheme. The total funds again have been reduced and the qualifying period for a loan for serving members of the forces has been extended by over 100 per cent. The defence service homes scheme, which was known previously as the war service homes scheme, has always been a politically administered scheme rather than an efficiently and economically administered scheme. Governments of all complexions have always placed value on the votes of our serving personnel and our ex-servicemen rather than seek value for taxpayers' money spent on the requirements of eligible ex-service men and women. An examination of the scheme clearly shows this. 
The scheme came into operation in March 1919, as part of the system of repatriation benefits, with the aim of satisfactorily securing the reinstatement to civilian life of members of the Australian Imperial Force. The Defence Service Homes Act now covers veterans from World War II and from other designated campaigns, for example, the Korean War. From 1973 exservice men or women who had three years continuous regular or national service in the defence forces were covered. One purpose of this Bill is to extend the period of qualifying service to six years for full time service subject to a commitment to render further full time service. 
This Bill introduces a fee for obtaining a loan. It extends from three years to six years, subject to a commitment to render further full time service, the eligibility provisions for serving members of the armed forces. Continual changes have been made to the defence service homes scheme since 1919. The scheme now has become a hotchpotch. The policy objectives have been changed on a number of occasions. The repatriation concept of 1919 gave way to a reward for war service. Recently it was extended to retain and attract regular serving personnel. The present aims and objectives of the scheme appear to be to reward those who served their country in time of war, to attract and retain regular servicemen in peacetime, to recognise the significant contribution made to national defence by servicemen who undertake full time service of a substantial duration and to compensate regular service men and women for the considerable disadvantages they suffer in acquiring a permanent home when compared with other members of the community. 
I am absolutely certain that nobody in this House would quarrel with the reward for service concept for our ex-service men and women and the serving members of our regular forces. Originally, the loan granted to returned servicemen was more or less sufficient to purchase a home at an interest rate slightly less than the long term housing interest rates of the day. Today the maximum loan of $15,000 is hardly sufficient to meet 50 per cent of the purchase price of a threebedroom home. The present interest rates are 3.75 per cent on the first $12,000, over a period of 32 years, and 7.25 per cent on the additional $3,000, again over a period of 32 years. That means that the average loan is being repaid at an interest rate of 4.5 per cent, which is significantly below long term interest rates. There have been three changes. There has been a change to the concept of why war service homes were introduced. There has been an extension of the scheme to various serving personnel and now to the regular serving personnel. There has been a change to the concept of interest rates and the value of the loan that was made available. 
I suggest that it is being done by this Government, and that it was done by the Labor Government when it was in office, in order not to touch one of the holy cows. 
I believe that because of our economic situation at the moment there is a need to look at all schemes that have been operating to make certain that they have not just grown like Topsy and that they have not just been added to or subtracted from without taking into account the value for money concept of the scheme itself. There has also been very wide variation over the years in the amount of money made available for fulfilling the policy objectives of the defence service homes scheme. Comparisons over recent years- I have taken these from the Budget 
Papers for the last few years- show that in 1975- 76 the net payment for defence service homes was $47. 9m with an additional interest subsidy of $24.5m, making a total of $72.4m. In 1976- 77 the net payment was $31m and the interest subsidy was $23. lm, making a total of $54. lm. The total amount dropped from $72m to $54m. In 1977-78 the net payment was $20.7m. and the interest subsidy was $24.6m, making a total of $45.3m. The total amount dropped from $54m to $45m. In 1978-79 the estimated net payment to the Defence Service Homes Corporation is $ 10m and the interest subsidy is $25.6m, making a total of $35.6m. The figure has dropped from $45m in 1977-78 to $35m for this year. That is a decrease of $9.7m on the 1977-78 allocation and a decrease of $36.8m on the allocation for 1975-76. 
There is no need for me to remind the House that 1975-76 was the year in which the last Labor Budget was handed down. Under the Labor Government the Defence Service Homes Corporation was getting $70.24m, and under this Government- the Government that says that defence is paramount and that its gratitude to our ex-servicemen is unbounded- the figure this year has been reduced to $35.6m. That represents a decrease of $36.8m over the last three years. The capital advance to the defence service homes scheme this year is $10m. In 1975-76 under the Labor Government the capital advance was $47.9m. In other words, this Government has decreased by $37.9m the capital advance to the Defence Service Homes Corporation. Again, so much for this Government's concern to keep its promise to our ex-servicemen and women and the regular members of our armed forces. 
Let me take the Budget allocation for the Defence Service Homes Corporation a little further. This year, $68. 8m from repayments of principal by borrowers will be retained in the trust fund. If one adds the $10m capital advance granted in the Budget that makes a total for lending purposes of $78.8m. That figure of $78.8m, when compared with the figure of $90m for 1977-78, represents a decrease of $1 1.2m. In addition, the Defence Service Homes Corporation is expected to pay to the Consolidated Revenue Fund $6m, estimated to be the proceeds from the sale of surplus building blocks and land, and further repayments of $7.8m for other reasons. The end result is that whilst the capital advance and the interest subsidy is shown to be $35.6m, the repayments to Consolidated Revenue of $13. 8m reduce the effective amount to $2 1.8m and even less if one or two other transactions are taken into account. 
There is no doubt in my mind nor in the collective minds of the members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure that the defence service homes scheme is due for a thorough overhaul. I draw the attention of the House to the Committee's report on the scheme which was tabled in this House in May of this year. The Committee is chaired by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and is an all-party Committee. The Committee worked very hard in preparing this report. In the opening paragraph of the report the Committee says: 
This report represents the first in-depth and searching examination of the Defence Service Homes Scheme (DSHS ) which came into operation in 1 9 1 9, almost 60 years ago. 
The Committee's major recommendations are as follows: 
the Government appoint a suitably qualified person from outside the Public Service to assess the relative effectiveness of programs designed to attract persons into and retain them in the Services and to devise methods to enable continuing measurement or assessment of the effectiveness of these programs . . . 
the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs define and explain the objectives of the Defence Service Homes Scheme to the Parliament . . . 
the long title of the Defence Services Homes Act 1918 be amended to read as follows: An Act to assist eligible persons to acquire a residential dwelling . . . 
the Defence Service Homes Act 1918 be amended to allow eligible persons to choose to receive either a housing loan or a cash grant which would also be used to acquire a residential dwelling . . . 
The Committee made 13 recommendations in all. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  the remaining nine recommendations which appear on page 6 of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure into the defence service homes scheme. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

the size of the grant to be determined in the legislation and reviewed periodically. (Paragraph 107 (c) ). 
there be no application fee for those who receive grants. (Paragraph 107(d) ). 
the Government prepare for distribution a pamphlet on the new options available to eligible persons. (Paragraph 107(e) ). 
that the Minister for Finance determine that the interest rate payable by the Defence Service Homes Corporation on its total accumulated capital be the current long-term bond rate, so that the Interest Subsidy item in Appropriation Bill No. 1 will in future reflect the full economic cost of the concessional interest rates applied to DSHS loans. (Paragraph 110). 
the numbers of staff used in the processing of new applications in the Defence Service Homes Corporation State Officers of Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania be reduced by 8 staff, 4 staff and 2 staff respectively. (Paragraph 127). 
the Defence Service Homes Corporation undertake a cost-effectiveness study to determine whether magnetic tape units should be used- to obtain cost savings by sharing the computer facility with departments; and as an alternative to microfiche in registry work. (Paragraph 138). 
1. the Department of Veterans' Affairs, the Department of Finance and the Public Service Board undertake a costeffectiveness study of alternative methods of collecting repayments from borrowers. (Paragraph 148). 
annual reports of the Defence Service Homes Corporation include information on unit costs of processing new applications and maintaining securities in each State Office and information on the number of man-days taken to process new applications in each State Office. ( Paragraph 1 6 1 ). 
appropriate changes be made to relevant legislation to allow persons who obtain loans under the Defence Service Homes Scheme to insure their properties with the company of their choice. (Paragraph 163). 
I thank the House. Recommendation 4 is an absolutely new approach to the defence service homes scheme and deserves serious and urgent consideration by the Government. The cost savings are emphasised by the Committee throughout the report. In paragraph 108 on page 23 of the report the Committee says: 
The Committee has reached these conclusions after a most careful and comprehensive evaluation of the DSHS program. Some of the figuring is based on broad judgments and this could lead some to question the validity of the conclusions. What should be emphasised and what should not be lost sight of, however, is that the optional grant provides governments and the Parliament with the opportunity of converting significant administration costs into benefits for recipients and savings for taxpayers. It is surely axiomatic that such an opportunity, when accepted, would make public sector spending more productive and therefore result in a better allocation of resources. 
The case presented by the Committee is set out fully in its report. The figures are there for all honourable members and all ex-service organisations to study. The Committee has found that a number of persons who are eligible under the scheme have not taken up their loans for one reason or another. Many people cannot see their way clear to finding the gap between the $ 1 5,000 available by way of the loan and the price of a house. 
It would certainly help those people in many directions. They would still have to find the differences from some other source. Perhaps the cash grant would enable them to bridge the deposit gap. The Committee was thinking about ex-servicemen and exservicewomen and the regular members of our armed forces when it made its recommendation. 
I ask this House, and the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  in particular, to make certain that this report is given full and thorough investigation and consideration and that immediate action be taken to implement some, if not all, of the recommendations. The implementation of the recommendations will save taxpayers' money, ensure more efficient use of resources and establish a better scheme for assisting eligible persons to acquire a residential dwelling. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker, but it goes even further than that. Yesterday an accusation was made against me which impugnes my honour and integrity and alleges that I committed a grave impropriety. In answer to a question from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
At the time, there was one allegation running around. The allegation was- I repeat it but I make no charge and give it no support- as I heard it, that the then honourable member for Lang, the honourable member for Grayndler, had got a set of New South Wales electoral maps earlier than he should have. 
I did not make the explanation yesterday because I wanted to check the record to make certain that my recollection was not clouded. I now solemnly and sincerely declare that I did not receive, inspect, examine or see any electoral map prior to the date of its general release to all members of the Parliament. I further declare that I make this statement freely, openly and under no duress from any person. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on5 April 1978: 
1 ) How many schemes involving employee subsidies are at present being financed by the Australian Government and what are the eligibility provisions under each scheme. 
Do these subsidies cover only job-creation schemes or do they also apply to jobs which would normally be available. 
How many employers in Australia are claiming a subsidy and how many employees are covered under each scheme. 
What is the annual cost of each scheme. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Labor Government make a grant of $200,000 to the Theatre Royal Board, Hobart in 1974-75 for the construction of a new building. 
2 ) What were the terms and conditions of the grant. 
What amount has been paid to the Theatre Royal Board. 
Has the new building been completed; if not, when is completion expected. 
5 ) What is the estimated final cost of the building. 
Will any further grant be made either by the Federal or State Government; if not, why not. 
I cannot understand how a short Bill, such as the Departure Tax Collection Bill 1978, after having been through the House, should now have six amendments proposed to it. It is a clear indication that the Government did not have an idea of what it was doing when it proposed the departure tax. It is a clear indication that the thoughts of the Government at the end of the Cabinet discussions on the Budget were: 'We have spent that much money; where do we get some money from?'. It decided to impose a departure tax. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  said that the Government will notify the industry how the tax will be collected. All the Government was doing in imposing this departure tax was looking for a source of revenue. 
At this stage I merely mention the fact that the matter of a departure tax was raised before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism on 16 May 1978. From my experience I know that that is the time when departments are under the great surveillance of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance and are negotiating how much they will spend and what needs to be done. The matter was raised before that Committee. It was suggested by a  Mr Neil  Leiper and a  Mr Lloyd  Stear, both lecturers at the Travel and Tourism School of Business and Administrative Studies at the Sydney Technical College. That Committee was interested in the theory because Leiper and Stear had suggested that in order to get some finances to promote international tourism to Australia a tax of between $10 and $20 should be imposed. The Committee was interested enough to ask several departments, as well as Qantas Airways Ltd, to comment on the suggestion. That was at the time when departments, particularly the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance, were looking at expenditure and sources of money. 
As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said a few moments ago, this is a general revenue tax. It is imposed for the simple reason that the Government wants money from somewhere. At the same time the amount of money being made available to the Australian Tourist Commission was upgraded by $l.lm. Revenue coming to the Commonwealth, to Consolidated Revenue from this departure tax will be about $10m this year and, in a full year, $13m. I hazard a guess that there is an underestimation of the revenue that will come in this year and in future years. I just cannot follow a government that does not know why it has put a few lines in a Budget Speech without knowing how that money will be collected, what effect it will have on tourism in Australia and in which areas that money will be used. It surprised me immensely. I cannot say that I like doing this to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. He is a very gentle fellow and quite a likeable fellow. I believe that, instead of that Minister being present now in this chamber, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  should be here. 
-And/or the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  as the honourable member for Hughes suggests. As the honourable member suggested earlier, this is another taxation measure. So the Treasurer and/or the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who has a tertiary division in his Department, are supposed to control tourism. If a departure tax is to be put on all people over 18 years of age, with certain exemptions, who leave Australia, surely the money collected should be directed in some way towards the development of tourism in Australia. 
I only wish I was still the Minister Assisting the Treasurer because I could tell the Government that, if another couple of million dollars was spent on promoting Australia overseas, more than $ 1 3m would come back in foreign currency. The Government under this Bill will charge, I would judge, about 600,000 or 700,000 Australians- after allowing for travellers under 18 years of age and other people who are exempted- $10 each in Australian currency. However, one million or  Vi  million foreign tourists would bring foreign currency into this country. In the year just concluded we lost something like $300m in Australian currency from Australian tourists who travelled overseas. It is no good the Treasury telling me that the travel gap does not have any effect. The travel gap is increasing. We have to face up to the fact that very few people in very few countries know anything about our tourist destinations and our tourist attractions. They will not know this until such dme as we start to promote ourselves overseas. 
During the second reading debate we were told that little countries like Fiji and New Zealand spend four dmes, ten times, and 15 times as much money on tourism as we are spending. I happen to be proud of Australia. I reckon we have more natural attractions than most other countries. We should be selling ourselves internationally to attract people to Australia. We should be selling Australia not only because tourism brings foreign currency into Australia but also because it fosters good will. Tourism allows a friendly face to face confrontation of one nation with another. Let  President  Carter have his special little three weeks' holidays at Camp David. Only three people from different countries really got to know each other during the President's latest stay at Camp David. Bring out a hundred thousand Japanese, bring out people from all the other nations and let them see that we are a gentle nation generally and that we have many things to offer. Let these people bring their foreign currency to Australia. Let us foster good will in the world. The departure tax, which is the subject of this Bill, was a throwaway line in a Budget Speech. It was a suggestion stolen by Treasury and the Department of Finance and perhaps the Department of Industry and Commerce - 
I am rather amazed that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  did not give any explanation for moving these amendments. Clause 8 states: 
1 ) Where an authorized officer- 
has reasonable grounds for believing that a person is about to depart from Australia for another country; 
The Minister moved to insert the words 'or for an external Territory' after the words 'another country'. In sub-clause (2) of clause 8 the Minister has moved that the words 'or for an external Territory' be inserted after the word 'country'. The Minister has given no explanation. I can judge only that the drafting is bad, that the throw-away departure tax in the Budget had not been thought through and that when these Bills were brought into the House they had not even been considered by the Government in any serious way. I ask the Minister whether he would be good enough to tell the Committee why these two amendments are necessary. 
I merely want to know why it was not foreseen. Do the external Territories include Lord Howe Island and the Cocos (Keeling) Islands? Why was not that difficulty foreseen? Why were not those things picked up before the Bill came into this chamber? My case rests. This was not a considered Bill at all. 
-This Bill was brought into the Parliament a couple of weeks ago and the clause we are discussing is labelled 'Special arrangements for payment of tax'. I would have always thought that a clause with such a label would have really been thought out, but within a couple of weeks - 
Yes. I am referring to the amendment which begins with the words 'After clause 1 1 , page 4, insert the following clause '. 
-Might I say,  Mr Chairman,  that you had better now ask your Clerks to do some label watching. I am talking about amendment (5) which starts with the words 'After clause 11, page 4, insert the following clause'. The side note to clause 11 reads: 'Special arrangements for payment of tax'. Within a couple of weeks of the Bill's introduction we have a Minister bringing into this chamber an amendment which commences with the words 'After clause 11, page 4, insert the following clause', on the right hand side of which appear the words: Tax stamps and exemption stamps'.  Mr Chairman,  you might have travelled around the world as often as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  but have you ever had to buy a departure tax stamp in any country you have been in? It is an incorrect question to ask you,  Mr Chairman.  I ought to ask it of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  the Prime Minister, the Acting Prime Minister or the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland).  Have they ever had to go to a department of immigration in any country and ask for a special tax stamp, when they could not speak Japanese, Italian or French? We 'foreigners in Australia' are expecting all those people who do not speak English, or is it Austraiian, to find out where our Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs office is. Alternatively, we expect overseas travellers to go to an airport, where there are hundreds of people and many confusing signs, to buy the stamps. We are so narrow in our thinking in Australia that signs in my electorate are not displayed in the Greek language or the Arabic language. Nowhere in any of our international airports do we find a sign telling people where the immigration office or the customs office is situated. The Government has produced a monster in this Bill just to get in revenue $10 million this financial year and $ 1 3 million in a full year. 
Let me take the position up until 1980. The imposition of the $ 10 departure tax for each traveller, allowing for all the exemptions, will raise $ 18.9m in 1980. Now, the Committee is told that a new clause will be added after Clause 1 1. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  made a statement before the debate on the Bill commenced. It is the first time in the life of the Parliament that I can remember when a Minister has ever had to explain what he said in his second reading speech before the debate on the Bill even started in the Parliament. This is a complete and utter revenue raising tax. Will this Government be genuine and decent? Will honourable members opposite be fair and support a Prime Minister who says: 'We are more honourable than any member of the Opposition. We always tell you the truth. We would not raise loans from Arabic countries. We will only raise them' - 
-No, not even over breakfast. But it would be possible to raise a loan over breakfast from the Baillieus. It would be possible to raise loans over breakfast on the short-term money market anywhere in Australia. This is just a revenue raising Bill. It has nothing to do with tourism. It has nothing to do with the number of Australians who leave our country. What irks me most is that special arrangements have had to be made for the payment of the tax. After introducing the Bill and it being before the Parliament for a couple of weeks, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has had to add to his second reading speech. I noticed the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has just arrived - 
I ask the Treasurer to remember that I have had three years' experience as Minister assisting the Treasurer. I ask him to remember also that I held that position for the presentation of three Budgets. The Treasurer has just presented his first Budget. 
-How long has the Treasurer been in the Parliament?  Mr Chairman,  how long has he been in the Parliament? 
-One of the members of the National Country Party said that he has been here for the terms of three Treasurers. Not one of our Treasurers was dismissed because he had a family trust. 

 Honourable members interjecting- 


 -Mr Chairman, I am just waiting for all the galahs to finish interjecting. I do not want the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to explain the departure tax. I want one of the senior Ministers in the Government to tell me whether he can contradict the figures that I am about to give. We have been told that the tax will raise $ 10m in the remainder of this year and $ 13m in a full year. I have here the estimates of Qantas Airways Ltd based on the short-term arrivals and departures by air only. In 1980, the $10 a head tax will raise $ 18.9m. In 1985, it will raise $24.9m. In 1988 it will raise $28. 8m.  Mr Treasurer  - 
-That is the estimate of Qantas. I have taken those figures directly from one of the airline's submissions. Can the Treasurer correct those figures or is he prepared to admit that this is just another revenue raising tax? There was a throwaway of $ 1.1m to the Australian Tourist Commission in the Budget. If we make an allowance for the amount of money that it will cost to sell the tax stamps, we can see that the Treasury will finish up with about $2m in its coffers when $10m to $13m is being collected in the form of revenue. 
I wish to respond to that new matter that has just been introduced. I have before me copies of the second reading speeches- both of them- made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  In the second reading speech on the Bill that we are discussing now- the Departure Tax Collection Bill 1978- the Minister says: 
The travel industry and travellers will be given adequate notice of the date upon which the legislation comes into operation. 
He goes on to say: 
It is intended to develop arrangements for payment of the tax which will not unduly inconvenience travellers. I will mention details of the method of collection after discussions with the travel industry. 
The method of collection of the departure tax comes up for discussion today almost unannounced. The Minister walked into the chamber and announced to the Parliament the method of collection of the tax. Yet the Opposition is supposed to work it out.  Mr Minister,  the words which I have read were uttered by you. I was at a travel conference on Monday and Tuesday of this week with a member of your Party and I happened to have a copy of the second reading speeches on both of these Bills and of the Bills themselves. I showed them to four or five people at that travel conference, but nobody had seen them. I ended up coming away from the conference without the second reading speeches and Bills, because nobody at that travel research conference had even seen the Bills. For heaven's sake,  Mr Minister,  do not start treating this Parliament the same way as Fraser is treating you. 
-Can we have it written into  Hansard  that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  is not going to doublecross us again? Can we have it written into  Hansard  that the social legislation that is about to come before the House will be given due and proper consideration by the members of this House? This House is the House that represents the people. Members of this House have the closest contact with the men and women throughout Australia. This Government will allow the other chamber to talk on and on and on about this legislation. We are going to have a cognate debate of the Social Services Amendment Bill. We are going to have a cognate debate of the National Health Bill, and the National Health Bill and the social services amendments that were announced in the Budget are now the cause of this Government 's unpopularity. 
In most of the electorates in New South Wales approximately 60 to 75 per cent of the people voted for the Labor Government last Saturday. I want to know why the Minister for Primary Industry, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the back bench members of this Government in this House are all running scared. You talk a lot about freedom of speech and the rights of individuals, but you are taking away from the members on this side the right to express an opinion on why you have put a means test on pensioners over seventy. You have changed the health scheme so that nobody in Australia, including the Minister himself, understands what is in front of the people of Australia after 1 November 1978. 
Why is the Government running scared? Is it afraid to allow us to express our opinions here in this House? As I said, it has allowed the House that it used in 1975 to get rid of a duly and properly elected government to talk on and on and on. Those people in that House have to face the electors only once every six years. This is the House that counts, and the Government is now trying to push through a motion abolishing the 1 1 o'clock rule so that it can start to administer by exhaustion. During the Committee stage of the legislation I judge that it will continually move the gag. I ask: Will the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  who is at the table, give a clear undertaking that we will not sit through until 3 a.m. or 4 a.m. in order to get this legislation through? I issue this threat: If we do sit through, I will see that every rule is pulled out of the Standing Orders in order to frustrate this Government in its efforts to take away the rights of members on this side of the House, the members of the House of Representatives, who truly and properly represent the people of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Has he received many communications expressing confusion and uncertainty as to what course to take with respect to health insurance after 1 November 1 978. 
Has he admitted that the new health insurance scheme is only on trial for a period of 8 months. 
Will the Government give an undertaking that any person who forgoes private insurance after 1 November 1978 will obtain immediate cover should it be necessary or advantageous for that person to return to it at the end of, or at any time during, the trial period. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he has been made aware of the collapse of yet another travel agency. If so, is it a fact that many of the people involved are pensioners and stand to lose substantial amounts of money as well as having their long planned holiday destroyed? When does the Government intend to keep its promise, made on innumerable occasions since 1971, to register travel agents? As rumoured, has the intended legislation been placed in the limbo of forgotten things, again demonstrating the Government's utter contempt for the interests of consumers? 
I have no intention of keeping the House for very long, but I do wish to express the disappointment felt by the returned soldiers on this side of the House at the treatment that has been meted out by this Government to those men and women of our armed forces who have served in the number of wars in which we have been involved. The point that I wish to make is that the Opposition has been regarded as being anti-defence and amireturned soldier for a great number of years. I remind the House and the returned servicemen's organisations that between 1972 and 1975 more benefits were granted to our returned servicemen and women than had been granted for many years previously. One of the Labor Government Budgets- I think it was the 1974 Budgetcontained 23 of the 25 proposals put to Cabinet by the then Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Wheeldon,  who was a most benign Minister. 
-The honourable member for Hughes reminds me that at the same time we did a great deal towards assisting returned servicemen to obtain more value from the war service homes scheme. It was the Labor Government that increased the maximum amount of loan from, I think, approximately $9,000 to $15,000. In the 25 years that I have been in this House my attention has been continually drawn to the war heroes who represent the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. At any main function which is held at Parliament House we see representing the Government our returned servicemen of the Air Force, Navy and Army. They have on their Returned Services League badges and they wear their ribbons on their chests. But when it comes to the real crunch, when it comes to their doing something for our ex-servicemen and women, we find instead that many of the entitlements granted to our returned servicemen and women are being taken away. 
In this Bill we have a classic instance of that. The automatic acceptance of tuberculosis as a war-caused disability has been in operation since shortly after the end of the Second World War. Now that benefit has been taken away. Tuberculosis is now put into the same category as any other war-caused disability. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the House that it is only a matter of 10 years or so since our young men were sent to fight in Vietnam. Some of those young men are likely to find at any time that their lungs have been affected, because the country in which they were fighting is a country which is noted for tuberculosis. We can see what is happening to the refugees who are coming here from those countries. Many of them have to be hospitalised immediately on arrival on our shores because they are suffering from tuberculosis. That is particularly so in the case of those people known as the ' boat people '. 
The same thing could happen to Vietnam veterans who were sent by a government of the political persuasion of the present Government to fight in a war which is now recognised as being a war that should never have taken place and a war into which Australia should never have been drawn. The great humanitarians opposite, the people who wave the flag on every possible occasion and say how wonderful it is that men and women are prepared to sacrifice themselves for our country in time of war, are now taking away the automatic acceptance of tuberculosis amongst ex-servicemen as being war caused. I only wish that honourable members on the other side of the House would realise that the time has now passed when they could say how loyal they were and how wonderful it was that our exservicemen and women had been prepared to go away and fight for our country, while gradually dwindling away the benefits that have been available to our returned soldiers, sailors and airmen. 
I remind the House also that during the term of the Labor Government, between 1972 and 1 975, we granted automatic acceptance of cancer for hospital and medical treatment. That had not been done by previous Liberal and Country Party governments over a period of 23 years. I remind the House and all returned servicemen that at the same time as this Government says that it will never abolish the Department of Veterans' Affairs it is gradually grinding it down by cutting down on the benefits being made available to our returned soldiers, sailors and airmen. This is a classic example of the hypocrisy of the Government not only in relation to our returned servicemen but also in relation to the community generally. Government members do a lot of talking but they are not much good at taking action. The Government has retained the Department of Veterans' Affairs but it is cutting down on the benefits that are available to our returned servicemen. Just recently the Government introduced a provision which makes it essential that our permanent serving members of the forces serve six years, with a guarantee of extra service, before they are entitled to a loan under the Defence Service Homes Act. 
It was designed for no such purpose. If the honourable member for Fadden looks at the history of the defence service homes scheme he will find that he knows nothing about the Defence Service Homes Act or the War Service Homes Act, as it used to be called. The scheme was designed to help people in the forces to get a home, but that scheme has gone by the board over a period of years. We cannot attract sufficient men and women into our permanent Army, Navy and Air Force. One of the reasons why we introduced the three-year period of service in the permanent defence forces as the qualifying period for a war service home loan was to encourage people to remain in the Services. 
-Certainly we cut out national service. The present Government has been in office for three years now and it has not reintroduced it. It was a government of the same political persuasion as the present Government which introduced national service training and which introduced also conscription for the purpose of sending our boys to Vietnam. The present Government has not reintroduced conscription and it has not reintroduced compulsory national service training. The honourable member for Fadden should stop beating his gums; he should take some action. I can understand the honourable member for Fadden beating his gums because I found out just recently that he is a great fan of the local pop groups. The Government has shown once again that while it talks about the need to pay a tribute to our exservicemen and women, when it comes to the crunch it does very little about the matter. The only thing in this Bill that can be commended is that it will now allow representatives of exservice organisations to be on the determining authority of the Department of Veterans' Affairs. The Government stands condemned for its poor treatment of our ex-servicemen and women in this Bill, the same as it stands condemned for its poor treatment of the pensioners of Australia in the legislation that just recently passed through this House. 
-Today the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  answered a question which I asked about the registration of travel agents. The answer that the Minister gave left no doubt in my mind, and I firmly believe in the minds of many members of this Parliament, that the intended legislation covering travel agents has been scrapped or at least has been pigeon holed to gather dust until another large travelling agency folds. This is another turnabout, another broken promise. But this one is more blatant than most that have been perpetrated by this Government in the two years 10 months that it has been in government. This broken promise has not only let the tourist industry and the Parliament down but, most importantly,  His Excellency  the Governor-General, appointed by this Government, has been led up the garden path. If  His Excellency  happens to be listening I know that he will recall that on his first appearance in this Parliament in his high office, on the occasion of the opening of the 3 1st Parliament on 21 February 1978- a matter of 8 months ago- he said on behalf of  Her  Majesty: 
In the interests of protecting the travelling public, legislation will be introduced to license travel agents. 
I suggest that before His Excellency makes any more speeches on behalf of this Government he should obtain a sworn declaration that promises to be made by him on behalf of the Government will be kept. 
Let me give the House a brief history of the promised legislation for the registration of travel agents. The first discussion between the Australian Government arid the Australian Federation of Travel Agents on the licensing of travel agents took place in January 1971. This followed publicity given to the question of licensing when the then Federal Minister in charge of Tourist Activities,  Senator Wright,  called for a report on the organisation of the travel agency industry following an incident involving a charter flight for migrants. That was in August 1970. A Bill was subsequently drawn up for presentation to the Parliament. However, following the transfer of the portfolio to  Mr Howson  the question of Federal legislation was referred to the Tourist 
Ministers Council, where there was little progress for approximately 12 months. In July 1972, when Travel House of Australia collapsed with wide ramifications for the public, four StatesNew South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania- indicated that they would immediately introduce State legislation. The AFTA opposed the hasty introduction of ill prepared legislation, particularly on the basis that the possibility of six differing pieces of State legislation could be chaotic. 
Following representations to the respective Ministers all but New South Wales agreed to withhold any action pending the introduction of satisfactory Federal legislation. The New South Wales Government introduced legislation but it has not proved satisfactory. Without going into the details, it has brought with it a number of problems for the industry. Further discussions between the industry and the Australian Government took place over 1974 and 1975 and a Bill was presented to Parliament in the latter half of 1975 by me. The Bill passed through the House of Representatives, but the double dissolution of the Parliament brought progress to a halt. Early in 1976 with the change of government  Senator Cotton,  the then Minister for Industry and Commerce who became responsible for the Australian Tourism Commission, indicated that if the industry still required legislation for the registration of travel agents he was prepared to reopen discussions, particularly after the collapse of Four Seasons Travel Agency and the near collapse of AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd. The industry agreed that there was a need for Federal legislation and talks had been held with the industry, the industry being represented by the Australian Federation of Travel Agents, the international airlines, the overseas shipping companies and the Australian National Travel Association. I am assured that the following organisations from the travel industry support the introduction of uniform travel agents legislation: The Australian Federation of Travel Agents, the Australian Road Transport Federation, the Australian Hotels Association, the Motor Inn and Motel Association of Australia, MFAHomestead and many others. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Has he had any reports from the Commonwealth Employment Service that some employers and companies refuse to employ persons who have come to Australia from particular countries, i.e., Lebanon and Yugoslavia, even when they are Australian citizens. 
) If so, what action has he taken to ensure that no person from another country suffers discrimination in employment because of his nationality. 
) If not, will he make inquiries to see whether some employers and companies follow a policy of discrimination and will he take action to abolish the practice if this is the case. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) Did the Treasurer say in his Budget Speech that as a result of the Budget, waiting periods for Home Savings Grants would increase. 
Did the Budget Statements indicate waiting periods of up to 9 months. 
Will savings accumulated during the waiting period be taken into account in determining the amount of the grant. 
Is the effective date for determination of the amount of the grant the date of: (a) contracting for purchase, (b) application for the grant, (c) consideration for eligibility or (d) some other date. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
When will he provide answers to my questions Nos 819 and 820, placed on notice on 5 April 1 978. 
-My remarks on this Bill will deal almost solely with the provisions relating to efficiency audits. I hope that some, if not all, of my comments will reinforce the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  The Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration recommended that the Auditor-General should have the responsibility for auditing the efficiency of Commonwealth departments and statutory authorities. In paragraph 3.6.1, under the heading 'Efficiency Audits' the report states in part: 
The Commission proposes, therefore, that there should be a regular program of efficiency audits in which departmental performance will be assessed. These assessments should be  so designed that they would bring before ministers, Cabinet and Parliament both the assessment itself and the data on which it is based. 
The Commission went on further to say in paragraph 3.6.7: 
The Public Service Board has shown great reluctance to assess the performance of departments and agencies. Indeed, for some years, no section 17 examinations were made and, now that they have been resumed they are seen as exercises in assisting and improving management rather than in auditing or assessing performance. 
It goes on further to say: 
Furthermore, the report of the team is treated as strictly confidential to the Department concerned and great care is exercised to preserve this confidentiality. It was only with much reluctance that the Board gave the Commission access to its report, enabling it to study the scope and methods of the inquiries. That scope was found to be extremely narrow. 
In paragraph 3.6.15, the Commission said: 
In all of these respects the Commission believes that there is room for joint studies of financial administration by Treasury and the Departments concerned. Such studies, however, would again not eliminate the need for ex-post audit type examinations conducted by a wholly independent authority. 
In recommendation 8, appearing in paragraph 3.6.20, the Commission stated:  the Commission suggest for the consideration of Parliament: (a) that the role of the Auditor- 
General as an officer of Parliament should be clarified and strengthened; 
that there should be a Parliamentary Committee on administrative efficiency (it is not for us to determine whether this function should bc added to that of the Public Accounts Committee, or another existing committee or whether a new and separate committee should be established for this purpose); 
that the Parliamentary Committee on administrative efficiency should have the same powers to call witnesses as does the Public Accounts Committee. 
On 28 July the Government announced that it had accepted this recommendation in principle. On 7 November 1 977, the then Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters,  Mr Street,  tabled a report of a working party of officials on efficiency audits and foreshadowed legislation to amend the Audit Act to give the Auditor-General the power to conduct efficiency audits. 
On page 2966 of the  Hansard  record of 7 November 1977 the Minister is reported as having said: 
The officials' report leaves open the arrangements for parliamentary consideration of efficiency reports from the Auditor-General. The Chairmen of both the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and the House of Representatives Expenditure Committee have indicated that they would wish to examine the reports, and that they would maintain the closest liaison in any such examination, in order to ensure that there is no unnecessary duplication of examination of departmental efficiency and expenditure. The Government intends to give this procedure a trial. 
I am the  Deputy Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. The  Chairman,  the honourable Kevin Cairns, is unavoidably absent due to illness in his family. I give some opinions of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. I point out that the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration saw the efficiency of the public sector being increased by the development of a system of forward estimates, the delegation of" greater responsibility from the centre- that is, from the central authorities such as Treasury and the Public Service Board- to spending departments, delegation within spending departments to lower levels of officers, and some of this backed up by efficiency audit reports. In short, the report saw efficiency audits and their eventual examination by a parliamentary committee as part of a system of responsibility and accountability in administration. 
The question the Parliament has to ask is this: If the system envisaged in the RCAGA report has not been adopted what is there to take ils place? The ultimate effectiveness of the efficiency audit function must be viewed against the background of an overall system in which the Parliament has a most important role to play in the management and control of expenditure in the public sector. The Parliament does not know what procedures the Executive has or will establish for its consideration of efficiency audit reports. These procedures when known should be communicated both to the committees and to this Parliament as soon as possible. Efficiency audit reports to the Parliament have not been considered by either the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or the House of Representatives Committee on Expenditure, but the Expenditure Committee believes that in considering the role of both those committees in examining efficiency audit reports the following points are relevant: a. The committees should not seek to do the same job as the Auditor-General; b. if the AuditorGeneral's views and those of the department are not the same then the committee can 'arbitrate'; c. otherwise, the major job of the committee should be to ensure that the recommendations or suggestions are being implemented and to check this at a later date as well; and, d. there could also be matters or issues which the AuditorGeneral raises in his report which could form the basis of inquiry by the committee that examines his report. 
The Expenditure Committee 's major concern is with the efficiency audit provisions of the Bill. We should examine this part of the Bill clause by clause. Clause 3, which amends section 2 of the principal Act, contains in proposed sub-section (2) a definition of efficiency audit. Paragraph (a) of proposed sub-section (4) refers to an evaluation of the procedures departments use to determine economy and efficiency in the use of resources, and paragraph (b) refers to an evaluation of whether the functions examined are being carried out in an economical and efficient manner. Since paragraph (a) precedes paragraph (b) the Committee assumes that greater emphasis is placed on (a) than (b). The Committee thinks this emphasis is wrong. It reflects the view of the officials' report which, at page ix, states: 
. much of the efforts of the Auditor-General's staff should be directed towards evaluating the efficiency of managerial control systems. 
This appears to be based on an understanding that if systems are correctly drawn up, if quality staff is employed, if procedures for selecting quality staff are adequate and if salaries are also adequate, efficiency is assured. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  also made that point. While all of this has an attractive, logical base, the Committee believes that, based on its own experience, the primary emphasis of the efficiency audit authority should be to evaluate whether financial and other resources are being used in the most economical and efficient manner. If primary emphasis is placed on evaluating efficiency rather than managerial control systems this will accord better with the provisions of proposed new section 48g (i) which directs the Auditor-General to prepare an annual report on efficiency audits and on the costs of and benefits from such audits. Not only does the Committee think that the order of emphasis should be reversed- that is, paragraph (b) appearing before paragraph (a)- but it also suggests a rewording of proposed sub-section (4) of section 2 as follows: 
an evaluation of whether the financial and other resources used by the body or person in performing the function of that body or person are being used in the most economical and efficient manner; and 
an evaluation of whether the procedures adopted by the body or person to review the economy and efficiency with which that body or person used the financial and other resources are effective or not. 
I now pose several questions so that they may be considered by the Minister before the meeting of the Legislation Committee at which this legislation will be considered. I refer first to clause 9, which proposes a new section 12 in the principal Act. In respect of proposed sub-section (1)1 ask: Why should the Auditor-General draw to the attention of Ministers such matters arising out of the exercise of his powers and the performance of his functions as are in his opinion of sufficient importance to justify him so doing? If he draws matters to the attention of the Minister, will he also inform the Parliament as to the matters he drew to the Minister's attention? 
Concerning paragraph (a) of proposed subsection (2) I ask: Why, in respect of efficiency audits, should the Auditor-General draw certain matters to the attention of Ministers? What sorts of matters relating to efficiency audits would he draw to Ministers' attention? Do these matters include provision of information on areas which should be subject to program effectiveness or, as stated on page 36 of the report of the working party of officials, will the Auditor-General 'make his views about which areas should be subject to program effectiveness review known informally to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet which has been given the central responsibility for program review'? If the AuditorGeneral does all this, will he also be informing the Parliament what he has told the Executive? If the Auditor-General does not, it would be a matter for serious consideration by the Parliament because it would reflect a closer association of the Auditor-General with the Executive than with the Parliament. Should the AuditorGeneral be first drawing the attention of the Parliament to areas which should be subject to program effectiveness review rather than first informing the Executive and perhaps not even telling the Parliament? I want some of these questions answered by the Minister responsible. 
In relation to proposed new section 48C(2) the explanatory memorandum says that subsections (2) and (3) enable the Auditor-General to carry out an efficiency audit of an eligible incorporated company at the request of the Minister. Why is it necessary for the Minister to make a request? Can the Minister veto such an inquiry? Why cannot the Parliament request an efficiency audit if the Minister is allowed by law to make such a request? I turn now to proposed new section 48c (4) and ask: Why should the Minister be involved in an efficiency audit that entails Commonwealth funds spent by State governments? Proposed new section 48F ( 1 ) says that the Auditor-General may prepare and sign an efficiency audit report. Why is the word 'may' used and not the word 'shall'? If there are exceptions why should not they be included in this section? 
Incidentally, one does not know when an efficiency audit begins. If the Auditor-General is required to prepare efficiency audit reports- and we see no reason why there should not be such a requirement- as a corollary it may be necessary for the legislation to state when an efficiency audit begins- for example, by the AuditorGeneral informing the Permanent Head and the Parliament that he has commenced an efficiency audit into X, Y or Z. In relation to proposed new section 48F (2) (a) to (c) the Expenditure Committee suggests that the word 'may' be omitted and the word 'should' be inserted in its place. In (c) it suggests deletion of the word 'may'. Proposed new section 48F(4) refers to the Auditor-General preparing a restricted report and enables him, if he chooses, to prepare a separate report that does not include confidential information. The Expenditure Committee suggests that if he prepares a restricted report it should be mandatory for him to prepare the other report as well. This could be achieved by deleting the word 'may' in the sixth line of sub-section (4) and inserting the words 'shall transmit to the Parliament' in its place. In relation to proposed new section 48F(6) (a) to (c) the Committee thinks that this section is unsatisfactory. The Auditor-General must transmit his. report to the Parliament by whichever is the most expeditious way. Therefore (a), (b) and (c) should be qualified accordingly. The Committee suggests that a suitable amendment to sub-section (6) (a) could be: 
Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (6) the AuditorGeneral shall transmit signed copies pf the report to ea'ch House of the Parliament as expeditiously as possible and no later than he furnishes copies of the report to the parties mentioned in sub-section (8). 
The same comments could apply to proposed new section 48G (2). I turn now to comment on proposed new section 48N (4). If the independent auditor addresses a matter to the Department or the Minister, as he is allowed to do under this sub-section, should not these matters also be presented to the Parliament? In proposed new section 48P (2) (a) to (c) the word 'may' should be replaced by the word 'should'. Amendments could be made to other clauses of this Bill. 
I am raising the matter at this stage because the legislation committees are in an embryonic state. No member of this Parliament yet knows exactly how the legislation committees are going to work. I notice in the Standing Orders that it is essential for the clerk of a legislation committee to be advised of any proposed amendments so that they may be printed for the benefit of the members of the committee. What I am trying to do in making this statement on behalf of the Expenditure Committee is ensure that the Minister and the officials have an opportunity to study some of the thoughts that are expressed at this second reading stage and before the legislation committees meet. It will be absolutely useless if we go along to the legislation committee and find that all these propositions are going to be placed before the committee without the Minister and his officials having had an opportunity to consider them. I am putting these thoughts before the Parliament this evening so that the Minister and officials will have some idea of the arguments to be advanced and the comments to be made before the legislation committee. 
I know that this next matter has been raised previously but I raise it again. It is essential that the papers to go before the legislation committees are made available to the members of those committees as early as practicable so that they may study them before they go to the committee meeting. Basically, the members of the Expenditure Committee and all members of this Parliament should be greatly concerned that this Bill appears to create a closer association of the Auditor-General with the Executive rather than with this Parliament. I ask that the Minister for Finance consider the points that I, the honourable member for Gellibrand and the honourable  member for Bradfield have raised prior to the meeting of the legislation committee which I understand will take place about Thursday week. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr STEWART I do. 

 -Mr Speaker, during Question Time today you ruled a question I asked as being out of order. I have looked at the Standing Orders and I really cannot find any reason why the question should have been ruled out of order, except perhaps on the grounds of Standing Order 144(f) which states that questions should not contain ironical expressions. I have looked at the  Shorter Oxford English Dictionary  and I have found that the word 'irony 'is defined as follows: 
A figure of speech in which the intended meaning is the opposite of that expressed by the words used; usually taking the form of sarcasm or ridicule in which laudatory expressions are used to imply condemnation or contempt. 
My question was- 
-by leave-This is the final report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. An interim report was produced by a previous committee chaired by the former member for Herbert,  Mr Duke  Bonnett. The fact that this Committee has been operating over a period of three parliaments is an indication that the Committee did a great deal of work. It is fitting to mention that from the inception of the Committee until the presentation of this report to the Parliament there were only two changes of membership of the Committee. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  resigned from the Committee and his place was taken by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The other members of the Committee remained on the Committee for the whole time, with  Mr Bonnett  's position, on his retirement, being taken by the well known, well loved honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  During the course of his membership of the Committee, we were able to keep his youthful exuberance under control. The Committee worked harmoniously and well. The  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  assumed office after Duke Bonnett resigned and he worked assiduously during the whole of the time that he was  Chairman.  I feel that this report is the first substantial recognition of tourism in this country. Australia, to me, has a vast potential in tourism, both domestic and international. What needs to be done is for Australia and Australians to sell Australia. That necessarily means that we must have co-operation from the Australian Government, State governments, local government and industry. 
The point that was highlighted to me and I think to other members of the Committee during the course of all our hearings was that until the time this Committee started its deliberations, each sector of the tourist travel industry thought that it was the industry. Each State government thought that only it had tourist potential. Each local government area thought that only it had tourist potential. I believe that this report will convince local government, the State governments, the Australian Government and the various sectors of the industry that tourism can become a unified industry. The various sectors of the industry need to recognise that they are part of a whole industry and that they will need to cooperate with each other. There is one point in the report that I desire to mention. It appears at page 2 in the final chapter of the introduction. Paragraph 10 states: 
The Committee records its regret at the lack of cooperation received from the Australian Council of Trade Unions which declined to make a submission. The Committee had expected that the Australian National Travel Association (ANTA) would have been more involved in the earlier stages of the Inquiry. The situation regarding the delayed appearance of ANTA before the Committee is commented on in Chapter 1 3. 
We have a situation in which on the one hand the employees representative was not prepared to appear before a House of Representatives select committee to give guidance, advice and information on penalty rates, part-time work and casual work in this travel and tourist industry- a 24-hour a day, 7-day a week industry. The Committee, either through the secretariat, the previous Chairman or the present Chairman, approached the Australian Council of Trade Unions on no fewer than four occasions. On no occasion did the ACTU take up the invitation for a representative to appear before an all party House of Representatives committee and to express his opinion on penalty rates and working conditions in the tourist industry. 
On the other hand, the Australian National Travel Association, the employers representative, dillydallied over a long period before presenting a substantial submission to the Committee. The  Chairman  of the Committee, mentioned- it is also mentioned in the reportthat the awards in certain sectors of this industry are at present under consideration. Despite the fact that employers repeatedly told Committee members of the economic difficulties caused to them by penalty rates in the industry because it is a 7-day a week, 24-hour a day working industry, none of them has bothered to raise the question of penalty rates in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or before an arbitrator. It is not up to this Parliament or to a select committee of this Parliament to become a wage fixing authority. It is up to the people in the unions and on the employers side to decide, through the conciliation and arbitration machinery, the wage rates and working conditions which should apply. I conclude my remarks by congratulating and thanking the members of the Committee for working together so harmoniously. I hope the 
Government will give both the House of Representatives and the Senate an opportunity to examine thoroughly and debate this report. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 11 October 1978: 
1 ) Did he receive representations from me concerning a suggested amendment to Item 123, First Schedule, Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act, which would substantially widen the exemption to include various aids to blind persons. 
Did the Minister Assisting the Treasurer reply that sales tax exemptions are not the most equitable form of assistance to handicapped persons, implying that some form of direct assistance would be preferable. 
If so, was the suggestion rejected on this basis. 
Does the Government intend to introduce some form of direct assistance to help handicapped persons to obtain these aids; if so, what form will it take and when will it be introduced. 
-Today the broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings has been blacked out by a ban imposed by the New South Wales branch of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association. I do not intend to make comments on the rights or wrongs of the dispute between that Association and the Government. However, I am perturbed that a responsible industrial organisation- an organisation which ardently believes in freedom of speech and the rights of the media to report without fear or favour- should take action aimed not at the Government but at the Parliament. Whether or not the banning of parliamentary broadcasts causes any inconvenience to the general public, whether or not the broadcasts have the lowest or the highest listening audience, is not the point at issue. To me the alarming aspect is that Parliament is again the target of attack by people in the community who have a disagreement with the government of the day. I do not intend to deliver a sermon on the struggles of our forbears to establish and hold our democratic system of government. Those matters are well known to all of us in this Parliament and to most of the community. There can be few people in Australia who would prefer a totalitarian system of government to the democratic system of government, with all its faults, failings and frustrations, which we follow in Australia. 
Parliament is the foundation stone, the cornerstone, the rock on which our system has been built, but in the past few years there has been an increasing tendency for groups in the community with an axe to grind over some decision of government to make the workings of Parliament the venue of their demonstration. The rights of the public to enter Parliament House with the minimum of inconvenience, to criticise Parliament, parliamentarians, governments and Oppositions, to demonstrate without undue inconvenience to other members of the public and to exercise their hard won right of a free and secret vote are too precious to allow them to be lost by the inaction of Parliament itself. This appears to me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to be what is happening. Since February 1976 there have been no less than six incidents in this chamber in which members of the public have been involved. I will cite one or two of these incidents, but because of insufficient time will ask for leave to incorporate details ofthe ones I cannot cite. 
On 19 February 1976 a woman walked from the Speaker's Gallery on to the floor of the chamber. She was removed from the chamber and the building by the  Deputy  SerjeantatArms. She was subsequently reported to be ill. On 26 August 1976 demonstrators addressed the House from the public gallery. They were removed and then spoken to by the SerjeantatArms. On 4 May 1978 five young people in the public gallery took off their coats to display skeleton suits, stood up, donned masks and created a disturbance. They were also spoken to by the Serjeant-at-Arms and removed from the building. On 16 August 1978 a visitor in the public gallery threw pamphlets into the chamber and shouted out He was removed from the gallery, questioned by the Serjeant-at-Arms and police officers and allowed to leave the building. The last incident happened on 24 October 1978. There was another on 20 September 1978. It is details of those two incidents which I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 20 September 1978- Visitor in Public Gallery threw pamphlets into Chamber and shouted out- removed from Gallery, questioned by Serjeant and police officers and removed from building. 24 October 1978-Visitor in Public Gallery shouted outremoved from Gallery, questioned by Serjeant and police officers, held until 6 p.m. and then removed from building. 
In not one of those instances- and again today- was action taken by the Parliament to protect itself. I am unable to offer any solution to the problem except to suggest that the Presiding Officers and the leaders of all parties should urgently examine the situation to see what action Parliament can take to preserve its rightful place in a democracy. It matters not to me what the public thinks of individual members of Parliament or political parties, but I want them to uphold the dignity of 
Parliament and to recognise the importance that our Parliament plays in our democratic system. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, you will be pleased to learn that after 25 years in Parliament I have learned a few more things than has the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  When I was his age and first came to this House I thought that I could be aggressive, come into the House and take over on the adjournment debate, but after a few years I found out that it is much better to act normally than to act like a  Sir Laurence  Olivier. I raise a matter tonight which is not a direct responsibility of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  but which must be of vital concern to him. I refer to the double graduation this year of medical students from the universities of Sydney and New South Wales. In the early 1 970s the administrators of the medical schools of the universities of Sydney and New South Wales decided to reduce the academic time of their medical courses from six years to five years. The proposed courses were approved by the General Medical Council of Great Britain. At that time all the States and the Territories of Australia accepted the GMC medical standards. 
The first five-year medical students commenced their courses in New South Wales in 1974 which means that this year the last of the six-year graduates and the first of the five-year graduates will be looking for places in hospitals in New South Wales to complete their one-year compulsory internship which is required for their full registration by the Medical Board of New South Wales. The New South Wales Government has made arrangements for the 800 to 900 graduates this year to be placed in hospitals in New South Wales for their one-year internship. But it is the next year, in 1980, that the troubles of these young doctors will commence. Then sufficient internships will be available in New South Wales hospitals for about only half of the 1979 graduates. 
One might say: 'So what. There are plenty of hospitals in Australia and those graduates who cannot be placed in New South Wales hospitals should be able to find a place in a hospital in another State or in one of the territories if they wish to have two years hospital experience'. However, my information is that there are very few places in hospitals throughout Australia which are not filled by local graduates. If these inexperienced doctors decide to go into general practice they will be eligible to practise only in 
New South Wales and Western Australia, and perhaps Queensland, as the medical boards in those States are prepared to register the five-year graduates after one year's internship. The Northern Territory and Tasmanian medical boards have decided that five-year academic training plus a two-year internship is required before registration is allowed there. The Victorian and South Australian medical boards have not yet made a decision on registration qualifications but they are expected to decide on a five-year academic plus two-year internship before they will allow registration. 
Whilst these New South Wales doctors will be able to obtain registration in New South Wales, Western Australia, perhaps Queensland and also in Great Britain, they will not be able to register in the Northern Territory, Tasmania, Victoria or South Australia. Has anyone ever heard of a more ludicrous situation? I emphasise that this situation has not been brought about by the decision of any government but by the unilateral action of university administrators and medical boards in various states. Surely, after the difficulties Australia has had in trying to solve the problems created by not having universal educational qualifications, universal rail gauges, universal traffic signs and laws and in having an industrial movement which is confounded by State and Federal unions and State and Federal awards, we should have learnt that we are one nation with a common bond and - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether it is a fact that there is likely to be a surplus of medical practitioners in Australia in the next few years. Is it also a fact that some States and the Northern Territory require five years academic training plus two years internship before a graduate in medicine can be granted registration whilst other States require only five years academic training plus one years' internship before registration? If so, what action has he taken or is he taking to ensure firstly that Australians will not be faced with the alarming situation of having qualified doctors on the unemployment benefit and, secondly, that there are uniform qualifications throughout Australia for registration as a medical practitioner. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
When will he provide an answer to my question No. 123S placed on notice on 24 May 1 978. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the sum of the Government subsidy presently paid in respect of nursing home patients in receipt of ordinary nursing care and how is it determined. 
How often is the subsidy adjusted. 
What was the extent of the last adjustment and when was it made. 
Due to the lateness of the hour I will not delay the House for very long. I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who is the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. In its inquiry the Committee thoroughly examined the Defence Service Homes Scheme. It was the first time that the 
Scheme had been looked at thoroughly since its inception. The Committee considered very thoroughly on the 13 recommendations that it subsequently made. Today we find that the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  has grudgingly accepted one of the 13 recommendations that were brought down. He admitted that the main recommendation concerning the optional grant was innovative and a major recommendation made by the Committee and that it represented a major alteration to the Defence Service Homes Scheme. That recommendation has just been thrown out the window, despite the fact that the Committee argued it quite thoroughly in its report. 
The other matter of some significance is the amount charged by the Australian Postal Commission to collect moneys on behalf of the Defence Service Homes Corporation. The charge is $1.71 per month on the average loan of $15,000 on which the monthly payments are $73. Even under the new health insurance scheme the private medical benefits funds which will pay out moneys on behalf of the Government will be allowed, I think, only $1.54 for each transaction. When we consider the amount that the Aus.tralian Postal Commission Will be getting from the Government just for collecting these moneys, there is reason to wonder whether the Committee's report was considered thoroughly by the Government. 
It certainly is. It is the first time that that excessive amount has been brought to the light of day, as the honourable member for Lilley says. The only other point that I make is that there is no doubt in my mind- as the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Lilley said- that the Committee will examine thoroughly the Minister's response, although there is not a great deal to examine. Much of the eight pages is gobbledegook. There are no definite statements explaining why the recommendations of the Committee were rejected. In order to allow honourable members to get home to bed at this hour of 1.15 in the morning I will reserve my further comments for the Committee's full and considered response to the statement brought down by the Minister earner today. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Are all programs for the Special Broadcasting Service produced and presented by voluntary workers. 
) Do broadcasters have any legal status or contract. 
Does the special broadcasting station acquire the copyright of all material broadcast. 
Can broadcasters be dismissed by decision of the station management; if so, is there any right of appeal and with whom can the appeal be lodged. 
Does the station management have legislative, executive and judicial powers over broadcasters. 
Will the Government introduce immediate amendments to the Special Broadcasting Service provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act to (a) grant the right of appeal to an independent authority by the broadcaster/person dismissed, (b) ensure that a broadcaster/person can only be dismissed for misconduct and (c) ensure that minor complaints against broadcast co-ordinators or other persons, be heard in the (presence of at least 2 other parties. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
What action has been taken to consider the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. 
What discussions have taken place to determine which recommendations should (a) be discarded, (b) be implemented or (c) remain under consideration. 
Which recommendations have already been (a) implemented and (b) discarded. 
When will an announcement be made on the Government 's attitude to the recommendations of the report. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
What are the various rates of sales tax imposed on solar energy appliances. 
Can he say whether the United States of America offer tax incentives to assist the proliferation of these appliances in that country. 
In view of the growing energy problem, will he consider and advise the House of the possibility of exempting these appliances from sales tax and of offering tax incentives to encourage their use in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) Did he recently grant fee increases to nursing homes in the Sydney metropolitan area; if so, which homes received the increase, and what are the new fees in each case. 
Will any of these new fees exceed the sum of the age pension and the Government subsidy paid in respect of ordinary care patients; if so, by how much and how will this be met. 
What alternatives are available to patients who have no other source of income and no relatives or friends able to assist them meet these new charges. 
-Before speaking to the motion that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has just moved I will make a few comments on the procedures being adopted following the legislation committee's meeting on this Audit Amendment Bill. Chapter 13 (e) of the sessional orders relating to legislation committees states: 
If a bill has been amended, the  Clerk  to the Committee shall prepare a schedule of the amendments made to the bill to accompany the bill, for report to the House by the  Chairman  of the Committee. 
As these committees are, at this stage, bipartisan, I feel that the procedures adopted in discussing a report from the legislation committees should be much more clearly written than they are now. The Opposition was fortunate enough to receive at about 9.30 a.m. in my office a schedule of the amendments circulated by the  Clerk  of the House. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  received from the Minister for Finance a copy of the comments he was going to make. But the members of the legislation committee who met for two days to discuss these amendments- I think 16 amendments in all were made by the committee- are supposed to debate what is in the Minister's statement within five or ten minutes of the Minister making his comments. 
I think the situation is impossible. It is fortunate that the honourable member for Gellibrand was able to give me and the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  a copy of the notes that had been made available by the Minister. If we had not received those I am afraid we would have been at a great loss in trying to follow the proceedings of the Parliament at the moment. In his statement the Minister said: 
I also intend to move that committee amendments Nos 2, 12, 13, 14 and IS be disagreed to. This action has the agreement of the members who sponsored those amendments in the legislation committee. 
Let me raise this point. We are dealing with a legislation committee. Those members who sponsored the amendments in the committee do not have the right to reach agreement with the Minister in conferences outside of the committee. The legislation committees seem to me to be a good idea but they will not operate efficiently and correctly unless the members of the committees are taken into confidence prior to the legislation committees meeting to look at a Bill and taken into confidence again after the Government has looked at the amendments suggested by the legislation committees. The thing will finish in a real shemozzle if the Minister is to confer with just some members of the committee rather than the whole committee. 
Let me make a constructive suggestion. It relates to Chapter 13 (b) of the sessional orders for the legislation committees which reads: 
Any amendment to be proposed to a bill shall be notified to the  Clerk  to the committee in time for the amendment to be printed and circulated to members of the committee before the amendment is considered. 
Any amendments suggested by members of the committees should be circulated. I feel that the Government at that stage should indicate some of its intentions towards the amendments that have been proposed. After a committee has met and either agreed to or disagreed with suggested amendments the Government should again consider those amendments agreed to and again form a legislation committee so that the committee members can see whether their suggestions and amendments that were carried by the committee have been accepted by the Government. If that course were adopted I believe we would have a much more informed debate than we are having today. 
I refer now to the motion that is before us. I understand that members of the Public Accounts Committee were told that they did not have the right to get the information referred to. It was not until the matter was raised by the legislation committee when it first met on 15 November 1978 that agreement was reached. On the second day the committee met, 17 November 1978, the Minister said, in his opening remarks, which are recorded at page 25 of the transcript: 
To refresh the Committee's memory about a number of amendments, we agreed to some and others I said we would consider and we could deal with them in Committee of the Whole. It might help if I indicated some of our thinking about them. We will first address ourselves to  Mr Connolly's  amendment to clause 12. 
The Minister then indicated that the Public Accounts Committee had authority to seek the information and publish it if necessary. What has happened to the advice that was given to the 
Public Accounts Committee in the first instance? Was it incorrect advice or did the  Chairman  and the  Deputy Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee misinterpret the advice that was given? I will admit that the Auditor-General does not normally look for this information unless it is given to him. The Committee agreed to an amendment- clause 12, page 11, line 11, to add a further sub-paragraph- in order to get that information published by the Auditor-General because it was believed that the Public Accounts Committee did not have the right to do so. We are talking about freedom of information legislation and in my opinion this is another indication of information being made available. If the Public Accounts Committee can get that information, well and good. Otherwise the Auditor-General should be able to disclose such information if he so desires. Furthermore, I note that the financial statements of each department are supposed to show the number of payments and the amount of each payment but in arguments in the legislation committee it was suggested that the names of the people involved, the suburbs in which they lived and the amounts which they received should be included. 
All the legislation committee was seeking in this instance was that information as regards who had payments waived or who had ex gratia payments made to them should be made public. For example, did all my friends get ex gratia payments because I made representations on their behalf, or did all my friends get knocked back while all the friends of some other members received such payment? We simply require this information so that the public may know how these ex gratia payments are made and to whom they are made. Generally, we seek to give the public an idea of why these ex gratia payments and waived payments are made and where they go. On behalf of the Opposition, I say that I am prepared to accept the situation whereby the Public Accounts Committee can get the information and can publish it, thereby satisfying the desires of the members of the legislation committee. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Opposition has some doubts about this amendment. In the legislation committee the Opposition proposed an amendment to clause 40, but it was not agreed to. It proposed that the following sub-section be added following sub-section (9) of proposed section 48f: 
A report containing comment reflecting adversely upon the conduct or performance of duties of a Minister, officer, or person liable to be reported upon shall not be published or transmitted to Parliament unless the person the subject of the comment has been afforded a reasonable opportunity to have taken into account and noted in the report his response or a response submitted on his behalf relating to the matters the subject of the comment. 
The Government has now decided to amend section 48F by putting in a new sub-section after sub-section (2). That is the amendment that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has circulated. That is to direct the Auditor-General to pass on to a department the report that he proposes to make in which he might suggest that there was inefficiency on the part of somebody in that department. Then that body may reply to the Auditor-General within 28 days. If no reply is received, the proposed report of the AuditorGeneral may then be printed. If a reply is received from the body the comments made in that reply shall be considered by the AuditorGeneral and, if the Auditor-General thinks fit, he may delete something from his report or generally alter it. 
The doubt in the mind of the Opposition is about what will happen when the AuditorGeneral's draft report goes to a body, where in most cases it would be delivered to the permanent head, the permanent head reads the report and realises that the action that the AuditorGeneral is commenting on has been going on since creation. A degree of insufficiency has been existing there for a long time. The permanent head or the officer who perhaps gets that report passed on to him by the permanent head to make comments on may decide that this is something the department itself should have picked up a long time ago but did not. Therefore the body sends back a report to the Auditor-General and says: 'We have been remiss. We should have checked this inefficiency out a long time ago. We thank you for having brought it to our notice and we will take immediate action to remedy the situation'. 
Generally the officers will not be mentioned by name in the Auditor-General's report, but let us say that it deals with the computer program section of a department. Then it is fairly easy to identify the officers. Will those officers, not named but clearly identified, be given the opportunity see the proposed report of the AuditorGeneral so that they can make some input to the comments that are to be returned to the AuditorGeneral by the body. If there is a likelihood that those officers who have been criticised will not be given an opportunity of seeing the proposed report of the Auditor-General they can be left high and dry. They will not be given the opportunity to say: 'We were beaten, but I did not lose', to use a quote. So that the first thing the officers knows about the complaint is when the AuditorGeneral 's report actually comes out and is transmitted to Parliament. The Opposition would like to see a provision to safeguard the position of those officers or an assurance that if the proposed report of the Auditor-General goes to the body concerned the officers and/or section that might be under criticism are given directly the opportunity to make their comments on the proposed report. 
-In my earlier comments I said that this amendment had not been adopted by the legislation committee. In fact it was, and it has been amended by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I just wanted that point corrected in  Hansard. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  gave generally the Opposition's outlook on this clause. The amendment that was accepted by the committee has been circulated. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  have spoken on it. The Opposition is desirous of making absolutely certain that no officer in the Public Service can be charged with gross negligence when gross negligence is very difficult to interpret. We do not want to allow any officer to be in the situation after an efficiency audit of being compelled to pay back some amount to government because of some action for which he or she was not entirely responsible. 
The Opposition is inclined to think that the amendment moved by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  makes it reasonably certain that it will be only in extreme cases that an officer will be charged. The amendment states:   an officer shall be taken to perform duties in a grossly negligent manner if he has displayed, in the performance of those duties, a deliberate or serious disregard of reasonable standards of care. 
Not being a lawyer, I cannot say for certain but I believe I could have a fair deal of fun in interpreting 'a deliberate or serious disregard of reasonable standards of care' should the occasion arise. In the Public Service Act the words that are used generally apply to disciplinary action for misconduct. In this case it is disciplinary action that will mean that the officer or officers concerned may have to pay- out of their own pockets- a sum or sums back to the Commonwealth Government. If the sum is a large one it will mean that that person and his or her family perhaps will be driven into bankruptcy. Certainly the Opposition does not uphold inefficiency in the Public Service or inefficiency in private industry, but at the same time we need to be very careful to see that we do not have something in an Act which will allow any person in the 
Public Service, for one reason or another, to have the opportunity to say that they will charge an officer with gross negligence. 
Even if that officer is proved innocent there is still that mark that will appear; there is still the worry of the case that would be heard. Therefore, the Opposition believes that this amendment as it is before us now would give or appear to give sufficient safeguards to the officers in the service so that they will not find themselves in the situation where they are surcharged because of having done something in the course of their work that could be regarded as inefficient or perhaps careless but not such as could be interpreted as a deliberate or serious disregard of reasonable standards of care. The Opposition is prepared to allow this portion of the Bill to be altered on the basis of the amendment of the Minister. 
-I wish to raise a matter that was raised in the legislation committee discussions on the Bill. I refer to an amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to proposed new clause 48F, as follows: 
After proposed sub-section (6) insert the following sub-section: " '(6a) Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (6) the Auditor-General shall transmit signed copies of the report to each House of the Parliament as expeditiously as possible and no later than he furnishes copies of the report to the parties mentioned in sub-section ( 8). ". 
Discussion occurred as to the wording of that section. The intention behind the honourable member's amendment was to make certain that when the Auditor-General produced an efficiency audit report the Parliament should get it as a matter of course. During the discussion, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  said: 
I give notice that in the report stage I will move an amendment and I will consult  Mr Willis  and the Minister about an appropriate number of days to state in it. 
The  Chairman,  who was  Mr Giles,  said as reported at page 20 of the  Hansard  record: 
We have other amendments on it still to come. I think the best method- if I might patch up the argument- would be for  Mr Willis  perhaps to withdraw his amendment and redraft it, with or without the co-operation of the Government, and introduce it at the report stage. I think that would be the easiest way out of that one. 
Proposed sub-section (6), after which the honourable member's amendment was to be inserted, states, in referring to the AuditorGeneral, the following: 
he may include the report in the next report made by him under section S 1 that includes his report with respect to the accounts, or financial statements, of that body; 
he may include the report in a report made by him, otherwise than under section SI, with respect to the financial statements of the body, being a report a copy of which is required by an enactment to be laid before each House of the Parliament; or 
he may treat the report as a special report and transmit signed copies of the report to each House of the Parliament. 
That sub-section gives the Auditor-General the right to choose. The honourable member for Gellibrand, and Opposition members generally, thought that a provision should be written into the Act requiring that the Auditor-General, after preparing a report- other than a restricted report- should transmit it to the Parliament as soon as possible. The implied promise in the proceedings of the legislation committee was that this matter would be looked at. I ask the Minister whether the matter has been looked at. If so, is it intended to have the Auditor-General transmit efficiency audit reports to Parliament as soon as possible after he has made them so that both Houses of Parliament will know of them about the same time as the head of a department or body to whom the report has to go? After all, it is the Parliament that is supposed to scrutinise the efficiency of the Public Service. If these reports of the Auditor-General are to be transmitted to Parliament, generally when the Auditor-General decides, this Parliament is missing out on the role it should be playing. I ask the Minister to answer the questions that I posed earlier. 
-I agree with a great deal of what has been said by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  but I should like to put him straight about the attitude of the Australian Confederation of Sport.  Sir Arthur  George, in seconding a motion at the last annual meeting of the Confederation of Sport, said: 
I differ a little in emphasis from the  President.  We were not slightly dampened, I think we were gravely disappointed and confused at what I regard as a breach of faith. 
This organisation had its origin in two threats that were posed to sport. The first was an occasion where it was proposed that sponsorship by cigarette companies, a source from which sport gets $S.Sm a year at present, be prohibited and the second was the first Budget of the Fraser Government, which made no provision at all for sport. It was these two happenings that motivated two independent meetings, one held in Sydney, where I was honoured by being elected Chairman and one held in Melbourne where Wayne Reid was Chairman . . . 

 Sir Arthur George went on to criticise quite violently, for a man of his standing, the lack of funds that had been provided by the Australian Government- this present Australian Government- since its election at the end of 1975. 
-It was at the annual general meeting of the Confederation this year. I do not have the precise date. In his second reading speech the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  said: 
The 'Life. Be in it' philosophy is to encourage Australians to become more active. The campaign stresses the enjoyment and benefit to be gained from recreation. The long term objectives of the campaign are to change Australia's attitudes and behaviour towards sport, fitness and recreation. 
We are talking about three things- sport, fitness and recreation. Let us see what the present Government has done in regard to those three things since it was elected in 1975. Almost immediately after the election there was an an=nouncement by the Government that the Department of Tourism and Recreation was to be abolished and that most of the Department's initiatives in that field that had been introduced by Labor were to be cancelled. What programs did Labor commence between 1972 and 1975? 
Earlier in this debate someone commented that we were sending the country broke. These are some of the things that Labor initiated and for which we provided funds. The highest amount spent for the administration of the Department of Tourism and Recreation over that three years was somewhere in the vicinity of $ 18m. We were sending the country broke! This 'Life. Be in it' campaign is trying to impress on people that they should indulge in healthy outdoor and indoor recreation and physical fitness activities, but between 1972 and 1975 the Labor Government introduced the sports assistance program. It conducted a national coaches seminar and established an Australian Sports Council. It had a task force investigate the establishment of a national sports institute. It laid down policy on foreign affairs and sport and it encouraged sporting exchanges between various nations. It also encouraged the lifesaving organisations to become more active and gave them reasonable grants to enable their administration to become more efficient. It also introduced a physical recreation development program. All of that occurred under the heading of sport and physical recreation. 
If we turn to community recreation we find that the Australian Labor Party Government introduced capital grants for leisure facilities. It encouraged the investigation of community centres. In South Australia it conducted an investigation to see how schools could fit into the community generally. It investigated whether the faculties provided at schools could be opened during and after school hours for general community faculties. The Labor Government also had two reports on education of recreational workers made and under youth affairs we investigated the recreational requirements of the youth of Australia. We were researching, we were introducing, we were innovative during those years. But as soon as this Government came in it decided that of that $18m, $1 1.1m in the 1975-76 Budget was too much for the general welfare of the community of Australia. The Labor Government was looking at prevention rather than cure. We were trying to encourage people from the young to the elderly to participate in active healthy outdoor and indoor recreational activities. 
What were the aims of the Australian Labor Government in those years? The first aim was to create an awareness of the values associated with participation in sport and physical recreation. Our aim was to encourage greater participation and it was to raise the quality of this participation. The pursuit of excellence on one hand and mass participation on the other were the two main thrusts of the Labor Party's plan. They are not opposites. Rather, they run parallel with and reinforce each other. A capital assistance program introduced by Labor was to help provide sporting facilities at local levels. The sports assistance program had been expanded to further assist national associations with their travel, coaching and administrative costs. This aspect of the program stressed that for some time the excellence in sport was a worthwhile objective and one worthy of government support just as are the objectives of art, drama, music and other areas of human endeavour. The Australian Government had taken the first step in a program aimed specifically at encouraging Australians to become involved in more active pursuits. 
If we look at the Budget figures in the first Budget introduced by the Fraser-Anthony Liberal-National Country Party Government we see that an amount of $13.7m was allocated for youth, sport and recreation. Of this allocation, $ 11.1m was provided to honour commitments made to State and local governments and sporting organisations under the capital assistance grants scheme for the provision of leisure facilities. If we look at the amount of money spent in 1976-77 we find that only $9. 7m was spent and not $13.7m. In 1977-78 under the same heading in the Budget, $6.7m was allocated. Of that amount, $6.6m was spent. Of that amount of $6.7m originally allocated, $3.7m was provided to make grants to local and State governments and to sporting organisations for commitments made by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. In 1978-79-the present Budget$7.4m has been allocated for youth, sport and recreation. Of this amount $1.3m is allocated to finalise the commitments for grants made in 1974-75 by the Labor Government for the provision of leisure facilities. Bearing in mind that the Government, in the 1976-77 Budget, has been honouring Labor's commitments on the capital assistance program under duress from State and local government and national sporting organisations, we find that the Government's expenditure on youth, sport and recreation has been $13.7m. Of that amount, $1 1.1m was provided for commitments made by the Labor Government. So, in effect, $2.6m was allocated by this Government for youth, sport and recreation. In 1977-78 there was an allocation of $6.7m. Of that amount $3.7m was allocated to pay for Labor's commitments. Overall $3m was allocated by this Government. Of the amount of $6.7m allocated, only $6.6m was spent. In 1978-79 $7.4m has been allocated and $1.3m has been allocated for the finalisation of the commitments for the provision of leisure facilities promised by Labor in 1974-75. Out of these present funds only $ 1.3m goes to national sporting organisations. An amount of $lm went to those organisations in 1977-78 after assistance to them was cancelled immediately this Government came into office. Not one new cent has been granted by this Government for the provision of levy facilities by State and local government organisations. 
As I said earlier the Labor Government's intention was to create an awareness in people of all ages to involve themselves in healthy outdoor recreation. Unless we have the proper facilities at ground level, and in the rural areas and unless we have championship facilities available in major cities, we will not get participation or improvement by the champions and by the young people of Australia. Some of the facilities on which our young people are expected to train and play are not fit to graze some of the cows on about which the Country Party is so often talking. In introducing that program for grants for the provision of leisure facilities we were aware of the need to promote the health of citizens of Australia. Of the amount allocated in the 1975-76 Budget only $1 1.1m was spent over the whole of that program by the Department of Tourism and Recreation. 
Tonight we are talking about a miserly $600,000 a year over three years granted to the National Fitness Trust Fund to promote a campaign called 'Life. Be in it'. This amounts to a total of $ 1.8m in all for the promotion of national fitness in Australia. Will this Government not recognise that the health and physical fitness of Australians generally is declining and that the prowess of our sporting champions is falling far below that of our traditional opponents? Nobody on this side suggests that it is only the elite that should be looked after. It is mass participation that we want. It is at the base of the pyramid where encouragement is needed and from that base will come the champion men and women whom we as rugged, outdoor Australians all. admire. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  almost came to recognise that our sporting prowess was falling below that of our traditional opponents when he went to the Olympic Games held at Montreal in 1976. In July of that year he had established the Task Force on Coordination in Welfare and Health. He had not asked it to have a look at youth, sport or recreational programs. He had not asked it in the strict sense to look at sport. But after he got the rounds of the kitchen by the coaches of and the participants in the Australian team in Montreal in 1976 he came back and specifically asked the Task Force, chaired by  Mr Peter  Bailey, to look at what Commonwealth assistance should be granted to sport in Australia. Paragraph 15, which appears on page 5 of the report of the Task Force, states: 
Sport: In relation to the specific reference to the Task Force of the extent to which the Commonwealth should assist sporting activities, we propose that Commonwealth assistance be for international sport and the funding of national bodies through a restructured grant to be named Support for International Sport and National Sporting Bodies: in this program, the Commonwealth should fund directly the organisations involved, maintain close liaison with relevant State agencies, and develop machinery for consultation with sporting representatives and experts. 
I interpolate and say that there was only one aspect of the program introduced by Labor that Bailey did not say should be continued. What do we find? In the present Budget $1.33m is allocated to sport. In the previous Budget $lm was allocated. Nothing at all is set aside for the provision of recreational facilities. The Bailey report also mentioned the provision of recreational facilities. Paragraph 14 (c) on page 5 of the report recommends the introduction of what is called the community assistance and recreation program- CARP. The task force wanted to draw together in one program various activities such as the area improvement program, capital assistance for leisure facilities, senior citizens centres, the national fitness program, the life saving assistance program and the assistance to youth activities program. The Bailey task force made that recommendation in 1976. 1 would say that the report was tabled in the House somewhere around February 1977. This Government has done nothing about it. We are talking about $1.8m being provided for the national fitness of Australians. I hate to say it as I do not think sport should be a political topic but my party was making money available; honourable members opposite cancelled it and accused us of extravagance in this field. Ever since, some of the younger members of the Liberal party have been chasing after national sporting organisations and making speeches in the House about what they will do for sport. But at Budget time they say nothing. 
I commend this report to all members of parliament, in particular to those members of the Liberal Party and National Country Party who say that they want to assist sporting organisations and improve the health and attitudes of Australians generally. They should read this report and, in particular, paragraphs 12 1 to 172. 
-Under the Labor Government life saving organisations were granted $280,000 for three years in order to give them an opportunity to plan on a national basis. There has been no mention, so far as I know, that that guarantee of a minimum $280,000 per annum for three years, which ran out, I think, in this Budget, will be continued. 
-This time? 
We guaranteed the continuity of funds for three years so that the life saving organisations could plan ahead. 
I would have liked to talk about the reintroduction into our school curriculum of physical education and sport. There has been a growing tendency over a number of years- this applies particularly in the later years; year 1 1 and year 12- for boys and girls who are almost 18-years old not to participate in any physical activity at all. There is a tendency in the primary schools not to encourage our young boys and girls to participate in physical recreation. The Confederation of Sport has mounted a campaign. I ask the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  in association with the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  to see whether we can start right at the base level and inculcate into our young people a desire to be healthy and fit. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  mentioned guidelines in his second reading speech. Will he make available the guidelines for the sponsorship of the various items? Secondly, will he indicate to the Parliament how much is going into the National Fitness Trust Fund from the commercialisation of 'Life. Be in it*? 
-The explanatory memorandum distributed by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  makes a number of points. One is that this Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1979 will establish the Repatriation Review Tribunal as the single final body for the review of decisions on repatriation entitlement and assessment matters. The Bill also provides for the referral of matters of principle to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The Bill provides access to the Federal Court of Australia for the determination of questions of law. In the explanatory memorandum the Minister explained the existing appeal provisions. The memorandum states: 
Over the years, marked differences have developed in the hearing of proceedings, between assessment and entitlement appeals. 
Immediately preceding that comment the memorandum states: 
Each Tribunal operates independently with no machinery to ensure overall consistency in their decisions or in their interpretations of law. 
Apparently one of the reasons for introducing this amending Bill is that there are inconsistencies between decisions. I would have thought that a government that believes in competition, free enterprise and difference of opinion would not have used that as an argument to stabilise an appeal system. However, as those statements are made in the explanatory memorandum and also because of the statements in the second reading speech I wish to ask the Minister a series of questions. I hope that the Minister in replying to the debate will answer those questions. First, what were the substantial practical problems which prevented the Government from keeping to its intention to transfer the functions of the existing repatriation appeal tribunals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal? Secondly, what issues of law are likely to need clarification by the Federal Court of Australia and what issues of law have not been able to be clarified under the existing appeal system? 
Thirdly, what issues of important principles of general application under the Repatriation Act are likely to be referred to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal? Fourthly, why is it still retained in the Act that the representative of the Repatriation Commission or the appellant cannot be a legal practitioner although the  President  and  Deputy  Presidents of the new Tribunal have to have legal qualifications? Fifthly, what consultations have taken place between the Minister and/or officers of the Department of Veterans' Affairs and ex-servicemen's organisations, the  Chairman  and members of the existing entitlement and the Assessment Appeal Tribunals and advocates who appear regularly before those tribunals? 
The sixth question is: Is it anticipated that under the new system the time lag at present existing on the hearing of appeals will be reduced or lengthened? The seventh question is: Is it further anticipated that the number of appeals by ex-service personnel will be reduced and the number of successful appeals also reduced under this new legislation? The eighth question is: Can new evidence be introduced by the appellant before the new Tribunal at the time of the hearing or are the grounds of appeal restricted to the evidence already rejected by the Commission or by a board? 
Until I get straight and satisfactory answers to all these questions I can only assume that these amendments to the Repatriation Act are a backdoor method of further reducing the prospects of ex-servicemen and women and their dependants obtaining just compensation for their war service. The 1977 amendments have created some confusion amongst ex-servicemen and women, medical practitioners, advocates and the appellants themselves. I cite as my authority for that statement the annual report of the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal for the year ended 30 June 1978. The  Chairman  of that Tribunal is  Mr K.  L. Harding. The  Deputy Chairman  is  Mr N.  C. McGregor.  Mr A.  Lyne was a member of the Tribunal until 30 September 1977 and, on his retirement,  Mr D.  B. Nichols was appointed to fill the vacancy. The report at page 3 reads: 
During the year, many of the implications of the amendment of section 47 of the Repatriation Act and the insertion of section 24aa have become clear. From the point of view of a Tribunal, the changes provide a much firmer legal basis for deciding appeals. In this respect, they build on the foundation established by the introduction of the practice of giving reasons for decisions. 
Many appellants are not yet aware that there is now a clear requirement for the establishment on the evidence before us of one of the casual links between incapacity or death and eligible service which are prescribed by statute. Although no onus of proof is placed upon them, appellants neglect the evidentiary provisions of section 24aa at their peril. Some medical witnesses are unaware that it is no longer sufficient to rely on the inability of the Repatriation Commission to disprove aetiological possibilities of varying degrees of remoteness. 
Most appeals still relate to the 1939-43 war and the 1977 amendments have accentuated the difficulties which arise through the effluxion of time. Widows are clearly disadvantaged. Over half of the appeals which we heard during the year under review were brought by widows. They were almost invariably unsuccessful. It is extremely difficult to establish a casual link between a death today and service which concluded 30 years ago. Many widows blame the war for the premature death of their husband with undoubted justification in some cases. They regard this as a proper basis for pension. However, the Act makes no separate provision for this eventuality. The widows of servicemen who were prisoners of war in the Pacific theatre are particularly disadvantaged. 
The Government has now brought in these new amendments. The amendment I mentioned was almost taken straight out of the Toose report, the Independent Enquiry into the Repatriation System', which took about four years and cost an inordinate amount of money.  Mr Justice  Toose did recommend that section 47 of the Act be amended or abolished. It was amended in the 1977 legislation. But what did the Government do about  Mr Justice  Toose 's recommendations on statutory bodies for determination of claims? On page 1 6 of the summary of the report honourable members will find that paragraph 67 says: 
Repatriation Boards should be abolished and replaced by the following arrangements: 
The report goes on to set out those arrangements in sub-paragraphs (a), (b), and (c). It suggests that the commissions should be retained but in paragraph 70 it states: 
Jurisdiction in respect of matters the subject of appeal for entitlement and assessment at present shared by Entitlement and Assessment Tribunals should be placed with Tribunals empowered to determine both entitlement and assessment matters. 
Paragraph 71 states: 
Such Appeal Tribunals should have the independence, powers and status proposed for the projected Administrative Appeals Tribunal and, ideally, should be constituted as a Repatriation and Defence Division within that Tribunal. 
Admittedly, the Minister did say that there are practical problems but he did not say in his second reading speech what those practical problems are. The Minister suggests that the Repatriation Review Tribunal, made up of both the Assessment Appeal Tribunals and the Entitlement Appeal Tribunals, should be established. The only thing that is added is that the Tribunal have referral powers to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and, on matters of law, to the Federal Court of Australia. 
Until the Minister persuades me otherwise I am convinced that this again is merely a sop to our ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen. This proposal, to my mind, is designed to try to reduce the number of appeals that are being conducted by the Repatriation Boards, the Repatriation Commission and the Assessment and Entitlement Appeal Tribunals. I only wish I had time to analyse the figures of the Assessment Appeal Tribunals and the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals over the last couple of years. I believe it is sufficient to cite just a few. The Repatriation Commission says in its annual report that there were 9,772 appeals to the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and the Assessment Appeal Tribunals. In the early part of my speech I posed the question: Is this legislation intentionally or unintentionally designed to cut down the number of exservicemen and ex-servicewomen who are appealing to bodies above the level of the Repatriation Commission? On page 58 of the Repatriation Commission's report, under the heading 'Table 12, Appeals to Entitlement Appeal Tribunals 1977-78', the summary shows that no total figure of the number of appeals heard is given. The number allowed was 309 and the number disallowed was 2,802. A quick addition gives me a total of 3,1 1 1 cases heard. The Entitlement Appeal Tribunals had 2,588 cases outstanding as at 30 June 1978. But of the 3,1 1 1 heard, 309 were successful. On page 59 no total number of appeals heard by the Assessment Appeal Tribunals is shown. There were 2,249 appeals allowed, 3,480 appeals disallowed and 29 appeals reduced. There were 1,167 appeals outstanding as at 30 June 1978. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you know and the Minister knows that it is the duty of an Assessment Appeal Tribunal to decide the extent of disability or incapacity of applicants. There are better figures on the allowance of appeals by the Assessment Appeal Tribunals than the Entitlement Appeal Tribunals. But even in this example, 2,249 appeals were allowed, 3,480 were disallowed and 29 were reduced. 
Is the Government fair dinkum in introducing legislation such as this when in an explanatory memorandum it comes out with the wonderful words that this proposal provides for a single appeal tribunal; that it allows the ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen involved in that infinitesimal number of cases to appeal to the Federal Court of Australia; that it allows the Assessment Appeal Tribunals to refer matters to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, again in an infinitesimal number of cases? A number of members of the Liberal and National Country parties in this Parliament hold high ranking office in various ex-servicemen's organisations. I am surprised that tonight the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the honourable member for Grayndler- that is I- and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  are the only honourable members prepared to stand up and protect the eligibility of ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen to pension entitlements. The Liberal and National Country Party Government had been whittling their entitlements down prior to 1 972 but since returning to power in 1975 those parties have done so even more. 
In the earlier pan of my speech I asked whether the Minister or any officers of the Veterans' Affairs Department had had any consultation with ex-servicemen's organisations. I doubt very much that they did. My information is that they did not. Even if they did, I pose this question: Why are ex-service organisations, which are supposed to protect the interests of their members, allowing the Repatriation Act to be weakened even further? It seems to me that those organisations have failed to protect the interests of our ex-servicemen and exservicewomen because they believe that this Government can do nothing wrong. In the near future those organisations will find that under the new legislation it will be much harder to get an assessment appeal or an entitlement appeal allowed than it was under the old legislation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Before calling the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  I draw the attention of honourable members to the presence in the Gallery of the  Chairman  and executive members of the National Aboriginal Conference. I am sure honourable members would wish me to extend a welcome to them. 
Honourable members- Hear, hear! 
-Is it a fact that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications is proposing an immediate inquiry into the operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? If so, will the inquiry have the powers of a royal commission? Is the Minister prepared to name the person from the United Kingdom whom he favours to head the inquiry? 
I support the motion. Contrary to the impression that might have been given by comments  in the  media over the past few days, I do not stand here with my mitre or my crosier. My concern on the subject of abortion is that I am convinced philosophically, medically and intellectually that human life is continuous from conception to binh and throughout life. I am reinforced in my conviction by statements made by members of the medical, legal and academic professions, as well as by statements in the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. At paragraph 78 on page 54 of Volume 1 of that report this direct statement is made: 
The development of the foetus from conception to delivery is traced in a timetable and it is concluded that life is continuous from conception to birth and throughout life. The destruction of the foetus destroys life and raises issues of serious concern. 
At paragraph 71 on page 149 of Volume 3 of that report these words can be found: 
From the moment of fertilisation, or fusion of the male and female gametes within the fallopian tube, a new life has its beginning. Interference with this process, either by the prevention of implantation, or by the deliberate removal or destruction of the embryo or foetus, brings that new life to an end. This is what makes abortion an issue of serious concern to everyone. 
Those statements are only two of many that could be quoted from this and other sources. They make me agree with  Dr John  J. Connors- a Fellow of the Australian and English colleges of surgeons- of the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission that there is no way that the reported 60,000 or more abortions in Australia could be justified on medical grounds. I pose the question: Why do women seek abortions? For my answer I again quote from the final report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. Paragraph 102 on page 129 of Volume 3 states: 
The reasons which may lead a woman to consider abortion as a solution are basically the reasons given for a pregnancy being unwanted. They include the lack of financial resources or financial support; inability to cope emotionally; family size completed or a recent baby; too old; too young to assume parental responsibility; desire to continue studies; desire to avoid a forced marriage; unwillingness to have the baby adopted. For many women there is more than one reason. Not wanting the child is an important factor especially among the young and single. 
Of the ten reasons given in the report only one has anything at all to do with the mental or physical condition of the woman concerned, and that is the inability to cope emotionally. Why then should the Australian taxpayer pay for abortions which are desired for personal reasons only. What is being aborted? Again I quote from the report of the Royal Commission. Under the heading 'Foetal development-  Timetable',  paragraph 70 at page 149 of Volume 3 of the report states: 

 Weeks 8-16 up to ISO millimetres long; weight about 220 grams. The foetus grows continuously. At  9 weeks  it can make a fist and grasp. The sex glands have formed. At  12 weeks  it has a facial expression and can inhale fluid into its lungs. At  1 6 weeks  the arms and hands are fully shaped; the foetus moves in its fluid and the mother may feel it 'quickening'. It responds to pain, touch and cold, drinks amniotic fluid, gets hiccups, wakes and sleeps. 
Time constraints prevent me from developing my case any further on the hypocrisy of the proponents for abortion on demand and for the taxpayers to pay for those abortions on demand. I wish to turn to the question of the legality of many of the abortions presently being performed in Australia. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  in his amendment, mentions the law of a State or Territory. There is only one State, South Australia, and one Territory, the Northern Territory, that have laws allowing the termination of pregnancy under certain conditions. In two States, New South Wales and Victoria, and the other Territory, the Australian Capital Territory, abortions are performed on a liberal interpretation of the law. In the other three States the law on abortion is qualified by a statutory exemption. The liberal interpretation of the law in Victoria and New South Wales has been given by two back bench judges. Their judicial decisions have never been tested in a superior court. In fact, the Premier of New South Wales has described the law on abortion in New South Wales as being judge-made law. 
Because of the widespread criticism, indeed ridicule, in legal, medical and other circles of the decisions given by two back bench judges, I and a few of my colleagues in this House decided to seek an opinion from counsel.  Dr Wainer,  the infamous abortionist, has described the law in Victoria as wide enough to drive a horse through, and in his book  It's Not Nice  he described his efforts to stretch the law as far as possible. The Royal Commission also made many critical comments on the laws in the States relating to abortion. In the light of that criticism and ridicule, my colleagues and I approached  Mr John  Traill, LL.M., Q.C., and  Mr John  McCarthy, LL.M., for an opinion. That joint opinion has been circulated to all honourable members, and I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Re: R. v. Davidson 
Re: The Doctrine of Necessity 
JOINT OPINION 
Counsel have been briefed to advise on the current validity of the principles of judicial reasoning and decision of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt in R. v. Davidson ( 1969) V. R. 667 in which  His  Honour ruled on the circumstances which constituted the 'unlawful' use of an instrument to procure a miscarriage, an offence pursuant to Section 65 of the Crimes Act, 1958 (Victoria). The circumstances which prompt a reconsideration of this decision are the decisions of the Full 
Court of the Supreme Court of Victoria in Watt v. Rama (1972) V.R. 353 and R. v. Dawson (1978) V.R. 536. 
v. Davidson concerned a doctor charged on several counts of performing abortions unlawfully.  Mr Justice  Menhennitt inter alia, dealt with the element of unlawfullness in the charges.  His  Honour found that the leading English authority R. V. Bourne ( 1939) I.K.B. 687 as it concerned, inter alia, the interpretation of the English Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1928 was decided on a basis which was absent from Victorian Law.  His  Honour then stated, at p. 670,: 
Accordingly what is lawful and what is unlawful must be determined by other legal principles '. 
After reviewing certain cases and opinions in legal text books His Honour found, at p. 620-67 1 ,: 
Having regard to the deliberate and repeated use of the word 'unlawfully' in Section 65 of the Crimes Act 1958 and the nature of the offence created and the history thereof and in light of the authorities and views of learned authors to which I have referred, it appears to me that necessity is the appropriate principle to apply to determine whether a therapeutic abortion is lawful or unlawful within the meaning of Section 65 '. (our emphasis added). 
His Honour then ruled that the principle of necessity imported by the use of the word 'unlawfully ' imports the two elements of necessity and proportion and that these elements involve subjective tests, subject to the beliefs being held on reasonable grounds. His Honour concluded his judgment by deciding the relevant law in relation to unlawfullness as follows, at p. 672,: for the use of an instrument with intent to procure a mis-carriage to be lawful the accused must have honestly believed on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was: 
necessary to preserve the mother from serious danger to her life or her physical or mental health (not being merely the normal dangers of pregnancy and childbirth) which continuance of the pregnancy would entail; and 
in the circumstances not out of proportion to the danger to be adverted. 
Accordingly to establish that the use of an instrument with intent to procure a mis-carriage was unlawful the Crown must establish that the accused did not honestly believe on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was necessary to preserve the woman from serious danger to her physical or mental health or that the accused did not honestly believe on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was in the circumstance proportionate to the need to preserve the woman from the danger to her physical and mental health, (not being merely the normal dangers of pregnancy entails). (3rd June, 1969 the jury found the accused not guilty of each of the abovementioned 5 counts on which he was charged). 
Similar issues were raised in R. v. Wald 1972 NSWDCR 25.  His  Honour Judge Levine sitting as  chairman  of Quarter Sessions in New South Wales in R. v. Wald 1 972 Vol. 3 DCR 25 had to rule inter alia on the interpretations of the NSW equivalent S65 of the Crimes Act Victoria. With great respect to  His  Honour he suffered from a great lack of binding authority, he did not re-examine the reasoning of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt in R. v. Davidson but uncritically applied the persuasive decision of a Superior Court in Victoria, albeit one based on the repeatedly discredited principle of 'necessity'. This decision in no way adds to the authority of R. v. Davidson. 
In 1978 in R. v. Dawson the full Court of the Supreme Court of Victoria (Starke, Anderson and Harris J.J.) had occasion to consider the legal principles applicable in the defence of necessity. The case concerned an application for leave to appeal. At his trial upon a charge that, being a prisoner, he had escaped from the prison, the applicant admitted the escape, but led evidence that he escaped because he feared for his life as a result of threats made against him in the prison. The trial judge directed the jury, inter alia, that the defence of necessity was not open. Leave to appeal against this ruling was refused. In the course of his judgment,  Mr Justice  Anderson said, at p. 539,: 
Dealing with the defence of necessity, a passage in Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th edition, Vol. II, page 26, para. 26 succintly states: 
Although there are cases in which it is not criminal for a person to cause harm to the person or property of another, there is no general rule giving rise to a defence of necessity, and it seems that, outside the specified cases mentioned, it is no defence to a crime to show that its commission was necessary in order to avoid a greater evil to the defendant or to others '. 
Specific cases mentioned are self-defence defence of property, force used in the prevention of crime, duress and marital coercion and a few exotic other examples are given. 
The defence of necessity is thus almost completely without reliable authority. It is, however, sufficient to say that there are virtually no reported cases where the defence of necessity has succeeded and the dicta of Coleridge C. J. in R. v. Dudley &amp; Stephens (1884) 14 QBD 273, indicates that even in the most extreme circumstances necessity it not a defence to a charge of murder and a number of cases, e.g. Buckoke v. Greater London Council ( 1 97 1 ) Ch. 665 at p. 688: 1971 2 All E. R. 254 at p. 258 and Southwark London Borough v. Williams ( 1971) 2 All E. R. 175 at p. 179, likewise tend to negate the existence of such a defence in respect of far lesser offences. On principle there seems to be no distinction between the nature of the crime committed because of an alleged necessity. The text books abound hypothetical situations in which it is submitted that the defence of necessity should succeed.These examples are cases in which, in order to avert some catastrophic situation such as the spreading of a fire or the foundering of a ship, the destruction of property might be justified. This present case in our opinion is not a case of necessity by any of the standards which are traversed in case, People v. Whipple (1929) 100 Cal. App 261, it appears that inhuman treatment is not an excuse for prison breach ... I am not concerned to say in what circumstances the defence of necessity would arise. In R. v. Dudley &amp; Stephens, supra, at page 286 appears the statement of the Commissioners preparing the criminal case to the following effect: 
We are certainly not prepared to suggest an authority should in every case be a justification. We are equally unprepared to suggest that necessity should in no case be a defence. We judge it better to leave such questions to be dealt with when if ever they arise in practice by applying the principles of law to the circumstances of the particular case '. 
Just as the Commissioners and the Judges in R. v. Dudley &amp; Stephens, were deterred from formulating a code in relation to the defence of necessity, so, to, do I refrain from rushing in where other have declined to tread. It is proper to say however, that very few, if any, of the elements would be required to found the defence of necessity are present in this case. As well as many other elements would be the requirements of immediacy, in the sense that compulsion is present and continuous; and unavoidability in the sense of being no alternative to the doing of the criminal act'. 

 Mr Justice Harris also commented on the defence of necessity in the above case. He said, inter alia, at page 543: 
In addition, in my opinion, it is at least doubtful whether there is any defence of 'necessity' known to the law. Lord Simon in DPP for Northern Ireland v. Lynch ( 197S) A.C. at page 686 referred to the concept of duress as an extremely vague and illusive jurisdic concept. How much more vague and illusive is the juristic concept of necessity. The facts in the macabre case of R. v. Dudley &amp; Stephens (1884) 14 Q.B.D. 273 were insufficient to raise it. Text book writers (or some of them) have recognised the necessity as a defence (see Archbold 39th ed. para 14S0) but Halsbury (4th ed. Vol. 1 1 para 26) states that: 
There is no general rule giving rise to the defence of necessity'. 
There is an interesting discussion of the matter in Kenny's outlines of Criminal Law ( 19th ed.) 1966 pp. 72-4 where the author observes (at page 72) 'that there is no English case in which the defence has actually been raised with success'. However in the circumstances of this case the matter does not have to be investigated further'.  Mr Justice  Starke agreed with the reasons and conclusions of Anderson J. 
In our opinion, the R. v. Dawson case must be regarded as authority for the following propositions in respect of the defence of necessity: 
1 ) There is no general rule of law giving rise to a defence of necessity, and outside specified cases mentioned, necessity is no defence to a crime to show that its commission was necessary in order to avoid a greater evil to the defendant or others. 
2 ) If there is a defence of necessity known to law ( and in our opinion there is not) then the circumstance must include, inter alia: 
requirements of immediacy, in the sense that the compulsion is present and continuous; 
unavoidability, in the sense of there being no alternative to the doing of the criminal act. 
We note that the Full Court in Dawson's case does not refer to the procurement of a mis-carriage as being a specified case in which the defence of necessity may be raised. 
We are further of the opinion that the legal reasoning in R. v. Davidson cannot be regarded as a proper application of the defence of necessity.  Mr Justice  Menhennitt made no reference to the leading authority of R. v. Dudley &amp; Stephens and either did not apply his mind to, or dismissed as irrelevant, the elements of unavoidability and immediacy. He also did not address the issue that the procurement of a miscarriage involves not one but two human lives, (the mother and the foetus) and that the foetus, even before birth, is entitled to the protection of a law which is clearly intended to be inter alia, for its protection. 
In respect of the last mentioned proposition, the Full Court of Victoria has determined the matter in Wood v. Rama 1972 V.R. p. 353. In that case, the Full Court (Winneke C. J. Pape and Gillard JJ) held that a plaintiff, who at and after birth suffers injuries caused by the neglect of the defendant in driving his motor vehicle, such neglect preceding the birth of the Plaintiff in point of time, has a cause of action in negligence again the defendant in respect of those injuries. In the course of a long and closely reasoned judgment Gillard J. stated, at page 376,: 
From these cases, it must be accepted that there is a rule of law which recognises that an unborn child may possess rights. This implies that there are correlative duties imposed on others in favour of the unborn child. It also implies that an unborn child is deemed to be a 'person' where the right is for his benefit, so if he survives his binh and obtains the requisite capacity to institute proceedings for an infringement of his rights, he may do so and obtain a remedy for the infringement when he was en ventre sa mere. 
In the various cases, as was pointed out, by Cozens.Hardy M. R. the unborn child's rights were considered separate and distinct from the mother's rights. Because of lack of precedent one might be slow to apply this fiction to the law of negligence but I find no logical reason for rejecting the notion that the common law would protect a child en ventre sa mere against careless acts causing him or her injury. As its property, real or personal, is protected so should its physical substance be similarly protected by deeming it to be a person in being and imposing a duty of care on any other person not to commit any act of carelessness which as a reasonable man he would anticipate would injury the physical substance of the unborn child. Without being called upon to refuse to follow any authority binding on this Court, there appears to be no valid reason, in principle or otherwise, why this concept of protecting the unborn child should not be introduced to the developing law of the independent tort of negligence. Without claiming any pretensions of being authoritative on the matter, from reading the vast material placed before us by the industry of Counsel, it became apparent that biologically a person's well being can be influenced, both universally and beneficially, by its prenatal history and experience. Disease and trauma happening at any time from the womb to the tomb apparently can affect one's well being and future health. It is obvious that the 'person ' who is conceived and develops in the mothers body is biologically the 'same person' who survives birth, lives and finally dies. Again adopting an expression of Lord Pearson, as 'a matter of impression and instinctive judgment as to what is fair and just: such a 'person' at any stage of its development or life cannot realistically be held to be 'an unforeseeable plaintiff. At all stages of its development or life; its possible presence in an area or risk or potential danger caused by a negligent person should be reasonably foreseeable to such person. Accordingly, if it were necessary to come to the conclusion that the infant plaintiff should establish an existance in law in order for a duty of care to be owed to her by the defendant at the time of the fault committed by him, I would be inclined to the view, on the basis of Lord Loreburn's generalization, that for the purposes of protecting her interests, the infant plaintiff was deemed to be a person in being at the time of the collision, and on birth was entitled to recover compensation for any damage caused by any breach of duty by the defendant at that period. ' (our emphasis added) 
We consider that the abovementioned judgment is authority for the proposition that the unborn child is recognised by law as a person separate from his/her mother and is the possessor of rights under law. The recognition of the unborn child as a separate legal person with legal rights which are enforceable on birth must mean that the law also recognises that that legal person cannot be deprived deliberately of its life by being aborted. In other words, not only must the unborn child not be damanged by careless or negligent acts, it must not be deliberately deprived of life simply because it exists. 
In summary it is our opinion that the legal reasoning of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt, relying on the principle of necessity, as a defence to a criminal charge in R. v. Davidson would not be confirmed by the Full Court of the Supreme Court of Victoria. There is not any authority of a Superior appellate Court in the English speaking world which upholds the doctrine or 'necessity' as a defence. 
It is our further opinion based on the reasons for judgment in the appellate decisions of the Victorian Full Court in 
Wood v. Rama and R. v. Dawson that the definition of unlawfully' in section 65 of the Crimes Act 1958 (Vic.) given by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Menhennitt in R. v. Davidson is wrong and would not be approved by a Superior Court. 
It is our opinion that the only circumstances in which a deliberate and intentional procurement of a mis-carriage would not be unlawful within the meaning of Section 65 of the Crimes Act 1958 (Victoria) may be in the case of the imminent death of a pregnant woman where no other means, medically, are available to preserve her life. We consider that it is also strongly arguable that such action in those circumstances may lack sufficient intention by a doctor to directly cause the death of the unborn child by such an operation. The doctor's intention in those circumstances is to preserve the life of the mother, and only indirectly to cause the death of the unborn child. Necessity is irrelevant. Legally the doctor's intention in such a case can be characterised as a lawful attempt to preserve at least the life of the mother in the course of treating a medical pathological condition and probably the life of both the mother and the child. Given the current state of medical science we consider these circumstances would rarely occur. 
Chambers 16 March 1979 
John D. Traill Q.C. 
John McCarthy 
-Mr Traill and  Mr McCarthy  stated: 
In summary it is our opinion that the legal reasoning of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt, relying on the principle of necessity, as a defence to a criminal charge in R. v. Davidson would not be confirmed by the Full Court of the Supreme Court in Victoria. There is not any authority of a Superior appellate Court in the English speaking world which upholds the doctrine of 'necessity ' as a defence. 
It is our further opinion based on the reasons for judgment in the appellate decisions of the Victorian Full Court in Wood v. Rama and R. v. Dawson that the definition of unlawfully' in section 65 of the Crimes Act 1958 (Vic) given by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Menhennitt in R. v. Davidson is wrong and would not be approved by a Superior Court. 
We obtained that opinion in order to put it before this Parliament and so that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  and the Premier of New South Wales, the Premier of Victoria and their Attorneys-General could see that there is a divergence of opinion on the Menhennitt and Levine rulings.  I  challenge the legal authorities of this Parliament and the legal authorities and the Premiers of the States of Victoria and New South Wales to test before a superior court the law under which they are allowing abortions to be performed in their States. Until such time as that law is challenged, until the law is stabilised one way or the other, we will have in this Parliament a continuation of the debate that has taken place over a number of years on the subject of termination of pregnancy, or abortion. A few years ago we had a debate on the McKenzie-Lamb Medical Practice Clarification Bill. We then had a debate on the Mathews-Chipp motion to set up an inquiry into human relationships. Only recently in the Senate we had a debate on the disallowance of an ordinance in the Australian Capital Territory. 
We in this Parliament have no real authority in respect of the laws of the States of the Commonwealth, and those laws are the ones that cover the liberalisation or the restriction of abortion in Australia. I believe that it is up to the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria to test the decisions under which their courts are working so that they can decide what they are going to do about this topic. It is a State rights matter as to whether the laws of the State should allow or disallow abortion. We in this Parliament are tearing ourselves apart time and time again over this matter, and the only authority we had was in the Northern Territory- it is doubtful whether we have that authority now- and the Australian Capital Territory. Why then do people continually look to the Commonwealth Parliament for guidance in this matter? Why do not those people who think so deeply about this matter, either pro or anti, go to the place where they can change the law- the State parliaments- and insist that they do something about it? Perhaps we could then agree to pay medical benefits for abortions that are legal. But I suggest that at the moment a number of the 60,000 or more abortions that are being performed every year in Australia are being performed illegally because the law under which they are being performed is not a valid law. I repeat the challenge I made: The legal authorities and the Premiers in the States of Victoria and New South Wales should test the Menhennitt and Levine decisions- the judge-made laws, as the Premier of New South Wales said- to see what needs to be done in the abortion laws of Australia. I support the motion. 
-Is it a fact that the Minister for National Development has stated either privately or publicly that the arguments of Caltex for an 0. 1 5c per litre price rise in petrol have considerable force and merit? Is it also a fact that, according to a survey of service stations in Melbourne last November, Caltex was wholesaling petrol to discount outlets at approximately 4.5 c per litre less than the maximum wholesale price authorised by the Prices Justification Tribunal? If so, how can the Minister support the most recent demand by Caltex for a further price rise? 
-I thank the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  for moving that motion. I support the comments made by the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Expenditure Committee. I will be short in my remarks because the Committee has suggested that time for debate on the report should be made available during the autumn sittings. There is no reason for honourable members to go through the report just presented. There is no doubt in my mind or in the minds of Committee members that Parliament has very little scrutiny of public expenditure and it is something about which honourable members should show a much greater interest. The diagrams on pages 8 and 9 of the report give an idea of how little opportunity the Parliament has to see what is going on in the Public Service departments- what they are doing with their money, how much they are going to spend, where they are going to spend it and so forth. I also commend Appendix 1, which sets out a description of the Budget process. I think all honourable members will find that interesting. One becomes aware that the Budget process for the next year commences almost immediately the Budget has been presented in the House each year. I look forward to an interesting debate on this report when the Government gives approval for that debate to come on. I congratulate the  Chairman  of the Committee on the work that was put into the report. I congratulate also all members of that Committee for their efforts. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that, as a result of legal action by the licensees of several Sydney commercial television stations, many public submissions from interested persons have been rejected on the ground that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal cannot hear submissions from any person who does not have a pecuniary interest? If so, is this action in direct conflict with the concept of public accountability and the need for people to have some say in the way in which the frequency spectrum is used? What action does he intend to take to ensure that the public has the right to submit evidence on the ground of 'public interest' at hearings of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal? 
