At the outset I want to say to Representative Katter that when he talks about Australianism many new members in this Parliament- people like Representatives Mathews and Lamb- are here because the conservationists in this community are sick of being trampled by the mining lobbyists. So when the honourable member is talking about political dividends, the very fact that these men are here is significant. As for Representative Katter's concern about royalties in mining communities, I have been advised by Representative Fitzpatrick that he obtained 75 per cent of the vote in Cobar; so that refutes his stupid reasoning. The reason why I enter this debate is very simple. I believe that the creation of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will mean that with an overall national plan those of us who are conservationists can work with the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  because we will implement a sane plan. To those people who jeer about that I say just look at the situation that has resulted from their bungling of the Top End national park. For years  Mr Fairbairn  and others talked about it. At least under  Mr Connor,  who is emulating 
Stewart Udall and other famous American Secretaries of the Interior, the mining companies will not dictate to us. Of course, they would like to. 
I invite honourable members to look at the situation in the electorate of Robertson. Certain interests there are so petty and mean and so antiAustralian that just because there happens to be a large cluster of red gums in that electorate they have taken us, the Australian taxpayers, to the Privy Council to try to achieve some cheap commercial advantage. Yet members of the Opposition have the effrontery in this chamber to shed crocodile tears about mining company morality. I notice that my colleague on the other side,  Senator Davidson,  is present. I use the word 'colleague' in the broad sense; perhaps in the sense of Senate comradeship since we were both members of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. What was our experience as a result of going all over the Commonwealth? We saw these graveyards of broken promises by mining companies. This Government has inherited a serious problem in the Molonglo River just because the Lake George Mining Co. welched on an agreement made 20-odd years ago. That is the sort of thing that  Mr Anthony  talks about. He defends these buccaneers; that is all they are and all they always will be. In the Parliamentary Library one can read the history of the battle for Lake Superior in the United States. There have been injunctions, actions by 3 State legislatures and an action in the United States Supreme Court- and the mining companies are still going on with their pollution methods. 
As an Australian I want to see an effective marriage between conservationists and mining interests. But I know that if every mining company gets in for its own cut, conservation will suffer. The master plan that we have for the Top End national park in the Northern Territory will be a tourism gem but it will come about only when mining companies know that there is a bit of muscle in Canberra and that they are not going to push people around. It is remarkable that I should have to stand here tonight and hear this vilification of  Mr Connor  and  Senator Keeffe.  The history of the United States would have been a lot better if a conservationist in the person of  Senator Edward  Muskie had been elected  President  instead of what did happen. One reason why he was brought to his knees was that the wicked mining lobby tried to defame him. If  Senator Wheeldon  was here he would concur to the hilt in what I am saying. It is of no use anyone trying to intimidate  Mr Connor, Dr J. 
Cairns or any of our other speakers here with this fear about mining companies. In the history of Bolivia there have been at least 25 revolutions and 30 governments since the end of World War II. Yet British and American capital is still there because tin mining is a good prospect. It is the same as far as  Mr Connor  is concerned. I heard  Mr Katter,  who was the last  speaker  in the debate, talk about a banana republic. Every time one looks at such respectable journals as 'Newsweek' and 'Time' one sees articles about negotiations involving countries which are on their knees economically, such as Indonesia and certain Latin American republics, demanding a larger share of their nation's resources than previous governments in Australia were prepared to seek. 
My illustrious colleague from Queensland,  Senator Keeffe,  dealt very effectively with what happens when one has weak sister Premiers. The Opposition has talked about making readjustments. What has happened to the Premier of Queensland? He has now had to trim his sails and seek a greater royalty because of the way in which certain companies welched on Queensland. Honourable members and senators opposite talk about electoral respect for the Labor movement. There is a growing Australian nationalism which is against Australia becoming a gigantic quarry. I wish to make one final point. When the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution visited the Northern Territory it found out after persistent investigation that even a Government authority- I say this advisedly- in the Australian Atomic Energy Commission had polluted the Finniss River. I indict  Mr Fairbairn  for the failure of his Government to curb those sorts of pollution excesses? I entered this debate as a conservationist. I want to see a planned economy. I have confidence in Rex Connor. I believe that Rex Connor Will maintain the same high standard as has been maintained by such Secretaries of the Interior in the United States of America as Stewart Udall 
