It is with a real sense of regret that I rise to take part in this debate in an atmosphere of anticlimax and disappointment which has been created by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  whom my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  well suggests will become known as the shadow shadow Minister for Primary Industry. The honourable member for Riverina may be expert in publicity. The very success of his efforts in this direction perhaps has led us to expect that he also knew something about what he was getting publicity for. It was a great disappointment to honourable members on the Government side of the House to discover that the honourable member has now been exposed as a victim of his own publicity and has nothing to offer in the way of constructive contribution to the admittedly great and pressing problems of primary industry. The honourable member demonstrated that he is reasonably competent at pulling down but is sadly lacking in ability to construct. 
I have never heard anything so insincere and unfounded as this matter of public importance raised by the Opposition. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said, it is an outstanding example of political opportunism aimed at trying to cash in on the present critical position of primary industry. Anyone not familiar with Australian Labor Party rural policies could be forgiven for thinking that the Party is concerned about the problem or that it might know something about it. 
Firstly,  Mr Speaker,  dealing with the question of whether the Australian Labor Party is concerned, not long ago I had the opportunity to hear the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  address an agricultural economics symposium at Monash University. The main tenor of his remarks was that the skill and efficacy with which the rural industry and export industry case had been put to the Arbitration Commission had, in his opinion, been successful in lowering or keeping down the rate of wage rises and that if he had anything to do with it he was soon going to change this situation. If there is one thing that is notable in this area of seemingly constant inflation it is the effect of constant wage rises on the costs of primary producers. Yet according to the  President  of the ACTU, he was going to accentuate this problem and do so as quickly as possible. He also happened to mention as an aside during the course of his address that the Australian Labor Party seemed to lack a realistic rural policy. 
On the second point, the assumption that the ALP knows something about the problems of rural industry, it must have been very embarrassing for its candidates in country areas to have to go about during the last election campaign trying to explain what their policy was. In fact ALP policies are geared to the past and not to the future. Heaven help the rural industries if the ALP ever is in a position to implement its outworn, out of date policies, devoid of any appreciation df modern conditions. Fortunately the Australian country people are not deceived by such policies.. 
Everyone in the rural industries knows that they are in trouble. I have had several meetings in my own electorate but I have been greatly heartened and encouraged by the responsible attitude taken by people at these meetings. I would like to quote as an indication of this sense of responsibility one of the motions that was passed at the largest of these meetings. It was this: 
That the critical situation of the rural economy both requires and justifies urgent and substantial Government financial assistance, 
But that in applying this assistance, the Government must have as its aim the long term strength, stability and independence of the rural community rather than attempt to deal with the present difficult conditions by measures prompted by the desire for political popularity. 
That motion makes me proud to be a member of the rural community that passed that motion. I completely agree with that resolution. 
In other words, when policies are put forward, it is essential that they bs designed to fulfil these objectives. The greatest danger at the present time is that because of the growing economic crisis in major sectors of primary industry, to quote the words of the matter raised for discussion in this debute, hasty, ill-considered policies will be proposed designed merely to take the heat off temporarily rather than to attack the real cause of the situation. Such policies would certainly lead to a much worse situation and, eventually, make the solution even more difficult. Given the sort of policies proposed by the Australian Labor Party, country people would end up as a second rate sector of the community and would be put in a perpetually mendicant position, in pawn to the whims of whatever government happened to be in power. Clearly, from my meetings, this situation is not desired by the rural community. What these people do want is a policy which recognises the vital part that they have played in the Australian economy in past years and the equally vital role that they have to play in the future. They want policies which will enable them to continue to hold their heads up in the community and not become a burden on the backs of taxpayers, which they would become if the policies of the Australian Labour Party were ever implemented. 
Government policies must recognise that world trading conditions recently have undergone the most rapid and drastic change in history. The policy for the rural community - and I stress the words 'the rural community' because the way in which the Opposition has raised this matter for discussion seems to take it that only primary producers themselves are in trouble - must take account of these international changes and the changes in the economic situation of Australia itself. 
Hasty illconsidered policies would make it impossible to arrive at the right solution The matter raised for discussion by the Opposition infers that the Government should be stampeded into making this hasty decision which would result in short term palliatives which are not wanted by the rural community because the rural community knows that these policies would not solve the problems. No-one appreciates this fact better than does the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  who is sitting at the table. I heard the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  pay a tribute to the Minister in the address that he gave to the Agriculture Economic Symposium which I mentioned a moment ago. I would like to add my congratulations to the Minister for his responsible courageous statements on the problems of primary industry. 
If easy solutions to our problems were possible, they would have been found long ago. The fact is that the real solutions to the problems are complex, difficult and will take time and trouble to work out properly. The Minister has shown how they must be tackled. He is not prepared to see the rural community suffer a steadily declining standard of living without any real effort being made to attack the causes of this decline, not just the complaint itself. I have every confidence that, under the Minister's direction, realistic and responsible leadership will be shown regarding rural problems and that country people will not be deceived by the efforts of the Opposition to make political capital out of the present situation. 
This is what has surprised me more than anything else in this all too short debate. I refer to the fact that the critical situation facing primary industry has been used as a football rather than as a forum to propose sound policies for the future of Australia. If this debate, short as it is, has done nothing else, it has shown the complete absence of any constructive proposals that the Opposition can put forward. We have had the Opposition's shadow Minister for Primary Industry speaking. We have had the shadow shadow Minister for Primary Industry speaking also. Between the two of them, we have not heard one constructive solution put forward to these admittedly great and pressing problems. Country people in Australia including the people in my own electorate will not be deceived by these specious attempts to gain sympathy from non-existent policies. The future of this Parliament will show that this Government is well capable under its present leadership of giving a lead to primary industry so that primary industry may fulfil the great role which it must continue to play in the future of this country. I look forward with great pleasure to being a part of these policies. 
Motion (by  Mr Barnes)  proposed: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question put - 
That the  business of  the day be called on. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Could a more objective means be used to determine whether or not profitable share transactions are liable for income tax, rather than the present highly subjective method which attempts to assess the intentions of the person concerned? 
At the commencement of my contribution to the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech, I should like to deal with a couple of points which were raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke against conscription - in particular, selective conscription - and about pay and conditions in the Services. Firstly, I shall deal with the question of selective conscription. I think it is true to say that most Australians - certainly a good number of the members on this side of the House including myself - are not entirely happy with the system of selective conscription. I think many people would like to see the burden spread over a wider section of the community. 
I would like to see universal military service, but I believe that it is, unfortunately, impossible under present conditions. Quite apart from the lack of instructors in the permanent Services and the lack of equipment and accommodation there is also the question of the effect on the economy. I have often heard people say that we had conscription during the last war, but they forget to add that we also had reserved occupations. We needed reserved occupations during the war to maintain our civilian war effort at an acceptable level and we would need reserved occupations now to maintain our national growth at a satisfactory rate. As soon as the concept of reserved occupations was introduced there would be all sorts of abuses. 1 think it would be a worse system than the selective system which, whatever its faults, is at least impartial. 
The next point which was made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was against conscription itself. He said that Australia should be in a position to have an all volunteer defence force. He quoted various other countries where this system has been advocated or is already in operation. I think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has forgotten that the very success of this Government's policies in other directions has made such a system impossible. In all the other countries he quoted there is a far higher degree of unemployment than there is in Australia. The very success of the Government's policies has made it impossible for it to maintain Australia's defence forces at a satisfactory level by voluntary enlistment. The point is that for forward defence planning in any constructive and responsible sense it is necessary to know how many troops one will have at any given time and how many will come in at a later date. The fact of the matter is that the Government is not prepared to abrogate its responsibilities by putting itself in the position in which it is not able to plan for the future defence requirements of this country. 
I imagine we will have a chance to debate the defence aspect more fully later in the session and therefore I shall devote the rest of my speech to the subject on which I intended to speak tonight. I refer to the Governor-General's statement that the Government will continue to work with representative organisations to grapple with the problems facing the primary producer'. Last week in this House we discussed a matter of public importance, namely, the problems of primary producers. The debate was notable chiefly for the lack of constructive suggestions by the Opposition. I propose to remedy this situation by putting some forward myself. Firstly, I think we should ask ourselves whether assistance is necessary. I think there has been an extraordinary change in recent times in public awareness of the necessity for assistance to primary producers from the public purse. Far more publicity has been given in the newspapers and through other media to the plight in which many primary producers are finding themselves. All honourable members who represent country electorates could speak from their own experience on this aspect. The figures of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, which indicate a fall in primary industry income and so on, are welt known, as are the tables showing the rise in costs. ls assistance justified? I think it is justified, firstly because of the position rural exports have in the national economy. Rural export earnings are still over one half of the total export earnings of this country. Government assistance is justified also from a moral and social point of view. Many of the primary producers who are in trouble today can justifiably claim that they arc in trouble because of the policies pursued by the Government in other fields as well as, in some cases, the deliberate policy of closer settlement which was pursued by the Government very successfully in the 1950s when prices were high. As a result of these policies many primary producers are now in an extremely difficult position, although the policies were adopted by the Government in the light of what was economic at the time. Governmest assistance is also justified because, in general, primary industry is efficient. I know it is very difficult to make accurate generalisations, but the last figures I obtained indicate that the Australian primary producer feeds and clothes 59 people whereas his nearest competitor in any other country in the world feeds and clothes 41 people. Therefore, I think it can bc said that, in general, primary industry is efficient. 
If it is agreed that help is needed and justified on national, moral and efficiency grounds, how should it be given? In the present critical situation there is a danger that the wrong things will be done under the pressure of present circumstances. There is tremendous pressure on industry organisations, on the Government and on the individual members of the Parliament who represent country electorates. In this situation there is a very natural inclination, I am afraid, on the part of industry organisations and individual primary producers to grasp at straws. There is also a very natural inclination on the part of the Government to offer apparent solutions which may be superficially attractive - for instance, the concept of direct or indirect subsidies - and the producers can be excused if they agree with whoever is advocating such policies. 
I felt it was necessary for me to make my position quite clear in my own electorate. With the help of the local primary producer organisation in my electorate, I sought meetings in different parts of the electorate and the result of those meetings was an eye-opener to me. Those honourable members who are used to country meetings know how difficult it is to get people to come out to meetings at night. The smallest meeting I had during the last few weeks was attended by 300 people. Most of the meetings were larger. The other eye opener to me was the responsible attitude shown by the people who attended the meetings. They were not grasping at straws. They were not urging apparently facile solutions to their difficult problems. During the discussion of a matter of public importance which was raised by the Opposition recently I quoted one of the resolutions which was passed at one of these meetings, and I should like to quote it again because I think it is indicative of the responsible attitude shown by primary producers. It was in these terms: 
That the critical situation of the rural economy both requires and justifies urgent and substantial Government financial assistance, and in applying this assistance the Government must aim for longterm strength, stability and independence of the rural community rather than attempt to deal with the present conditions by measures prompted by the desire for political popularity. 
Other resolutions were passed, including one calling on the Government to increase its contribution to applied research aimed at reducing costs and increasing productivity in primary industry. I think this is indicative of the attitude which the people who are most affected are taking. But before deciding on how help should be given, I think we have to identify the cause of the present trouble. At the base of the trouble is the fact that with farms which are at the limit of production and which are still earning insufficient income for their owners and their families, particularly those with younger families, it is very difficult to see a way out. This is exactly the position in very many cases. 
In most of these cases we are dealing with extremely efficient managers - in my part of the country, those running, perhaps, 4 or  5  sheep to the acre or their equivalent. They are now being forced by economic circumstances in some cases to exceed the limits of prudent stocking rates. I stress that these farms are efficiently managed and that all forms of diversification and investment have been investigated and in many cases are already in operation. They just cannot earn sufficient income at present day costs and prices under their existing acreage. What does the owner do in these circumstances? The first thing he probably does is to try to borrow in the hope that things will improve. It must be noted that this borrowing is not for the purpose of increasing production or for diversification. Therefore, the income is mainly so that he can carry on. Unless the prices of primary products improve, this type of borrowing does not have a capacity of repaying itself. 
A colossal amount of borrowing of this type has occurred during the last few years since the 1965 drought. It has been a major factor in more than doubling rural debt in the last 10 years, from $950m to$1, 970m. The conclusion to which I come, therefore, is that much of Australia's rural debt, because of the reasons for borrowing, is not capable of being repaid in the existing circumstances, and that, in itself, is a frightening prospect. The interest bill on many farms is the biggest fixed cost of the farmer. But a further consequence of this situation is that the farmer cannot take the measures necessary to increase his production to give him an income level commensurate with the rest of the community. There are two ways by which his income can be raised when he is at the limit of production and prices are not likely to rise - and I think we would be unwise to consider that they are likely to rise very much in current circumstances. 
The first way to raise income is for the Government to subsidise output either directly or indirectly, as in the case of the so-called wool cost compensation scheme. I should like to say, once again, that direct subsidies on outputs have never solved problems, and in most cases they have created new ones. I will give an indication of what could happen, if some kind fairy came along and said to the wool industry: 'Here is $100m'. It must be remembered that 75% of Australia's wool is grown by 25% of the growers. So that $75m would go to the 25% of growers who needed it least and $25m would go to the 75% of growers who needed it most. 
As an indication of what subsidies can do to an industry, I refer to the dairying industry. Undoubtedly, the subsidising of the dairying industry for many years has had the effect of accentuating the surplus position in which we find ourselves today, because the provision of a subsidy was responsible for dairying being conducted in areas which were not entirely suited to it, and production from these areas has accentuated our surplus production and has reduced the equalised price received by producers all over Australia. This factor has operated very much against those efficient producers in the favoured dairying areas of Australia, and it has also resulted in a misal location of resources since the dairying industry is not concentrated in the areas which are most suited to it. Now this subsidy is built in to the system and it cannot be taken out of the system without creating a great deal of disruption and hardship. This subsidy is a classic example of a subsidy ending up harming the very industry which it was designed to help and making eventual solution of the industry's problems even more difficult. This is the historic result of subsidies on outputs of other products. 
As 1 said previously, I have been heartened and encouraged by the meetings which were held in my electorate. These people do not want direct subsidies, but 1 believe that we have to offer them an alternative, and this is a policy, as I have said previously, which is designed to establish a sound and independent rural community, not a sector in perpetual trouble or forever dependent on higher and higher subsidies in order to maintain income. Do not let us forget that the money which will be used to maintain this income will have to come from the 85% of people who do not live in country areas. I think they have every right to expect that money which is provided from the public purse to assist rural industry will result in the strengthening of the industry in the way which I mentioned a moment ago. I believe that help is justified, and 1 believe that those who are going to provide it are entitled to ask that it be provided in a way which will reduce dependence rather than create a situation in which dependence is created for as far ahead as we can see. 
What is the second means by which income can be raised? The second means by which a primary producer can raise his income is by increasing the scale of his operations, but when the farm is at the limit of production on the existing acreage, this can only be done by acquiring more land. At present interest repayment terms of about  8%  over  10  years, this is just not a paying proposition under the present level of costs and prices. The result is that land tends to be bought by people who do not have to make a living off it or can afford to accept a very low return on their capital. This situation is resulting in frustration and disquiet amongst the farming community which can see at least a partial solution to its problems but which is unable to do anything about it.  1  believe that the time has come when the Government should have a very careful look at the tax concessions available to those whom I call non-bona fide primary producers. From now on, ] think that whatever concessions are available should be given to existing primary producers, using the Federal estate duty legislation, which was recently introduced into this House, as the basis for definition of a primary producer. Very roughly, a primary producer is one of whom it may be said that at least  50%  of his assets and  50%  of his taxable income over the previous  5  years have been derived from primary industry  1  say this because in the present circumstancesI do not think we should be encouraging further production when we have difficulty in disposing of what we are already producing. Therefore, my main proposition is for the Government to grant assistance to bona fide primary producers as I have defined them, by making available to them long term loans at lower rates of interest - subsidised rates of interest, if you want to call them that. Certainly lower rates would have to be paid for by the rest of the community, but it would result in a stronger, more independent primary industry, rather than one continually having to be propped up by direct subsidies. This therefore fulfils the objective which I mentioned a moment ago of the taxpayer getting better value for his money. In addition to this main proposition should go measures to attack the great problems of rising costs. For example, I would like to see expert economic advisers available to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the adoption of a much more discriminatory and critical tariff policy as advocated by the Tariff Board in its recent reports. 
The Government should increase its spending on applied research designed to reduce costs and increase economic returns even if at the same time it has to reduce expenditure on pure research. I would like to see the incentive of double deduction tax concessions available to farmers for fees paid to farm management consultants to increase their productivity. HereI would like to make this distinction between increased production and increased productivity. I define increased productivity as increased output per unit of input, whether it be labour, capital or anything else. The Government could well consider taking over the expense of testing the whole of the Australian wool clip by objective measurement, that is. by core testing. The assessment of wool by objective measurement will certainly come and the quicker the better, and Government help in implementing its introduction would be a wonderful boost to the industry and an indication of real Government confidence in its future. 
These are a few definite proposals to help primary industry, but I make no claim that the list is exhaustive. There is one further point that I would like to make. If, as I sincerely hope will be so, the Government makes available substantial funds to encourage a certain degree of amalgamation of farms to take place, there is an equal obligation on the Government to provide generous assistance to those who choose to leave the business of primary production. I say equal obligation because, as in the problems themselves, it can justifiably be argued that the Government itself through its closer settlement schemes and pursuit of the desirable objective of rapid national growth is to some degree responsible for the present situation. The farmer is in general a hardworking, intelligent, independent individual, but as a rule he is not trained for any other job. It is inconceivable to me that all of these attributes and qualities would be largely lost to the community by his having to take an unskilled job and I ask therefore that hand in hand with policies to enable efficient, able farmers to increase the scale of their operations should go provision for those who wish to leave the industry to be trained to continue to play a full and useful part in the economy. With these two objectives in mind I feel sure that a really constructive approach can be made to the problems of primary industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Before I call the honourable member for Maribyrnong I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is there any intention of imposing a tax on liquefied petroleum gas used in automobile engines? 
 I refer to a recent statement by the Minister for Primary Industry giving details of a substantial strengthening of the top level organisation of his Department and, in particular, to his comment that governments would be called upon to provide more information and economic analyses on which farmers and farm organisations may base their decisions and that governments would themselves require more economic studies on which to base their policies. I ask the Minister: Does this mean that his Department has as its aim something that 1 have advocated several times in this House, namely, the provision of regular and frequent bulletins on world production and market prospects for all agricultural products of interest to Australia? 
Having listened to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  I think that anyone might be forgiven for thinking that he is about the only person in this House who is concerned with the problems of primary industry. I would like to assure him that many honourable members on this side of the House are vitally concerned personally with primary industry and have been attending meetings on this subject from one end of their electorates to the other. 
We have done something about it. We have been able to do something about it because many of us on this side of the House have had first hand experience in primary industry. We know what it is like having to deal personally with the problems that are facing farmers today because a great many of us are still practical farmers. There is nothing like first hand experience In any profession for gaining a true knowledge of that profession. There are far more honourable members on this side of the House who have qualifications in primary industry than there are on the other side of the House. 
My friend the honourable member for Angas tells me there is none at all. 
I doubt it. I can assure honourable members opposite that we have many competent people on this side of the House. 
The honourable member for Dawson questioned the system of land valuation. I think he said that there had been a 90% increase in the value of wheat farmland over the period of 5 years to which the last inquiry related. But of course, this 90% increase was not due to the system of valuation; it was due to the incorporation of the price of land in the cost of production formula which was used to give the home consumption price of wheat. This had a dog chasing its tail effect because at that time wheat was selling well, there was a guaranteed price and people were attracted into the industry. This made good wheat growing land more and more valuable and this in turn was used to push up the domestic price of wheat. That is why land values in wheat areas rose 90% in 5 years. It was not because of any system of valuation. 
I know. But I understood the honourable member to say that he was questioning the system of valuation. I am pointing out why this extraordinary increase occurred. As the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  said by way of interjection when the honourable member for Dawson was speaking, this situation does not apply today. Since the introduction of wheat quotas and the difficulties associated with wheat marketing there has been a drastic fall. There is no doubt that land valuations in the wheat industry have fallen drastically since the introduction of the wheat quota system. The honourable member for Dawson claimed to have some expertise in this matter, due to his previous association with Government departments, but I did not hear him put forward any constructive suggestions as to how we could overcome this problem of valuations which are unrelated to the income earning capacity of the land involved and also the rapid fluctuations. It might be worth considering whether values for probate purposes should be based on a longer averaging period so that we could, at least, get rid of the worst features of violent fluctuations. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I congratulate the Government on introducing this Bill. It is not only needed but also completely justified. I would also like to compliment some of the previous speakers in this debate. 1 think this has been one of the more constructive debates this session. I was particularly pleased to see that the provisions of the Bill, as introduced, were better than I envisaged they would be when the legislation was first foreshadowed in this House last year during the life of the previous Parliament. 1 made a speech on that occasion. I do not intend repeating what I said at that time but there are some very important implications in this legislation. The first is an acceptance by the Government of the peculiar difficulties faced by rural industry. 
The honourable member for Dawson suggested, by inference, that the Government had never appreciated that rural industries were operating under peculiar disabilities. Introduction of this legislation is proof that the Government does realise this situation. I also would like to refer the honourable member for Dawson to the recent decision of the Government not to extend the increase in interest rates recently announced by the Reserve Bank of Australia to primary producers or those mainly engaged in primary production. This again is a clear recognition on the part of the Government that primary producers are operating under particular disabilities which are not suffered by all sections of the community. I congratulate the Government for its wisdom in not extending the increased interest rate to primary producers. 
Much mention has been made in this debate of the very real dangers of frag- mentation for which estate duty taxes are responsible. I do not intend to enlarge on this matter. I was interested to see that the rebate outlined in this Bill is limited to an estate with a maximum valuation of $250,000. There are several important implications involved and here again I believe that the Government has been realistic. There is no doubt that in most primary industries there are economies of scale to be gained. It is not so widely recognised that there are diseconomies of scale. I had a chance to discuss this matter some 12 months ago with officials and office bearers of the National Farmers Union in the United Kingdom. They were able to give me some information to the effect that amongst its members those who were getting the best return on capital invested were the top 10% or 20% of the owner operators. Contrary to a lot of opinion, it was not the largest corporate farms which were obtaining the best returns on capital - it was the best of the owner operated farms. 
I have always suspected that this is probably so also in Australia. I was very pleased to have my suspicions confirmed by some research work which was incorporated in the report on the wool industry by the Committee for Economic Development of Australia which was referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  The researchers came to the conclusion that so far as sheep properties in Australia were concerned the best return on capital was achieved by properties having a flock size of between 4,500 and 5,000 sheep. For flocks over that number the graph of the return on capital did not merely taper off, it actually turned over. Diseconomies of scale began to appear and the graph started to go down even more rapidly when the flock size was over 12,000 or 17,000 sheep. 
This brings up the question of what is an economic sized farm. Again, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to this point. If policies result in too much aggregation, clearly in the wool industry and, I suspect, in others as well, there will be a misallocation of resources in the same way as there are misallocations if the units are too small. I think we have to be extremely careful to strike a balance between the two. That is why I think the 
Government has been wise to insist on a ceiling figure of $250,000 as the limit for this rebate. 
Does this diseconomy of scale apply in other industries? Quite frankly, we do not know. I suggest that this should be an avenue for immediate research. We must remember that agriculturally - indeed, so far as the whole economy is concerned - we are in a dynamic situation, not a static one. Therefore the answer never will remain the same. It will change with economic circumstances and with the development of new knowledge and techniques. But at least if we did some research into this point we might know where we are at the present time. 
The second main reason why 1 would like to congratulate the Government so far at this Bill is concerned is that for the first time we have a definition - perhaps a pretty rough and ready one - of a primary producer. A primary producer is someone who has had at least 50% of his assets in and who has derived 50% of his gross income over the previous 5 years from primary industry. In view of the present economic situation of rural industries there is a great deal of justification for looking carefully into whether this definition could be extended into other spheres. I think this point also was touched on by other speakers in the debate. The fact that previously the Government has tended to give blanket concessions to primary industry undoubtedly has been responsible for attracting into primary industry capital which otherwise might not have gone there. In other words, in that sense there has also been a misallocation of resources. I think that, for example, in preferred credit terms and, perhaps, in the field of income tax concessions as well, the Government will have to look very carefully in the future to decide who should qualify for concessions in order that we will get the best use of the limited resources we have and not merely attract capital into an industry for the concessions available. 1 think that this definition of a primary producer is one of the most realistic concessions that a primary producer has yet received from this Government. It is also good business since it will result in a more efficient allocation of resources. There is justification for close examination as to whether it could be extended into other spheres of concession. I trust the Government will consider looking at this matter in the near future. In the meantime, as 1 said at the start of my speech, this measure is a clear indication that the Government realises that primary producers are operating under peculiar disabilities in a rapidly expanding industrial economy. I hope that the Bill foreshadows more policy measures which will take account of these disabilities suffered by the rural sector. 

 Mr MARTIN (Banks) (5.21] - In speaking to this measure 1 feel that it is necessary to go back a little into the history of Commonwealth estate duty. Commonwealth estate duty first came into operation on 21st December 1914. It is important to note that the present rates of Commonwealth estate duty have remained unchanged since 1941. Let us look at the situation concerning total collections. In the year 1958-59 the total collections of federal estate duty were $26,617,488. In 1959-60 they were $27,505,220, and in 1960-61 they were $29,613,906. Let us jump a few years and come to the financial year ended 30th June 1967. The collections for that year were $41,533,748. The figure for 1967-68 jumped up considerably to $54,716,655. For the year 1968-69, which is the last year for which figures are recorded, the collections jumped up to $60,725,780. From those figures we see that the increase is a not inconsiderable amount of the total Commonwealth revenue. 
Let us look at the position as it affects the holders of rural property. Despite what one often hears, the Australian Labor Party is very much interested in the man on the land. For the year ended 30th June 1968 the total number of assessments issued for federal estate duty was 14,489. Of that total 3,783 were in respect of primary producers. In other words 26% of the total assessments issued for estate duty were in respect of deceased primary producers. The total gross value of estates for the year ended 30th June 1968, which is the last year for which statistics are available, was $840,226,000 of which primary producers represented $275,742,000. In other words the value of primary producers estates represented 32% of the gross value of estates in that year. 
Now we come to the dutiable value, which is the value after deducting statutory exemptions and other items. For the year ended 30th June 1968 the total dutiable value of all estates in Australia was $516,320,000. The primary producer content was $184,562,000. In other words, primary producers' estates comprised 36% of the total dutiable value of all estates in that year. Let us look at the tax paid by the primary producers. The total net duty assessed for the year ended 30th June 1968 was $57,711,000, and primary producers paid $21,901,000 of that total sum. In other words, primary producers paid 38% of the total revenue collected from federal estate duty for that year. 
From those figures it seems fairly clear that the burden of federal estate duty is being unfairly borne by this section of the community and that the Government, which professes to help the primary producer, has failed. Now is the time for members of the Australian Country Party to stand and be counted. It is clear that the section that they represent is paying more than it should. I suggest to the honourable members opposite who occupy the Country Party benches that they should have the courage to vote for our amendment. Our amendment states, amongst other things:   the House is of opinion that it- 
That is this measure -  is inadequate, as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation. 
the particularly critical situation of - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector; 
It is quite clear from the figures that I have quoted that members of the Country Party, if they were sincere on this issue, would come out and support us in our attempt to gain a little more justice for the rural producer. 
What are the critical needs in this matter that we are discussing today? Is the reduction in estate duty proposed in the measure a real help? Let us take a few examples of the reductions in estate duty which are proposed in the Bill. On a net value of $40,000 before the allowance of the statutory exemption - this would be a relatively small rural holding - the present duty payable is $937. The duty proposed under this measure is $400. The net reduction in duty payable would be only $537, which is a paltry amount. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the (a) quantity and (b) price of each type of primary produce imported from New Zealand in each of the last 5 financial years. 
What are the estimates for the current financial year. 
ls he able to say who were the importers of this produce. 
ls there any evidence that these imports of primary produce from New Zealand have had any adverse effect on the particular section of Australian primary industry with which the import would compete. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Did the Minister see the 'Four Corners' segment on the Royal Military College at Duntroon televised last weekend wherein an apparently faked and staged portrayal of bastardisation was televised? Does he believe the programme was unbalanced, lacked objectivity and in fact portrayed an utterly distorted picture of Duntroon? Will he refer this matter to his colleague, the Postmaster-General? 
Because of the volume and complexity of the evidence relating to the matter before the House time will not permit me to refer in detail to all the points made by speakers on the Opposition side of the House. It is not my purpose to treat the matter in the emotional manner chosen by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I was shocked to hear the Leader of the Opposition try to give the impression that the undertaking given in March and honoured and discharged by the September meeting was an automatic undertaking for further meetings after September. This I consider a flagrant misrepresentation of evidence. But, I suppose, having been in this place for some years now I should be familiar with the use of these tactics by the Leader of the Opposition. What is being considered in this debate is whether, as alleged by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  the Commonwealth Government failed to honour a commitment entered into with the States. In order to answer this question it is necessary, as the honourable member for Farrer himself pointed out, to determine firstly whether, in fact, a commitment was entered into. It is my intention to examine as objectively as I can these 2 questions. 
Let me make one point quite clear from the start. I am in no doubt that the honourable member for Farrer honestly and sincerely believed that, acting on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, he entered into a commitment with the States and that subsequently this commitment was not carried out as he expected it would be. I point out that however sincere the honourable member may be in his belief, this does not prove he is right. It may be argued that as the honourable member for Farrer was personally concerned in these matters and was present at the relevant meetings he is in a better position than I am to give the answers to these questions. To this argument I reply that in a court of law neither the judge nor the jury are expected to have been involved personally in a case which conies before them. Indeed, the fact that they were directly concerned would be sufficient grounds for them to be excluded from hearing the case or being responsible for assessing the evidence. 1 have considered with the greatest care the evidence in the form of the tabled documents and the speech given by the honourable member for Farrer. I have drawn my own conclusions from them, completely free from any personal involvement. However, I do not press the legal analogy because I have tried to avoid making my assessment on legal grounds. Not being trained in the law I am not competent to do so. I have not been concerned with determining whether, if any agreement was undertaken or made, it was - to use the phrase of the honourable member for Farrer - 'legally enforceable' but in determining whether it was a firm commitment in the sense in which these words arc used in these circumstances. 
Unfortunately, time will not permit me to deal in detail with what I believe are relevant matters concerning earlier meetings, particularly the March meeting prior to the meeting of 26th September, but I shall, because of the limitation of time, have to confine my assessment largely to the transcript of that meeting. At the meeting of 3rd March the honourable member for Farrer, as the Minister for National Development, was authorised by Federal Cabinet to make a specific offer to the States; that is, that the States should control mineral resources out to the 3 mile limit and the Commonwealth from the 3 mile limit to the end of the continental shelf. He made this offer and the States rejected it and came up with a counter offer at the meeting on 26th September. As I understand it, this automatically negates the original offer by the Commonwealth. The States having rejected this offer and having put forward an offer of their own, the original Commonwealth offer could only be reconsidered if it was put forward again. As far as future discussion was concerned the honourable member for Farrer said, according to page 3 of the transcript of the meeting on 26th September:  tt would be quite impossible for me lo say what the Government is likely to do not knowing, firstly, whether we will be the Government after the election and. secondly, whether I will be the Minister. 
Whatever the honourable member might have said subsequently - and I will come to that later - 1 find it impossible to read into this statement a commitment on behalf of the Federal Government to hold prior consultations with the States on the subject of respective legal rights and responsibilities in this matter. The honourable member makes it quite clear that the uncertain circumstances at the time in view of the approaching election made it impossible for him to give any firm undertaking. Later, according to page 3 the honourable member for Farrer said: 
At the present moment our plans ure lo have a Minerals Council meeting sometime in February. 
Here again is the implication that obviously things could change and he could not give a firm undertaking. In his speech on 8th May the honourable member for Farrer said: 
I undertook . . . that before me Commonwealth took any action there would bc further consultations with the States. 
This, of course, is the crux of the matter. I put it to the House that in view of the honourable member's earlier statement - and it is so important that I shall give it again: ii  would be quite impossible for mc to say what the Government is likely to do not knowing, firstly, whether we will be the Government after the election and. secondly, whether I will be  the  Minister. 
I think it is, to say the least, extremely doubtful whether the Minister, as he then was, considered he could give such an undertaking. 
But let us examine exactly to what the then Minister was referring when he gave that undertaking; that is, assuming he was in a position to give it. From his speech in the House today it is obvious that the honourable member for Farrer considers that the undertaking referred to the legislation before this House. This interpretation is not shared by the other Federal Minister who was present and this was apparent also in that Minister's speech today. The interpretation of the honourable member for Farrer is not borne out by the transcript. I refer now to the last sentence on page 3 and the first half of page 4. I assume that this is the part of the proceedings referred to by the honourable member in which he says he gave the undertaking. On page 3 the honourable member said: 
One thing of course is that there were a great many permits allocated by the States for oil before any sort of agreement was arrived at and the same situation docs not apply at the present moment so far as off-shore minerals. 
I assume the words 'are concerned' have been omitted in error. The quotation continues: 
What I would seek to do is to take this matter to Cabinet and have further discussion on it. We will look at the proposal which you have brought forward. The difficulty of course from your point of view is how  iO  proceed in the cases where we have applications. There are a number of applications for permits before the States. Regarding the applications before the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth certainly would not intend to take any action on any of these before it has further discussions with the State Ministers. 
It is perfectly clear from this quotation that in referring to further discussion with the State Ministers the honourable member for Farrer was quite specifically referring to further discussions on applications for permits - not the matter of prior consultation on Federal/State jurisdiction. 
In his speech in this House on 8th May 1970 the honourable member quoted  Mr Griffith  as saying: 
The State Ministers note that the Commonwealth proposal envisages State control of territorial waters, but the Ministers believe that a cooperative scheme extending to both territorial waters and the continental shelf and based on a pooling of legislative competence is desirable in the national interest. 
The honourable member for Farrer then said: 
This statement, of course, arose from an offer 1 was authorised to make by Cabinet to the State Governments. I now ask honourable members to look at page 3 of this document. I  -  not David Fairbairn but the Minister for National Development - accepted the proposition that there would be further discussions on this matter. 
I stress again that 'this matter' was not that referred to by  Mr Griffith;  it was the matter of permits. 1 remind the House that the matter of permits is to be dealt with in a separate Bill which has not yet been introduced to this House. On page 6 of the transscript of the meeting of 26th September  Mr Griffith  clearly accepts that the honourable member for Farrer was referring to the matter of permit applications and, indeed, every State Minister comments confirming this fact, as does the then Attorney-General in his comments appearing on page 11. The then Attorney-General said: 
. On any view I think the Minister would be asking for consultation on the grant of further licences - not, as the Prime Minister has also pointed out in his statement this morning, consultation prior to legislation. 
On page IS of the transcript the honourable member for Farrer again refers to leases when he says: 
For the present 1. think the situation is: Do you believe that between now and when any further action can be taken by the Commonwealth in this no leases should be granted? If you don't then there are only two ways in which they can be granted. One is with the co-operation of the Commonwealth after consultation between the two of us in which case we would do our utmost to pick up the tab afterwards whatever the system is. 
On page 17 the honourable member returns to this problem of making commitments pending the results of the Federal election and he says: 
One of our difficulties in '.his is the time-table. The writs are nol returned until 1 think November 24th so no new Cabinet can be announced until that date. After that undoubtedly I will put your representations to the Government - if I still happen to be the responsible Minister. Obviously it is going to take some short time after that before this can be considered by the Federal Government I am prepared to meet the Ministers for Mines as soon as possible after we have had an opportunity of discussing this in the Cabinet but it would obviously be essential before that Mines meeting that we should have had this opportunity of some discussions and as you all know you cannot always get an immediate decision. Perhaps we could have a meeting just before Christmas but I don't see much chance of anything before that. 
In my view anyway this can hardly be interpreted as a firm commitment, although subsequently 15th December was set as  a  tentative date for the meeting. I now draw the attention of the House to the bottom of page 1 8 where  Mr Griffith  says: 
Bearing in mind  Mr Chairman  that you have got the next 4 weeks very fully occupied and there is not much time after that before this proposed meeting would it not be just as well to come to an understanding that the Sates should be able to continue to issue these permits without having to confer with you upon the point? What is the purpose of conference on this? 
On page 19  Mr Fife  says: 
Further to that is the purpose for legal reasons or for policy reasons? 
The honourable member for Farrer then said: 
No, I think the purpose is to see that the Commonwealth has a responsibility in this area just as every State has. We have certain guidelines which we want to see applied. We would not want to see areas which we felt were too large. 
Clearly this is the question of permits and leases to which he is referring. The quotation continues: 
You may have exactly the same view there. We would want to see if there was a selection, for example, between a wholly owned overseas company and a company which had some Australian content. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting [ was making detailed references to the transcript of the meeting of 26th September. At the bottom of page 18 I was referring to a passage where  Mr Griffith  said: 
. What is the purpose of conference on this? 
This being the matter of the issuing of permits. On the top of page 19  Mr Fife  said: 
Further to that is (he purpose for legal reasons or for policy reasons? 

 Mr Fairbairn replied: 
No, I think the purpose is to see that the Commonwealth has a responsibility in this area just as every State has. 
I continued that quotation for a little longer prior to the suspension of the sitting, but I repeat only a portion of it to give some continuity to what I have to say now. Obviously the tentative December meeting was to discuss this matter of permit applications. I now turn to page 22 where  Mr Fife  says: 
I think that as it is an interim period we want to keep it as streamlined as possible. It might only work for3 months. 
Here there is a clear assumption that Commonwealth legislation will have been passed and that the matter to be negotiated related to the permits. However, on page 36 in reference to the possible meeting on 15th December  Mr Griffith  said: 
I think it should be off. 
On page 37 he suggested that the Mineral Council should meet in May. The honourable member for Farrer said: 
All right. And we would have an interim meeting as soon as we are ready to discuss this particular matter, and have a later meeting in May. 
From a study of the pages preceding this quotation it is absolutely clear that the particular matter referred to by the honourable member for Farrer for discussion at an interim meeting is that of permits. The conclusionsI have reached after a most detailed and exhaustive study of the relevant documents are as follows: In my opinion the honourable member for Farrer when acting as  Chairman  of the Australian Mineral Council at the meeting of 26th September expressed the view that because of the impending election it was impossible for him to know what the Government would do or whether he would be in a position to influence its actions or decisions. In full realisation of the limitations imposed on him by this situation - that is, the limitations on making commitments either on behalf of the Government or himself as Minister - he made tentative arrangements for a CommonwealthState meeting in February for the specific purpose of discussing the problem of off-shore mineral leases and permits. I emphasise again that the legislation referring to this matter has not yet been introduced into this Parliament. In the circumstances I do not consider that a firm commitment was entered into by the honourable member for Farrer on behalf of the Government for Commonwealth-State discussions prior to the introduction of the present legislation. It follows therefore that the Government cannot be held to have dishonoured a firm commitment. What I do believe is that this matter has provided a classic example of how different but honest interpretations can be placed on a given body of facts and evidence and I repeat what I said at the beginning, that my conclusions have been reached after an objective study of the material before me. May I also add one final point: Despite the nature of these conclusions my researches in this matter have given me a new appreciation of the negotiating skill of the honourable member for Farrer and have increased the high regard which I have always had for his integrity and personal qualities. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Will the Commonwealth Government support the strong opposition by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers' Council to increases  in rates of freight for wool in the AustraliaUnited Kingdom Europe trade and, until the Australia-United Kingdom ' Shippers Association and its constituent organisations have had sufficient time to review and to investigate any proposal put forward by the Australian Tonnage Committee, support the extension of the existing agreement for the 1970-71 season and, because of the comparative disadvantages suffered by wool in the freight rates charged and the current low wool prices, support a 15% reduction in the rate of freight for wool? 
I should first of all like to compliment the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on the persistence and patience he has shown over a long period in getting this legislation before the House. It is certainly not his responsibility that there has been such a long delay between the time when this reconstruction scheme was first foreshadowed and the actual presentation of the legislation that we have today. I think everybody agrees that reconstruction is a vital necessity in the dairy industry. It is a matter of concern to many of us that a great many hard working Australians arc not sharing in the general prosperity of this country. According to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, over half the dairy farmers in Australia are earning less than $2,000 per annum. Of course, this affects some thousands of farmers and their families. 
We have heard a great deal over the years of the alleged inefficiency of the dairy industry. This term 'inefficiency' can be used in many ways, but in popular usage it is not always used in the strict economic sense. There is an implied criticism of the farmers themselves. 1 think that in the main this charge of inefficiency when applied to the personal standard of performance of the farmers is generally unfair. Undoubtedly there are pockets of this type of inefficiency in the dairy industry, just as there are in practically every form of industry, both primary and secondary. But judged by objective criteria, the efficiency standards of the Australian dairy industry are high. In fact, they are very high. They are exceeded by only one dairying industry in the world, that of New Zealand. 
The main trouble that the dairying industry faces, as has been mentioned tonight, is the difficulty of competing on world markets, which have their prices gravely affected by the quite extravagant price support programmes of the European Economic Community. These policies are outside Australia's control but I think it should be pointed out that whether they are outside, our control or not the dairying industry will continue to have to face these cost price pressures. Clearly the long term objective for the industry must be to try to concentrate it on the land most suitable to it because only then will we get the most efficient use of resources and a dairying industry better able to remain competitive and to resist the pressures to which it will continue to be subjected. This legislation is aimed primarily, of course, at the difficulties of the small producer, but in talking about the difficulties of the small producer - in this case particularly the dairy farmer - I think there are lessons to be learned in looking at the situation of small producers generally, because the increasing difficulties of the small producer are not restricted to primary industry. With advances in technologies leading to revolutions in manu facturing processes the world picture of production of all kinds is changing more rapidly than at any time in history. One thing is certain, and that is that any nation which does not recognise this fact and adapt its industries of all kinds to deal with it will be left behind and will lose its competitive position in world trade. 
As one of the great trading nations of the world we just cannot afford to find ourselves in this position and, as I said on a previous occasion in this House, Australia must keep up with the world because the world will not slow down for us. Because of these changing economic circumstances I feel that the Government has an obligation to develop policies to make some provision for those farmers who find themselves in a situation where they have no prospect of earning an adequate income. This legislation recognises this fact. But it is also vitally necessary for the Government to encourage in the country economic and efficient primary production. It is necessary not merely for those concerned in the industries but because for the foreseeable future Australia will depend on the export earnings of primary industry to remain nationally solvent. Even with the latest projections of earnings from minerals and manufactures, the proportion of export earnings represented by primary industry will still be critically important for many years ahead. 
With the current difficulties facing many primary products to find world markets there is an urgent need to identify the products for which a market can bc expected. 1 would like to congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry on his recent announcement of the expansion of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics designed to improve the Bureau's capacity to issue production and market forecasts to help farmers to make decisions on their future production. Obviously Australian farmers will have to be increasingly flexible in their approach to farming. I think one of the main aspects of this legislation is to try to deter farmers away from the production of butterfat, for which the land has been used in the past, into some alternative form of production. But it would be very difficult to identify which form of production to enter unless adequate information was available. I welcome recent expansion in the Bureau's activities in this regard. 
It seems to me that the Government has two problems which are largely separate. The first, as I mentioned earlier, is to make reasonable financial provision for those who find themselves in the situation where they wish to leave an industry because they no longer have prospects to earn adequately in it. The second is to enable those who remain in primary industry to earn a living commensurate with that of the rest of the community without becoming a perpetual and an increasing burden on the taxpayer. To solve these problems I bel'ieve that separate and distinct policies will be required, but the problems must be tackled. Not only the future prosperity of primary industry is at stake but, for the reasons I have just mentioned, the soundness of the Australian economy itself is also directly involved. 
While I congratulate the Government on this realistic and progressive legislation, I am seriously disturbed that at present only farmers in Western Australia and, 1 understand, Tasmania, will be able to benefit from it. It is an unfortunate fact that there are dairy farmers in other States who would welcome the opportunity to have access to the funds provided in this legislation but because of the lack of co-operation at the State level they will be denied access to them. I sincerely hope that the introduction of this legislation will encourage and act as a spur to the other States to join Western Australia and Tasmania in helping the small farmer to obtain a reasonable standard of living because after all that is what the legislation is designed to do. 
I also trust that the realistic and constructive attitude to both the social and economic problems facing farmers and many primary producers of all kinds which is evident in the legislation will be applied &lt;o other rural industries. I am thinking now in particular of the wool industry because the problems and difficulties which led to the need for the reconstruction scheme for the dairy industry are present in the wool industry and are rapidly becoming more acute. I know that my colleagues on this side of the House, including the Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  share my great concern at the current financial situation of wool growers and would join me, I feel sure, in expressing the hope that in recognition of the similarity between the problems faced by the wool and dairy industries the Government will initiate policies on broadly similar lines to attack these problems and that the wool industry too will have access to long term finance at reasonable rates of interest as provided in this legislation. 
In the meantime 1 have much pleasure in supporting this Bill and welcoming it as a constructive effort to deal with the rapidly developing problems of primary industry which finds itself competing for resources in a rapidly developing industrial economy. I think that this kind of approach will serve us well. I hope that it is the precursor of more legislation of this type in other branches of primary industry. 
I regret that time will not permit me to reply to all the points raised by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  but I would like to refer briefly to the matter of the AA107 advanced supersonic trainer and close support aircraft for which the Royal Australian Air Force had an initial requirement of 30. The honourable member inferred we should have gone ahead with this project. During the period of the design study for the AA107 aircraft the RAAF reassessed its requirements in the light of experience that was being obtained in Vietnam. During a recent speech in Melbourne the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  explained quite clearly why the Australian Government had decided not to participate in this project; it was because the RAAFs experience in Vietnam had demonstrated that for close support operations helicopter gunships had many attractions. The Minister has already announced that we will order them. Concurrent studies within the RAAF indicated that as far as advanced supersonic training was concerned the specially equipped dual-control Mirage aircraft would deal with this requirement 
So it seems to me that if we follow through the argument of the honourable member for Blaxland we must conclude that the Opposition wants the Royal Australian Air Force to be required to accept aircraft it does not want, and nothing could be more disastrous to the interests of the Service. The sort of results which would come from the Opposition's determination to make the RAAF dependent on Australian production, irrespective of the wishes or requirements of the RAAF, would inevitably lead to a lower standard of capacity for the Air Force. 
It seems to me that there is a mistaken belief that an Australian aircraft industry automatically means a factory producing complete aircraft. Nothing could be further from the truth. Such a concept is long out of date. The great overseas manufacturers such as Boeing, Douglas and the British Aircraft Corporation not only arrange for the manufacture of component parts by many different companies within their own country, but in Europe it is practically universal for the design and construction of aircraft to be a multi-national responsibility. 
The Australian idea of an aircraft industry is probably a legacy of the early days of this industry. Of course, we had an aircraft industry before we had a motor car industry. In those days we had the complete aircraft coming from under the one roof. So far as I am aware, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation is the only factory in the world which manufactures both airframes and engines. Australians have become used to seeing one factory producing the complete aircraft. This was economically possible when aircraft were a lot less sophisticated and complex than they are today. But the manufacture of modern aircraft, particularly military aircraft, involves many separate industries and trades. To try to get all those industries and trades under one roof makes it extremely difficult to achieve any benefit from economies of scale. Of course, this highlights the major difficulty and disability under which the Australian aircraft industry operates. Our small population and our small requirement in terms of numbers of aircraft, whether for military or civil purposes, makes it impossible to achieve the long production runs of the various components, if the complete aircraft is to be produced. This in turn leads to high unit costs of production and difficulty of achieving export sales. 
Aircraft normally have quite a long useful life. Therefore an aircraft tends to be still in production after the initial order has been completed by the factory or factories concerned. This in turn makes it difficult to achieve the continuity about which the Opposition seems to be so concerned. If the production of a given type of aircraft is extended over a long period, the RAAF in particular will be faced with having many different types in service at the one time. I personally believe that the future of the aircraft industry in Australia will increasingly be in the component field, with relatively long production runs. This in turn, as the Minister has said, will require that the industry gets out and looks for business and in particular tenders for work outside Australia when it gets the opportunity to do so. It has been shown that we can do this. Hawker de Havilland has been successful in tendering against American opposition for Bell helicopter rotor hubs and delivering them to the west coast of America. This is an outstanding example of private enterprise initiative which could well be followed by other firms. 
It seems to me that the prime requirement for an Australian aircraft industry should be to have a nucleus of design staff, testing facilities and productive capacity capable of rapid expansion in an emergency to meet the needs of the armed Services. This is the prime requirement. As the Minister said, the work load on the industry at the present time - the industry's production was valued at $300m over the last 10 years and $40m last year - shows that we are maintaining our basic requirements. The Jindivik and Ikara are still in production. Design and development work is being carried out on a pilotless target drone aircraft, Turana. The Government has given the go-ahead for the production of prototypes of Project N. The Macchi with its Viper engine are still in production and like the Minister, I trust that New Zealand will see the wisdom of obtaining its requirements from its nearest neighbour. 
The Government has announced that its choice of light observation helicopter will be determined by the proportion of manufacture sub-contracted to local industry. This would be a pretty big order. The same opportunity may present itself in the case of medium lift helicopters. Every effort is being made to get work for local industry from United States firms. The Government has announced a co-ordinated programme to promote overseas sales of Australian made equipment and components, and to encourage co-operative research and development projects between Australia and overseas industries. I maintain that these facts alone make nonsense of the terms of the matter of public importance that the Opposition has put before the House. 
It is appropriate that the wool industry should be debated at this time, but before I make my own contribution to this debate I should like to refer to a matter raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and that is the question of the protective lobby in the United States of America and Japanese exports to that country. We need to get this in perspective. The Japanese domestic market absorbs 80% of her wool purchases. Only 20% is exported, and only a portion of that 20% goes to the United Slates. Japan exports large quantities of yarn and wool products to Russia and other countries. So while I agree that any increase in protection which might be applied in the United States is detrimental to Australia, we should keep in mind its relative importance. The wool industry is facing formidable problems but I agree with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  who said in his second reading speech: 
. that wilh sound planning, the application of modern business techniques and management, combined with the resilience that wool growers have displayed over the years, the present problems can be tackled, and I believe, surmounted. 
That phrase 'the application of modern business techniques and management' holds the key to the future of wool, and this legislation will go at least a part of the way to encourage and facilitate the adoption of these practices in the industry. It is this approach which will determine the ability of wool to survive in a modern industrial society; not the subsidy hand-out approach. 
The honourable member for Dawson referred to the need for tariff protection for secondary industry on the one hand and subsidies for primary industries on the other. I would hope that the honourable member is not implying that our tariff structure is perfect and presents an ideal model for our primary industries to follow. I hope to be saying something on this subject in the near future in this House. The fact is that the policy of subsidies for primary products has in the long term been unsuccessful whenever and wherever it has been applied. I admit that subsidies on outputs have been introduced with the best intentions of helping industries, but it is a matter of established fact that they have ended up harming the industries they were designed to help and making eventual solutions to the industries' problems even more difficult. The experience of the last 20 years proves that they just do not work. With these historical examples to guide us, for goodness sake do not let us think that wool will be an exception. In the present critical economic situation facing the wool industry, there is a greater danger than usual that short term political considerations may override sound long term economic arguments. 
Over the last few years the Minister has invariably displayed a courageous and responsible attitude to the many and pressing problems confronting him, and I have no doubt that he will continue to do so in the case of the wool industry. But there is no doubt that the wool industry operates under severe disabilities in Australia today, buying many of its inputs on a protected home market, facing steep cost rises due in large part to Government policies of rapid national economic development, and selling its outputs at the lowest price for 20 years on the open world market. It is reasonable that under such conditions the wool industry should look for and expect to receive some special consideration. As I have just explained, the great fallacy would be to believe that a subsidy would solve the problem. It would not. It would merely compound the problem and make the solution more difficult. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the best, and indeed the only approach which will allow the wool growers to retain their independence and at the same time avoid the very real dangers of an open ended commitment for the taxpayer, is a reconstruction scheme on the lines broadly similar to the dairy industry reconstruction scheme recently passed by this House. That is, growers of proven managerial ability who wish to extend their scale of operations should have access to long term finance at reasonable interest rates, and I feel that provision should also be made for vocational re-training for those who wish to leave the industry. Certainly this will cost the taxpayer money, but the result will be a decline in dependence on the public purse rather than the inevitable increase in dependence which would be the result of the subsidy or cost compensation alternative approach. 
I ask the Government as a matter of urgency to consider the introduction of a scheme such as I have outlined. It would restore confidence in the industry, provide some degree of stability for declining land values and prove of immense value in safeguarding the future of our towns and communities in wool growing areas. 
I congratulate the Government on its generous and realistic offer to increase the Commonwealth's contribution to research and promotion by about $13m to $27m. This measure alone will relieve the grower of an average of about $1.20 per bale. I do not intend to refer in detail to the excellent work done by the various research organisations associated with the wool industry individually but 1 must mention a particularly outstanding example of cooperative effort. This was the invention and development of an entirely new technique and machine for wool spinning, or rather, wool twisting. The initial research and development work was done by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Textile Research Laboratories at Belmont and the subsequent translation of its basic work into commercial practical hardware was done by Repco Ltd. As a result of that project Australia leads the world in this field of textile engineering and the competitive position of wool in the multi-textile battle has been improved. 
I note from the Bill and the Minister's second reading speech that the allocation of research funds in the future will be rather more under the control of the Minister. This seems reasonable as the Government will be greatly increasing its contribution. 1 now ask the Minister whether the question of research into shearing, or perhaps more accurately research into getting wool off the sheep, will receive a high priority in research. In my opinion the threat posed to the wool industry by shearing costs is comparable to that posed by synthetic fibres. The percentage of the total wool clip represented by shearing costs is 4 times greater than it was 20 years ago and at the present rate could double again in 7 years. It is very doubtful whether the wool industry can survive this colossal burden. One of the largest components of the cost of shearing is wages and clearly it is unrealistic to expect that shearing industry wages will increase at a slower rate than that of the rest of the economy. 
Indeed, having spent many hours at the wrong end of a down tube I have first hand appreciation of the hard work involved in the shearing operation. It seems to me that if shearing costs are to be significantly reduced there will have to be some fundamental re-thinking on the whole subject of getting wool off sheep. Certainly such innovations as the Tally Hi method of shearing, coated combs and cutters and improved hand pieces have been of some help but. they do not attack the tremendous problem of the labour cost. We have spent an enormous amount of money and research effort over the years in getting wool onto sheep; we now have reached a stage where it has become an urgent necessity to mount an equivalent programme of research into getting it off. 
I am sure that all those interested in the industry will welcome the proposal to enable the Australian Wool Board to borrow funds to build wool complexes should present investigations show this to be desirable. I am convinced that integrated wool centres where wool can be received, objectively tested, stored, sold, dumped and prepared for shipping are an essential requirement for future cost savings in the industry. 
The next question which arises is: What sort of organisation will be responsible for selling the wool clip in these complexes or centres? We have heard a great deal in recent times about the support from wool growers for a single selling or marketing authority. There are many opinions on what is meant by such an authority and what its powers should be. I do not intend to go into the subject tonight but what I would like to say is that while I appreciate the many potential advantages of such an authority if all the potential benefits are to be realised the management of the authority wil'l have to be of the very highest standard. I hope that if such an authority is formed every possible effort will be made to get the most able men in Australia to run it. It will need men with a wide knowledge of business and marketing techniques and, as a wool grower myself, it would not worry me if they came from outside the industry. 
I want to make one final point. Monopolies of any kind are not conducive to the taking of dynamic initiatives, nor to quick reaction to a situation indicating the need for change. Therefore I feel it would be a considerable advantage if a private enterprise marketing organisation could be given the opportunity to operate in competition with any authority which might be established. If the private organisation could not show advantages for those who dealt with it, like any other business in similar circumstances, it would lose clients and probably its backers would lose their money. However if successful it would provide the eminently desirable element of competition in the marketing of our wool and a most valuable stimulus to innovation and efficiency in all aspects of the industry. I support the Bill and trust that my suggestions will receive consideration by the Government. 
Like all honourable members who are interested in this topic I appreciate one of the relatively few opportunities we have to debate the vitally important topic of tariffs. As my friend and colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has said, a remarkable change in climate has taken place during the last few years - even since I first started speaking on this subject - but modesy and honesty prevent me taking any credit for that. As the honourable member said, a much greater awareness exists of the importance of tariffs in influencing the cost structure in the Australian economy by directly increasing the price of goods to consumers and, more importantly, because of the pervasive influence of excessive tariff protection throughout the economy. I have spoken on this aspect of tariff protection before. 1 do not intend to cover that subject again. It is quite apparent that the prime objective of all Australian industry must be to become competitive on the world market. 
Recently our primary industries have been almost alone in facing the problems of buying on a protected market and selling on an open market. It is a remarkable compliment to our farming community that ii has succeeded in increasing production substantially when faced with such disabilities. lt must never be forgotten that it has been possible to establish secondary industry in Australia only under the protection of the foreign exchange earnings of primary industry. But now the position has been reached where our secondary industry is no longer able to depend entirely on the domestic market for its existence. If the Australian consumer is not to be denied the benefits of lower prices and better products as a result of new technologies and economies of scale, secondary industry must increasingly look towards the export market to absorb its growing productive capacity. lt took a long time for this fact to' receive official acceptance, but fortunately it has now been accepted, and it is a measure of the change in climate to which I referred a moment ago that- is now almost taken for granted. The first indication came in  Sir Alan  Westerman's speech to the Australian Chemical Industry Council last year when ho said: 
The alternative to making the world our market for secondary industries is ossified, stultified secondary industry based on products with smaller domestic opportunities and hence relying upon higher and higher tariff barriers wilh a decreasing rate of development and meriting the description uneconomic and inefficient. 
This was followed by several references by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in the ensuing months in broadly similar terms. For example, in his address to the Western Australian Chamber of Manufactures on 10th April this year the Prime Minister said: 
We think that in many fields of manufacture Australian enterprise must be much more massive than is the case in much of Australian industry, if there are to be economies of scale to enable that industry to compete on a world market and to compete in Australia wilh overseas industry with a minimum of tariff protection. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr M c Ewen)  in a recent debate in this House relating to the Australian Industry Development Corporation had this to say:  lt must aim especially at expanding exports on a world-competitive basis, and enhancing our long-term balance of payments position, lt must seek to enable Australian industry to conserve our foreign exchange by competing with imports without recourse to high  tariff  barriers. 
It is certain that Australian industry will be able to face the challenge of world competition only if it is soundly based and not relying on excessive - again I stress the word 'excessive' - tariff protection for its existence. Since the publication of the Tariff Board Report for 1967-68 a great deal of attention has been focused on the rates of protection received by various industries, and the principles enunciated by the Tariff Board on which it intends to base its future investigations and consequent recommendations to the Government. The fact that a great deal of attention has been given to the Tariff Board's annual reports has not, unfortunately, invariably resulted in informed comment on them. 1 have been amazed at some of the quite mistaken conclusions drawn from those reports and at the way in which those conclusions have been constantly reiterated even after it has been demonstrated quite clearly that those conclusions are wrong. 
I am referring now particularly to the question of industries receiving, or requiring, protection at an effective rate exceeding 50%. No other item in recent Tariff Board reports has been so misinterpreted or caused so much uninformed criticism. Typical of the sort of comment is the use of such terms as arbitrary limit, cut-off point and similar expressions. Anyone who was prepared to spend some time investigating and objectively assessing just what the Board said in its 1967 and 1968 reports must have realised that such a reaction was completely unjustified. In view of subsequent events, including the assurance of the  Chairman  of the Board to the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia last year and the policy speech of the Prime Minister before the last general election, I find it extraordinary that some people and organisations are persisting in this attitude. First of all, let us see what  Mr Rattigan  said to ACMA in answer to the question: Do the Board's points of reference provide a predetermined upper limit to protection? 
Yes,  Mr Rattigan  is  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. He answered: 
The points of reference do not provide a predetermined upper limit to protection. 
He then went on to explain exactly why. In his policy speech the Prime Minister said: 
The Government does not accept any predetermined upper limit to the level of protection that might be afforded. 
Why then, even as recently as a couple of weeks ago, do we find statements such as that made by the  President  of the Australian Industries Development Association which in the annual report of that Association said: lt- 
The Tariff Board - is doing this to its own policy of a 50% effective upper rate of limit. 
I must admit that 1 was very disappointed to hear these comments when recent statements from the same source have given great cause for encouragement. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask: Why keep on ascribing to the Tariff Board the concept which its Chairman has quite distinctly denied and which the Prime Minister has said would not be acceptable to the Government in any case? 1 must admit that the answer to this seemingly insoluble puzzle took me some time to work out. But I believe I have now found the answer. Criticism of the Tariff Board on the basis that it has fixed a 50% upper limit to protection is a type of criticism which most people can understand. Incidentally, it might be worth pointing out that those involved with industries already receiving protection of over 50% in fact seem to grasp this argument rather more quickly than others. 
Let us look exactly at what the Tariff Board said at paragraph 44 of its annual report for 1967-68. The Tariff Board stated: 
In the case of areas of production which arc found to have little prospect of operating with an effective rate below 30%, the Board would not recommend protection sufficient to allow the industries concerned to compete for resources on the same terms as low cost industries. 
In their excitement and agitation at the reference to 50%, very few people have taken the trouble to find out what in fact were the terms under which protection would be recommended for low cost industries. These terms were spelled out in detail in paragraphs 63, 72 and 74 of the 1967 report. 1 would like to give them as follows- 
These are the terms according to the Tariff Board's 1 967 annual report on which protection would be given to low cost industries. The honourable member for Sturt might learn something from this. The terms are as follows: 
lt will recommend anticipatory protection for new products or for an extension of existing range of products which can bc produced economically in Australia: 
Protection would be readily recommended; 
Protection would be recommended on a basis offering prospects of greater profitability; 
The level of protection would not be subject to review in the normal course of events or al least not for a very long time. Thus a manufacturer would be able to benefit from any improvement in the profitability of his operations without the Tariff Board looking over his shoulder. 
Those were the terms on which low cost industries are to get protection. So all the Board has said is that these conditions would not apply to industries receiving or requiring protection of over 50%. Immediately it can be appreciated why the criticism of the Board is largely based on the erroneous grounds that an upper limit has been fixed. It is much easier to try to get support for this argument with its considerable emotional content than to try to justify protection for industries requiring over 50% under the same terms as the low cost industries. In fact, such an argument cannot be justified because if it could there would be no reason for having a Tariff Board at all. 
Carried to ils logical conclusion this argument would say that an industry requiring 100% protection and whose inputs are all duty free - that is whose effective rate of protection is 100% - is entitled to the same degree of consideration as an industry with an unprotected output but which has to pay a tariff of 100% for all its inputs. This, of course, is an extreme example. But the whole point of having a Tariff Board is so that the Government can get expert and impartial advice on the relative benefit and cost to the community of protecting industry. For the critics of the Board to say that it is exceeding its function when it indicates it is developing more precise methods on which to base its advice to the Government is in effect to deny the need for a board altogether. 
It has always seemed axiomatic to me that an industry requiring a high rate of protection - a rate that is high by Australian standards - will impose correspondingly higher costs to the community than another with a lower protective requirement. This has been spelt out by the  chairman  of the Board when, in answer to a question from ACMA, he said: 
The Board's approach recognises that activities which by Australian standards, are highly protected will tend to be less economic to undertake in Australia than activities which require a relatively low level of protection because the cost of such activities to the community is likely to be high in relation to the benefits gained by die community from having such activities. It has therefore indicated that it will in future examine such activities more critically, because their uncritical support is incompatible with the Government's tariff policy and with the settled objectives of national economical policy. 
The Prime Minister himself, in his policy speech said: 
The Government recognises that in cases involving relatively high protection the benefits have to be weighed very carefully against the possible effects on other industries and the community generally. 
I feel that the great import of this sentence has not received the attention or publicity it deserves. It marks official acceptance at Government level of a concept that is fundamental to a rational tariff policy. What do we find on looking at the ALP tariff policy. In October last, just prior to the general election, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns)  published a paper on protection. As he is the ALP's chief spokesman on trade, presumably it was and still is the current ALP policy. As I studied the paper, I was strongly reminded of a radio commentator who used to describe wrestling contests many years ago. With his voice rising to a tremendous pitch of excitement he used to shout: *He can't get out of it, he can't get out of it.' The honourable member for Lalor is trying to reconcile the irreconcilable, in trying to match a sound tariff policy with the historic ALP policy of uncritical high protection, has also found himself unable to get out of it. But whereas the wrestling commentator used to end up by saying with a great sigh of relief: 'He's out of it,' alas, the honourable member for Lalor's mental gymnastics were less successful than the wrestler's physical ones and he ended up being more hopelessly entangled than when he started. This is really a remarkable document and I should like to make a couple of references to it. For instance at one point the honourable member for Lalor said: 
Let me return to my main thesis at this point: neither a freer trade policy, nor the existing policy of protection; nor a policy of higher protection, will meet the needs of Australian industry. 
In other words, we cannot go up, we cannot go down, and we cannot stay where we are. I suggest this conjures up all sorts of interesting possibilities. Further on, the honourable member for Lalor advocated the establishment of an industrial council made up of representatives of primary and secondary industries to plan future developments in their respective industries. But then it appears that this council will direct its influence to a tribunal which may be something like the Tariff Board. The honourable member went on to say:  . . maybe something like the Tariff Board but it would be a fully informed body, expert and objective and capable of making recommendations for the development of industry far more extensive than now. 
So from somewhere out of the blue we are going to find people able to do the job of the present Tariff Board, but they will be better informed, more experienced and more objective than the Board's present members. This collection of Solomons will presumably have no trouble in making recommendations to solve all our problems. However, towards the end of his statement the honourable member for Lalor said: 
We have travelled the correct road for industrial development in Australia by adoption of comprehensive high tariff policy. 
And later he said: 
It is upon this road we must continue to travel 
So at last members of the Australian Labor Party are back where they started. So much for the tariff policy of the ALP. Until the honourable member for Lalor, as the chief spokesman for the Opposition, gives some indication that he is willing to reassume the responsible stand that he once took on this subject, 1 can see little prospect of a rational critical, protection policy from the other side of the House. 
I should like to refer briefly to two specific reports before us in this legislation. The first is the Tariff Board Report on Man Made Fibres and Yarns. As has been said by several honourable members, this is indeed a most significant report not only because of the extent and importance of the industry to which it refers but also because of the principles which it embodies, the honourable member for Lalor has said that the Government has accepted this report. He said also that following the Government's acceptance of this recommendation the Textile Council of Australia put in the Press several full page advertisements expressing concern for the future of the industry which it said directly employed 150,000 people. But what the advertisement did not point out was that the vast majority of this work force has a vital interest in keeping the man made fibre tariff as low as possible. The Australian textile industry is constantly referring to the effects of low priced imports on sales of their products. One of the disabilities of the Australian textile industry is having to pay higher than world prices for yarn used in the fabrics manufactured. 
The reason the industry has to pay a higher price is because the principal supplier of yarn, Fibremakers Ltd has been forced to buy all of its raw material from its parent company, Imperial Chemical Industries at prices above those at which it could obtain raw material from other sources. Therefore in order to protect the 2.5% of the textile work force employed in one section of the industry denied access to raw materials at world prices the Textile Council argues that the Tariff Board had recommended inadequate protection for the whole industry. The only thing that surprises me is that the 97.5% of the textile industry work force which in order to remain competitive has a vital interest in obtaining its yarn as cheaply as possible, has not risen up in revolt at such an extraordinary attitude. I congratulate the Tariff Board on its recommendations aimed at safeguarding the employment and future stability of 97.5% of the work force in the industry and I congratulate the Government in accepting the Tariff Board's advice. 
The other report on which I should like to speak is the Special Advisory Authority's report on vegetable oils. I regret that I have no congratulatory comments to make on this report. Vegetable oils were the subject of a detailed and exhausive inquiry by the Tariff Board, which made its report in September 1968. Following this report, protection for most oils was determined at 40c a gallon. In its report the Tariff Board made these comments: 
The Board believes vegetable oilseed and oil production in Australia has the long term potential to become a highly efficient and economic industry capable of  producing  virtually all Australian requirements and of competing on export markets . . . 
The key to continuing economic linseed production sufficient for local needs thus appears to the Board to lie primarily with the development of a sustained1 demand. Demand can be sustained when production costs allow surplus seed to be exported at some profit . . . 
Consistent with these conclusions the Board suggests that these industries be again reviewed in 7 years when it would expect the protective requirements of linseed and  safflower  oils to be substantially less. 
Despite this, only 15 months after the Tariff Board report, the Special Advisory Authority has recommended an approximate 60% increase in protection. This recommendation incorporates all the classic ingredients for future trouble. First, it is an example of the shuttlecock system whereby the protection recommended by a Tariff Board report is referred back to the Special Advisory Authority which in turn recommends a substantially higher rate. By the very nature of their respective constitutions and methods of operation, I maintain that the Tariff Board is more likely to be right. Second, the Special Advisory Authority's report could result in making it possible to produce oil seeds in areas where otherwise it would not be profitable to do so. This would result in misallocation of resources and production which would be less capable of remaining competitive in world markets. The inevitable consequence of such production would operate against the best interests of those districts and those farmers who are the most efficient producers of vegetable oils and would endanger the export prospects of the industry. 
I make these comments as an oil seed grower myself who might therefore be expected to support the SAA report. However, for the foregoing reasons I consider the degree of protection it recommends will eventually prove detrimental to the industry, and I therefore felt it necessary to give this warning. 
Despite this last criticism, 1 feel that Australian tariff policy is gradually assuming the appearance of rationality and consistency. Australian industry's present situation might be compared to that facing a man who inherits an old ramshackle house built on poor foundations. He has to live in it for a while, but he can ensure that no further jerry built additions are stuck on willy-nilly. At the same time he can call in a competent architect to design him a new modern house built on sound foundations in which he will be able to live in safety and security. The architects of the Tariff Board are gradually evolving the design and structure which will house Australian industries of the future - not in the unhealthy atmosphere of the fragile hot bouse but in a strong building from which industries should be able to go out and do a good day's work for Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Defence a question. Is it a fact, as alleged in some reports, that the claims of Royal Australian Air Force flying personnel for increased flying pay have been ignored or rejected? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Trade and Industry been drawn to reports of the Australian Chemical Industry Council that sales and export earnings during 1969 increased by 12.6% and 27.1% respectively and that profits, after tax, based either on methods of calculation used by the Tariff Board or the industry, almost doubled during the same period? Does he agree that this indicates that the industry is experiencing vigorous growth and improving its competitive position? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives  in  Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Corangamite respectfully showeth. 
That they are gravely concerned al what they consider to be the adverse effect  on  moral standards in the Australian community  of  the increasing portrayal and description  of  obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel  of  the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
It is true that the proposed amendment of the honourable member for Denison  (Dr 
Solomon) would cut down the time allowed for debates. I do not agree that this approach is a denigration of Parliament. I think that there are obvious advantages to be gained in being able to speak more often. I find it quite extraordinary that certain honourable members seem to equate the time spent in a speech with the quality of its content. I feel that there is very little to recommend this attitude. However the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  brought up a matter about which 1 want to deal with specifically, and that is the question of the time for consideration of the Defence Estimates, those for the Department of Supply and the Service departments. They are 5 very important departments. Under the old system honourable members were permitted to speak for 15 minutes. As the honourable member for La Trobe pointed out should this amendment be agreed to honourable members will have only 10 minutes. 
I agree with the honourable member for La Trobe that 15 minutes was insufficient to debate 5 very important departmental estimates. But surely if we reduce that time to 10 minutes this will give the opportunity to divide those 5 departments. 1 suggest for the consideration of the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  that a suitable division might be 'Defence and Supply' under one heading of the Estimates and the 3 Service departments under another heading. The honourable member for La Trobe told me he would be happy if he could be guaranteed being able to speak twice for 10 minutes each time as opposed to one speech of 15 minutes to deal with all 5 items. In reducing the time for the Estimates debate to 10 minutes we would have an opportunity to split up the departments in a better fashion. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  mentioned the difficulty of dealing with trade, customs and excise and primary industry all under the one heading. T would like to see trade and customs and excise taken together under one heading and primary industry under another. I do not think the reduction to 10 minutes is automatically a disadvantage. I think that properly used this reduction could result in a far better subdivision of our Estimates debate. I put forward that suggestion for consideration by the Leader of the House. 

 Dr CASS (Maribymong) (11.21]- It seems there is a considerable misconception about the nature of the proposed amendments. There are 2 sets of proposals before the House, one set by the Standing Orders Committee and another proposed by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  Quite specifically his proposals, with which I agree, shorten times of debate from 40 minutes to 30 minutes for gentlemen on the front bench on both sides of the House, but not to the humble backbenchers. We don't get periods like that. He then proposes for humble backbenchers that times of 25 minutes be cut to 20 minutes. In the amendment we are not proposing any cuts in times other than the ones listed, that is, from 40 to 30 minutes and from 25 to 20 minutes. The proposals some honourable members are arguing about is the one put by the Standing Orders Committee. I hope that is clear. All I am interested in arguing about are the proposals which the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has put. These are listed on the paper the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  circulated and deal with cutting times generally from 40 minutes to 30 minutes or from 25 minutes to 20 minutes. In essence this has nothing to do with the total times of debate because that is not specified in any way in the Standing Orders. I would say, whether this is passed or not, the total time for debate is always at the discretion of the Government Parties. It is irrelevant to the amendments about which we are talking. The effect of these amendments will firstly ensure that a lot of the long speeches that go on for 45 minutes are cut to 30 minutes. I would dispute any suggestion that most of the speeches that go for 45 minutes are worth listening to for all that time. Any worthwhile speech by any honourable member on the front bench on either side can well be made in 30 minutes. I also feel that for backbenchers like myself 20 minutes is time enough for most of the occasions when I wish to speak on these items. I have observed - and I am prepared to include myself as being guilty with other honourable members - that the major point can be made in the first 5 minutes and the rest of the time is padding. I disagree with the way the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has interpreted the proposals. What we are proposing increases the opportunity for more members to say more because they will have more occasions on which to speak. Honourable members should not fall for the red herring that we are cutting down time. We are not cutting down the total time. In all the amendments we have adopted, we have not cut down the total time of sitting at all. 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes. A moment ago in a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  alleged that the Secretary of the Government Members Wool Committee, as I understood him, had travelled to Sydney on Wednesday to meet the International Wool Textile Organisation delegation. I am Secretary of that Committee. I did not go to Sydney on that occasion to meet the delegation. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Has his attention been drawn to statements made over the Australian Broadcasting Commission by the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Queensland, Professor Zelman Cowen, regarding the alleged lack of balance by the 'This Day Tonight* programme in reporting the recent disturbances at the University of Queensland? Is it a fact that the programme did not broadcast a videotaped discussion between the ViceChancellor and a staff member critical of the University administration? Has the ABC given as the reason why the segment was not shown that it was dull? Does this seem to indicate that the programme in this instance was concerned more with sensational rather than objective reporting? Has Professor Cowen protested to the Commission in strong terms over its treatment of this issue? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. In view of the general point made by a small number of commentators on Papua and New Guinea that the Pacific Islands Regiment in a postindependence situation might be inclined to take power because of its cohesiveness and discipline, can the Minister give an indication of what steps are being taken to inculcate a sense of political neutralism into the Pacific Islands Regiment? 
lt was my original intention in the debate on the defence estimates to speak of the need for the highest level inquiry into all aspects of service in the defence forces. It is now my pleasure to congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on his statement in the House a few days ago. The Minister's statement and the terms of reference that he specified for the high level inquiry fulfil all the requirements that could possibly be asked for on this subject. Defence expenditure on pay and allowances represents approximately S333m. lt is axiomatic even if it is sometimes forgotten that the tools are only as good as the workman who uses them. My point is that the performance of the Australian forces has earnt them a reputation second to none for the highest standards of professional competence. Their reputation has been and is being enhanced by the task force of all 3 Services at present operating in Vietnam. It is only just and reasonable therefore that the country should accept the responsibility of ensuring that these servicemen and women should bc paid at a level commensurate with their skills and the responsibilities they bear. What greater responsibility could anyone carry than the security and safety of his or her country? Not only should the pay reflect their responsibilities: the conditions of service in the widest sense deserve the same full and adequate recognition. 
Over recent years there has been a massive re-equipment programme for all 3 Services to enable Australia to undertake the growing defence responsibilities both at home and overseas which changed circumstances are forcing on us. The Government h;is made clear time and time again that the Australian Labor Party's negative defence attitude of limiting Australia's defence contribution to Australia itself - a policy which in all honesty I must restate has been made and forced upon the parliamentary members of the Australian Labor Party by their non-elected masters - is a repudiation of the responsibilities that we must show we are ready to share if we are to play the role in our geographic region made possible by our economic, industrial and technical power. This role will increasingly be concerned with the area to our west - that is, the Indian Ocean region. At the moment almost half - in fact, I am informed, about 46 per cent - of our trade goes over the Indian Ocean and this proportion is likely to increase with the huge tonnages and value of exports from the Pilbara region in Western Australia. 
The recent decision to start construction of a naval facility at Cockburn Sound and to upgrade Learmonth Royal Australian Air Force base is proof that this Government recognises the facts of life in the Indian Ocean area and is prepared to start to meet our needs and responsibilities. I note in the recent Defence report that the establishment of an Army facility in Western Australia is under consideration. This seems completely logical to me since both the other Services will be catered for under existing announced commitments. At this stage I would like to suggest that consideration be given either to establishing a base for a task force or at least reserving a training area in the north-west of Western Australia. I am fully aware of the problems of transport, amenities - particularly education - involved in establishing a major base a long way from a large centre of population. Nevertheless, I believe that the Army could take a lead here in encouraging decentralisation and development in the area. The establishment of an Army facility in the Exmouth area, for example, would certainly accelerate the establishment of a much needed secondary school in the district. In the Exmouth area there is a wide range of public amenities - far greater than most people realise. The amenities at Exmouth are a wonderful tribute to the personal drive and dedication of the Civil Commissioner,  Colonel Murdoch,  lt might surprise some honourable members to know that this area has sports fields, including, 1 am delighted to be able to say, a turf wicket. Other amenities include tennis courts, a golf course, a public library, a kindergarten and a first class hospital - in fact practically everything one would expect to find in a town of fair size. 
Lastly, and in this context the most important of ail, there is a magnificient training area immediately adjacent to the town in the Cape Range. It would be difficult to find more suitable terrain for military training and this area has the additional advantage of being virtually alongside the Learmonth RAAF base. If it is decided, despite all the advantages that 1 have mentioned, that it is not feasible to establish a permanet task force base at Exmouth, I hope that an adequate area of land will be reserved for military training exercises which, because of the proximity of Learmonth, would be ideal for combined Army-RAAF operations. I commend this suggestion to the Government. 
The Australian Government's decision to enter the international shipping field had two main objectives. The first was to carry some at least of Australia's exports in Australian ships and the second was to gain access to details of the financial arrangements and costs of the shipping conferences. I am sure the great majority of Australians applauds the objectives and motives of the Government but I feel it is fair to ask, following the publication of the annual report of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, whether the Australian vessels are returning the maximum benefit to Australian exporters. It is clear from the report that the Australian National Line vessel on the Australia-Japan run is operating extremely well and efficiently. It is very important to remember that this is a multi-purpose ship of the vehicle deck type, and I shall return to this subject later. This ship is operating so profitably in fact that it has gained a greater share than its agreed share of the traffic. However, it is the Australia-United Kingdom-Europe trade to which I intend specifically to refer. There are several points which have to be kept in mind. The first is that according to the Commonwealth Statistician's publication entitled 'Overseas Shipping Cargo, June 1969' the total cargo discharged in Australia from Europe by liner service was 2,297,426 tons manifest. The total cargo loaded in Australia for discharge in Europe by liner service was 1,663,713 tons manifest. The unused freight capacity by liner service out of Australia to Europe was about 634,000 tons manifest or 27.6 per cent. Naturally, if ships arrive in Australia not fully loaded the unused capacity out of Australia will be greater still. 
We come now to the most important statistic. If wool were carried by other than liner service to Europe the surplus capacity on the nin would rise to about 1 million tons manifest or approximately 43.5 per cent of the apparent total available cargo capacity out of Austrlia. This brings me to my second main point which is directly related to the Australian investment in pure container ships on the UKEurope run. We have to consider the nature of Australian exports to Europe. First, we have the bulk cargoes such as wheat and mineral ores which are not suitable to container shipping. Secondly, we have general cargo, much of which is highly suited to container shipping but is quite insufficient to fill the available container capacity. Thirdly, we have wool which is by far the largest single export cargo from Australia. An inescapable fact is that unless wool is put into containers many containers will go to Europe empty because there is not sufficient general cargo to fill them. While there is no doubt that containers are a highly efficient method of shipping many types of cargo this does not automatically make them the most efficient method of shipping all types of cargo, and in particular there is considerable doubt that containers are the best way of shipping wool. After all, wool is already in a serviceable container and the unit load or multipurpose type of ship such as the Australian Enterprise' on the Australia-Japan run, to which I referred earlier, seems to be a  more flexible and suitable way of shipping wool. I refer to the report of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. In paragraph 83 it states: 
The clear conclusion in any consideration of this element of Australia's export trade is that the container operations will have to carry wool to keep their operations economically viable. The absence of wool for the northbound voyages would lead to a great over-tonnage on that section of the UK-Australia-UK round voyage with large numbers of empty containers. 
I come now to paragraph 84 which states: 
The possible effects of such a situation on the tariff rates as between southbound and northbound freights are obvious, and some close supervision of this aspect of Australia's export trade will have to be enforced. Any tendency to subsidise UK exports, at the expense of those from Australia, will require immediate remedial activity by both shippers and (where practicable) Government authorities. 
These comments lead on to Conclusion No. 13 of the report which states: 
There has been an element of haste in introducing the container system to Australia without sufficient time for adequate consultation between the many interests involved. 
This in turn leads to Recommendation No. 4 which reads: 
Governments should take  do  action which would result in a situation of preference to any one type of shipping operation which might be used to protect the operators from a wrong investment decision. 
Do these words apply to our investment in the United Kingdom-Europe conference? If they do, is the wool industry being asked to foot the bill? With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table prepared by the library research service showing the respective freight rates for various cargoes from Australia to Europe. 

<graphic href="070131197010221_34_4.jpg"></graphic>

A study of this table reveals some quite extraordinary facts. For example, the freight rate for carcass mutton is 25 per cent cheaper than the freight rate for carcass lamb, lt is considerably cheaper to ship cartons of refrigerated meat at 3.81c a lb, butter at 2.94c a lb or cheese at 2.5c a lb than it is to ship wool at 4.427c a lb. The difference in the specific gravities of the products cannot explain these discrepancies, since some of these rates apply to refrigerated cargo which, of course, is much more expensive to handle than nonrefrigerated cargo such as wool. I ask: How long will it be before we find a resourceful wool grower - perhaps even that well known character. Fred the Farmer - who realises that he could save a great deal of money by disguising his product as meat or butter and sending it to Europe in an immensely expensive refrigerated container? 
Regrettably, it will probably be some time, because, as appears in Hansard at page 1588, on 24th September this year the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  pointed out: 
It is unquestionably the right of the people who own the wool that is being shipped to make  a  decision on what freight they are prepared to pay. 
This highlights the essential weakness of the wool grower in negotiating on freight rates. If he sells his wool at auction in Australia, f.o.b.. the ownership of the wool passes to the buyer on the fall of the hammer. The grower loses control of his own product and, as the Minister has pointed out. cannot negotiate directly on his own behalf. Later on at page 1588 of Hansard the Minister for Trade and Industry pointed out that the Government could not refer the matter of freight rates to the Restrictive Trade Practices Tribunal if the ship owner authorities were providing 'an adequate, efficient and economic service'. While the ship owners may well be providing an adequate, efficient and economic service for United Kingdom and European exporters and for some Australian exporters, I suggest that the figures I have quoted above cast some doubt on whether the same can be said for wool. 
Therefore, I conclude by making 2 suggestions: The first is that, in my opinion, it is very important that the proposed Australian Wool Commission should, in its own right, have power to negotiate on freight rates, not merely when requested to do so by the Minister. We should move towards c.i.f. shipping of wool, because in the words of the Minister, 'it is unquestionably the right of the people who own the wool that is being shipped to make a decision on what freight they are prepared to pay*. Under the present f.o.b. system the grower is no longer the "owner of his product at the time of shipping. Under a c.i.f. system the grower would still retain control of his product at this vital stage of the marketing process. My final suggestion - or plea - is that the Government keep under close and constant review the whole question of its shipping operations, including the costs, returns and suitability of the different types of shipping it operates. 
If it becomes clear that we are not getting the best possible return from our investment because some of the ships are not ideally suited to the trade in which they are engaged or because the terms on which we entered the various shipping conference are not resulting in the benefits to which Australia is justly entitled, then for goodness sake do not let us just be satisfied to perpetuate an existing situation merely because certain investment decisions have been taken. 
In the words of  Sir John  Williams in the annual report of the Commission, the shipping industry is going through 'a time of vast technological change'. It is normal, sound business practice to revise the various forms, terms and level of investment in any enterprise. In the interests of the Australian economy, our taxpayers, and particularly our exporters, let us do everything possible to ensure that we achieve the very laudable objectives which lead us to enter the field of international shipping. 
Before I deal with some of the points raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and make my own comments on the legislation I would like to pay a tribute to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I congratulate the Minister for his tolerance, patience and skill in getting this piece of legislation before the Parliament. This has been a remarkable achievement. T cannot reply to ali of the points raised by the honourable member for Dawson. However, one thing which struck me was that his speech was wholly destructive; it was without one indication of what is the policy of the Australian Labor Party on wool. I do not suppose that is very surprising because if we had not known before we certainly know now that the Labor Party does not have one. 
I was absolutely amazed to hear the honourable member for Dawson say that he deplored the Government rushing the legislation through this House. I have never known a more extraordinary attitude. What the honourable member said must introduce a considerable doubt about the sincerity of the Opposition's oft quoted concern about the state of the industry. What if this legislation was held up. Do not let us forget that in the time remaining in this session the legislation has to be passed by both Houses of Parliament. If this legislation is not passed by the Parliament there will inevitably be a delay in establishing the Commission at a time when it is absolutely vital to restore some degree of confidence in the industry- not only to the growers themselves but to all sections of the trade. I make absolutely no apology whatsoever for treating this legislation as of the utmost urgency and I fully support the Government's action in bringing it before the House at this stage. The honourable member for Dawson said that the Government had done nothing in the last 12 months except talk about wool. I would remind him that the Government has doubled its contribution to wool research and promotion to a total of about $29m. Also, the Government has established a price averaging plan which is administered by the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation at a cost - I would not care to be held to this - of about $12tn. These are just 2 of the things the Government has done. 
The next matter that the honourable member brought up was the idea of a single authority. Of course, in this respect we come to a basic difference of philosophy between those on the other side of the House and honourable members on this side of the House. The Labor Party has made no secret of the fact that the one thing it has proposed for the wool industry is total acquisition of the wool clip. That is Labor's officially stated objective. For my part I congratulate the Government on preserving the right of the grower to choose how he sells his wool. This illustrates the fundamental difference in approach between the Australian Labor Party and the Government. The Australian Labor Party says to the grower: 'Whether you like it or not every pound of wool you produce will be acquired by a statutory authority'. On the other hand, the Government says: *We have provided a commission with statutory powers to oversee the selling of the entire Australian wool clip'. However, the Government goes on to say: 'But' - and this is a big 'but' - Ve concede that you the grower should be able to decide for yourself how you dispose of your wool'. Again, I make no apology for that policy. 
The honourable member for Dawson, in referring to the day to day flexible reserve price of wool, said: 'No-one knows how it will work*. I suggest to the honourable member that . he talk about this matter to people in the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation who have been operating the price averaging plan. Work on this scheme has been going on for some months. Not only has the scheme been in operation but I understand that it is operating at a profit. 1 agree with the honourable member for Dawson on one point: This is a momentous piece of legislation, lt concerns Australia's largest industry. I have heard the total investment in the industry variously estimated at between $8,000m and $ 1 0,000m, but whatever the actual figure is the state of the industry has a widespread effect on the Australian economy and of course a substantial effect on the export earnings of this country. The fall in wool prices has been variously described as drastic and disastrous. However, one thing is rapidly emerging - the problem that the fall in wool prices poses for the countryside itself. If there is a lack of confidence in the industry and if growers leave the industry, this will lead inevitably to increased pressures on providing services in the main cities of Australia. Australia now will really have to come face to face with the realities and the problems of decentralisation. But this is more properly the subject for another debate. 
It is extremely important to determine the reasons for the fall in wool prices. Is it high interest rates? We know that buyers of synthetic fibres get credit whereas the buyer of wool has to pay interest at perhaps 9 per cent or 10 per cent on the fall of the hammer. Is it being an unprotected seller? The Minister referred to this by illustrating the fall in the numbers of buyers operating at wool auctions. Is it because of economic conditions in consumer countries with a tight monetary situation? Is it the uncertainty in today's fashion world? I do not think that we should underestimate the unsettling effect on the wool industry that the inability of women at the moment to decide how long their skirts should be has had. Garment manufacturers are not ordering large forward numbers of garments. They are just getting small runs until they find out what will be the eventual decision of the fashion world. 
Is it the price of synthetics? I think undoubtedly we must agree that the price of synthetics is having a substantial effect on wool prices. Until recent months, even with the low prices prevailing, wool had enjoyed a 50 per cent premium in some grades over comparable synthetic products. Possibly even now it may be operating in certain grades at a premium over comparable synthetic products. Therefore, a great danger of arbitrarily lifting the price of wool too far does exist. I do not say that we cannot lift it, but if we lift it too far we must acknowledge that the plain fact is that, with wool only occupying about 7.5 per cent of the apparel market of the world, there would be a very great danger that the users of wool could and would turn to synthetics to keep their mills running. On the other hand, there is considerable evidence that quantities of wool are being bought at prices below what buyers are in fact prepared to pay. The flexible price scheme is designed to rectify that situation. I emphasise once again that this is not a fixed reserve price such as led New Zealand into such trouble a few years ago. 
Resolving these conflicting elements and obtaining maximum return for the Australian grower will require the highest standard of commercial judgment and management. The members of the Australian Wool Commission will carry a tremendous responsibility. This applies especially to the  Chairman.  Here I would like to make the suggestion that the Minister and perhaps the Government at least consider the possible advantages of having a part time  chairman  and a full time chief executive officer. If this were done, I can see that it may be possible - I do not know - to get someone of the very highest standing in the Australian business world to undertake the chairmanship of this Commission more on the basis of a national duty than any other consideration. If this were done, we would get the best, with the day to day decisions being the job of the full time chief executive officer. 
No matter how competent the  Chairman  and the Commission may be, I think that it would be unwise and unrealistic to believe that the AWC is able to solve all the problems of the wool industry or automatically guarantee a payable price for the grower. The cold hard fact is that, as 1 explained a moment ago, alternative cheaper products are now available and manufacturers, however unwillingly, will turn their attention to these alternatives if wool cannot compete on its own merits. Therefore, I see the greatest role of the AWC is to cut costs and to introduce new techniques especially core testing. I do not suppose that it is very often that a member of this Parliament cares to be reminded of what he said in this place some years ago. But I remember very clearly saying in 1967 that I believed that the Government should look a lot closer at the technique of objective measurement for wool and eventual sale by sample and description. I congratulate the Government for making in the recent Budget a greatly increased appropriation for investigation of this new technique. Huge savings are undoubtedly possible. 
I think that I should refer to the important effect that the company known as Economic Wool Producers has had on thinking in the wool industry. It was like a breath of fresh air to me to read the prospectus of this company which it issued a few weeks ago. I would say that it would be fair to state that that company undoubtedly has had considerable influence on the much more progressive attitude shown by the Wool Board in recent months. Provided this organisation can attract sufficient support, I believe that it will continue to ensure that the Government sponsored selling system keeps up with the latest scientific advances and business practices. Competition is always desirable. I am fearful that if Economic Wool Producers or something like it fails to get off the ground there is the danger that the system may lack the stimulus to innovation, so vital to wool's survival. 
I am a bit disappointed that the Australian Wool Commission will have no power to negotiate directly on freight rates on its own account. I am sure that the Minister will request the Commission to undertake this responsibility as is provided for in the Bill. But I would have liked the Commission to have this power in its own right. If we accompany negotiations on freight rates by moving towards sale of wool on a c.i.f. basis, it should strengthen greatly the negotiating position of the Australian grower. There is no doubt that the Australian Wool Commission will be required to face many problems and to make many difficult decisions. The great thing is that the wool industry at last is moving towards a rational selling system and the introduction of modern techniques. However, no matter how successful the Commission, the fundamental problems of reconstruction of the industry will remain. It is essential that the wool industry adjust itself to the changing economic environment at home and to world trading conditions abroad. This brings up the urgent and growing need for long term finance and interest rates which take account of the current situation in trading in primary products. We must make provision for those who wish to stay in the industry to do so with prospects of success. Existing credit arrangements, I suggest, are quite inadequate. Here again, I realise that these subjects should be considered more properly on another occasion which I hope will not be too long delayed. 
This legislation itself has proved that the Government realises the really extreme urgency of the present critical situation facing this huge industry. Just as I paid tribute to the Minister for Primary Industry at the start of my speech, I pay tribute to the departmental officers and the Parliamentary Counsel who have been responsible for enabling this legislation to be introduced before the end of the session. This too has been a remarkable achievement and an achievement made, 1 know, under quite extraordinary pressure of time. 
I trust that the Commission will usher in a new era for the wool industry. I wish the members of it well in the tremendous task which lies ahead of them. Nothing less than the survival of wool growers themselves, the future prosperity of many towns and, indeed, whole districts covering a large part of Australia, and ensuring the continuation of the source of 20 per cent of Australia's export income rests on their shoulders. This is a great challenge, and a challenge worthy of the best men in Australia. Let us make absolutely sure that we get these men and put them to work as soon as humanly possible. I have great pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Grassby)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. No doubt the Prime Minister saw, or has seen reports of the Leader of the Opposition's television interview last night on "This Day Tonight', in which he claimed that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  is  Mr Gorton's  'joss*. Would the Prime Minister inform the House whether this is true? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. In view of the fact that more than 2,900 questions have been placed on the notice paper since the 27th Parliament first met in February 1970 and in view of the fact that many of those questions are very long, very involved and very costly to answer, will the Prime Minister ask  Mr Speaker  to call a meeting of the Standing Orders Committee so that it might consider amendments to the Standing Orders in order to bring them into line with those of the House of Commons, where every question is limited to a certain number of words? Has the right honourable gentleman noted that of the questions on the notice paper more than 500 are in the name of the Leader of the Opposition and more than 200 in the name of the honourable member for Hindmarsh? As large numbers of public servants are obliged to neglect their legitimate duties to prepare, at great expense, answers to many unnecessary questions, will he extend his anti-inflation policy into this field of Commonwealth expenditure? 
Not for the first time I find myself speaking after that poor man's Al Jolson, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Similarly not for the first time I found some difficulty in following his argument. For instance, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said, as I understood him, that the Australian Wool Commission was unsuccessfully trying to force wool prices up and that this could not be done. On the other hand the honourable member for Riverina criticised the Australian Wool Commission for not forcing prices up far enough. I find this yet another fascinating example of the conflicting attitudes of the Opposition shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honour- able member for Dawson, and his ever present, and one cannot help but suspect, rather unwelcome shadower. 1 find it extraordinary that this motion should have been moved by the Opposition. The inevitable inference is that the Opposition lacks confidence in the Australian WOOl Commission and wishes to spread this lack of confidence to the wool growers, to the wool trade  and  to the rest of Australia. Why on earth should the Opposition want to do this? Quite frankly I find it difficult to understand why. The only reason 1 can think of is that it is just one further example of the Labor Party's attitude to the Australian economy as a whole. The Opposition is always looking round for another peg on which to hang its doom and gloom policies. It is almost as if the Labor Party had a vested interest in prophesying recession or depression in Australia. When it cannot find any other industry on which to hang it, it turns to the poor old wool industry. This is like kicking a man when he is down. 
Let us consider the terms of the motion moved today. Firstly, the Opposition is critical of the Government for its 'failure to report to Parliament on the operations of the Australian Wool Commission'. [ would like to ask the Opposition a question,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Does the Australian Labor Party want the Australian Wool Commission to publish all its confidential intelligence information? This information is confidential because publication of it would harm the competitive position of wool. Is that what the Opposition wants? Does it want to splash across the front pages of the world's Press details of confidential information which wool competitors would give anything to get hold of? If that is nol what the Opposition wants then it has given very little thought to the wording of this motion because that would be the inevitable result. 
The second point about which the Opposition is critical of the Government is its 'failure' to report to Parliament 'on the critical economic condition of the Australian wool industry'. Anybody who knows anything at all about wool does not need a report to Parliament to be informed of the economic conditions of the wool industry. It is no coincidence that this request has been made by honourable members opposite, lt is for the very good  reason that they do not know anything about the industry. How many wool growers are there on the Opposition side of the House? There is none. Therefore it is not surprising that they want something which would tell them about the plight of the industry. It is a sad reflection on the supposed alternative Australian Government to have to admit that it does not know anything about the country's greatest single industry, ft is even more unfortunate that its shortcomings in this regard are not limited to the wool industry. 
Let us examine the consequences of acceding to the request of the Opposition. It is obvious that the Opposition is trying to throw doubt on the activities and competence of the Australian Wool Commission at the very time when confidence in the Commission has never been more vital to the industry's survival. The Opposition's alleged concern for the industry is nothing but a shallow mockery, a particularly unpleasant example of political expediency which will be recognised as such without any difficulty at all by the wool growers of Australia. If there is one thing which has to be stressed at the present time it is confidence in the Commission. What would happen if this confidence were undermined as the Australian Labor Party apparently is trying to do? The already depressed world textile market would have yet another element of uncertainty introduced into its calculations. Obviously if those in that industry thought that their competitors might get wool more cheaply than they, they would stay out of the market and perhaps turn to synthetics. This point was made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair). 
The Opposition apparently believes that the stocks held by the Commission are a matter for concern but what does it think should be done? If it considers the stocks are too high, presumably it would like to see them unloaded at prices even lower than they are now. Such action would further depress the market and certainly would be a body blow to the wool growers. 
Expert opinion is that the activities of the Commission have resulted in present prices being about 4c or 5c per lb more than they otherwise would be. Over the Australian wool clip this would amount to approximately $80m. Yet the Opposition is questioning the operations of the Commission. 
That was the impression I got. 
That is the opinion I saw. 
No, not only of  Mr Vines  but of many other experts as well. What is the alternative of the Opposition? I gather its alternative is that it would advocate complete acquisition of the wool clip. However we have to consider the price at which the clip would be acquired. If it is acquired at the present price of about 30c per lb this would confer no benefit to the grower at all. If it was acquired at, say, 40c per lb this almost inevitably would result in an enormous stockpile and could involve the Australian taxpayers in a bill of, perhaps, $200m. The Australian Government has a responsibility to all sections of the community and to act in such a fashion would be a denial of responsibility. 
The wool industry at the moment is living in hope - hope for an improved trading position in textiles throughout the world and therefore for better prices; hope for reductions in costs as a result of the quickest possible introduction of new handling and selling techniques through objective measurement. We heard the honourable member for Dawson speak glowingly of the marketing expertise of the synthetic fibre producers. He said not a word about the tremendous effort made by all sections of the wool trade to modernise the wool selling system by objective measurement. Many dedicated and very experienced men are giving generously of their time and talents to help to solve these tremendous problems. The Government has seen to it that adequate finance is available for their work and in my opinion their efforts provide the most promising line of investigation for the future of the industry. Perhaps there are some commercial risks involved in the operations of the Commission. All I can say is that the wool growers of Australia have every reason to be grateful ?fiat at this very difficult time we have such a Commission. From personal experience, something with which honourable members opposite would not be familiar, I know that woo! growers appreciate the actions of the Commission and the Government on their behalf. If we destroy faith in the Commission at the. present lime we run the risk of destroying faith in the industry itself. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Have personnel from Papua and New Guinea serving with the Royal Australian Navy seen service in Vietnam? If this is true would it be a contravention of our obligations to the United Nations as trustees for New Guinea? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the Minister noted reports from the British Aircraft Corporation that 16 airlines have taken up options on a total of 74 Concorde supersonic passenger aircraft? Has Qantas taken up options on this aircraft? 
The honourable member for Fremantle concentrated to a large extent on the issues involved in recognising continental China and on the current very unfortunate situation in East Pakistan. I regret that time will not allow me to reply in detail to the points he has raised but I intend to use the time available to me to make my own constructive contribution to this debate. A statement on foreign affairs is an event of major importance in this Parliament, dealing as it does with one of the principal responsibilities of the Federal Government. Of course it cannot be dissociated from our defence policy because without a defence policy to back it a foreign policy cannot be pursued with any confidence, credibility or sense of purpose. This is one of the issues which distinguishes those on this side of the House from those on the ^Opposition benches. Honourable members opposite put forward many highly, desirable idealistic concepts but they refuse to acknowledge that in the real world in which we live idealism will not of itself achieve desirable results. A government has a responsibility to ensure that its country not only makes its voice heard but also that its views are backed by the capacity to uphold them. This is surely the supreme objective of our foreign policy as defined by the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs, as reported in Hansard of 19th March 1 970. He said: 
To protect .and enhance our security and other vital interests - political, economic and social. 
Over the last year or so statements or. foreign affairs and defence by the responsible Minister have set the future course of this Government. We accept that Australia's place in South East Asia, geographically and economically, carries corresponding responsibilities. Any Australian who has travelled in South East Asia must have been aware of the remarkable degree of goodwill shown towards Australia by the countries of this region and this is in a large measure attributable to the skill of our Foreign Affairs officers. Australia is held in respect but not in fear, respect because of our considerable economic significance and the fact that we are  a  good example of what can be achieved by a relatively small population; respect because of our considerable defence capacity but not in fear because it is universally recognised that we have no expansionist ambitions. 
Unfortunately this is not true of all other countries in the region. Clearly Russia is now attempting to increase her influence, probably for a mixture of motives, perhaps to check Chinese infiltration or open up trade opportunities. But, first and foremost, we delude ourselves if we believe that Russia's intentions have is their main aim anything except Russia's own self-interest. However, Australia will have to live with this situation whilst  at the  same time being acutely aware of its implications. In more recent times continental China, to use the title in- vogue ai the moment, has earned a reputation for encouraging instability and subversion in the region and, in the case of Tibet and India, committing actual aggression. II appears that the technique of 'the so-called wars of national liberation, -the technique of war of proxy, has ushered in a whole new concept of what is war. Apart from the catastrophe of possible world suicide by an all-out nuclear war, it seems that future conflicts are likely to be on the pattern of the Malayan emergency and the attack by North Vietnam against South Vietnam; that is, there is unlikely to be war in the traditional sense of one country attacking another by means of mass troop or aircraft movements across a national border. However, the possibility of direct attack cannot be discounted altogether. Therefore, we have to be prepared for a wide range of possible situations 
I return now to the subject of continental China. A quite remarkable change in her attitude is revealed by- such recent events as the invitation to the American table tennis team to visit China. Such an invitation would have been almost unthinkable until quite recently. However, ii is interesting to note that it is by no meant, a new experience for Australia. We had a table tennis team visit. China in, I think, 1961. But during the cultural revolution and for some time afterwards it is well known that continental China virtually cut herself off from the rest of the world. Her diplomatic missions were recalled and if became very difficult to get reliable information or assessments of what was happening in that country. During this period continental China suffered severe setbacks in her efforts to influence countries in Africa. It is extremely interesting and important to note that in most, if not all, cases the rejection or deterioration of the Chinese position was attributed to undue interference in domestic political affairs. For example, China often had to choose between supporting the existing government of a country or revolutionary forces within the same country. At the same time as all this was going on, continental China was of course also supporting the North Vietnamese in the Indo-China conflict. 
In about 1968 there were discernible signs that China wanted to regain her rapidly declining influence, but to do this her foreign policy tactic had to change. This in turn brought about some indication that she might be prepared to make some compromise on the pure Maoist revolutionary theories. If this is so, it brings up a question and answer which together are of absolutely critical importance not only for Australia but for all countries. The question is: If - and I stress the word 'if - the assessment that China has changed her attitude is correct, what has brought it about? In trying to find the correct answer, let us assume that certain things which we have done had not been done. Let us suppose that we had not resisted the attack by North Korea on South Korea. Let us suppose that we had not been successful in overcoming the Communist emergency in Malaya. Finally, let us suppose that we had not opposed the aggression in Vietnam. If we had not done these things, surely no-one can seriously doubt that Korea, Malaya and Vietnam would have been overrun by Communist forces. If that had been, would continental China have had any reason to re-assess her aggressive, subversive and disruptive policies? In my opinion, the answer to this question in these circumstances would have to be no. If she had evidence that her technique of revolutionary guerilla warfare, the technique of war by proxy of which I spoke earlier, was successful, what reason would she have for giving it up? One of the clearest lessons of history is that unopposed aggression, of whatever kind, never halts of its own accord. 
I admit that what I am going to say now is getting somewhat into the realm of speculation, but I believe that speculation may be useful in this case. If it is true that continental China is moving towards a desire to become a part of the community of nations, and if she has finally realised that the policies which she has been following are preventing this because they are not acceptable to the great majority of countries, the implications are tremendous. Above everything else, the policy of this Government in opposing aggression against small countries would be proved right. I quite agree that it is far too early yet to assume with any degree of confidence that continental China has abandoned or even modified her previous policies. Certainly it would take some time for a clearer picture to emerge on which sound assumptions can be based. But if the circumstances and events of which I have spoken have been related to our actions and policies in the way I have described, it would be a triumph for this Government's resolution in the face of great pressures and difficulties. 
There are many other questions of great importance, the answers to which will be of vital interest to this country. For example, how will continental China exploit her growing nuclear power? What will be the final outcome of the increased Russian interest in the Indian Ocean? On the other side of the world but nonetheless of urgent relevance for us is the question of British entry into the European Economic Com;munity and, if so, on what terms. Unfortunately, we are not in the comfortable, detached position of being able to read or watch an exciting world wide serial. We cannot just sit back in the pleasurable anticipation of finding these questions answered in the next thrilling instalment. Even though our capacities to take the initiative in the field of foreign policy are necessarily limited, this must not inhibit or prevent us from taking every available opportunity to influence events to our advantage. We have a highly respected and professional Department of Foreign Affairs representing this country throughout the world, and the Minister's comprehensive review of the global situation and how it affects Australia provided clear evidence of the valuable contribution which the Department is making in its own field. Under this Government we can look forward to Australia continuing to take an active and progressive role as a partner in maintaining security and improved economic conditions in our geographical region. 

 Mr Holten - I thank the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  very much. I suppose that I ought not to apologise for interjecting in this place because it has become a fairly common practice. But I admit that I became rather emotional during the honourable member's speech. I thank him very much for his apology. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has challenged anybody on this side of the House to make known their policy on tariffs. I have the greatest possible pleasure in putting forward tonight my' policy on tariffs. The honourable member has ascribed to me and to other honourable members on this side policies which I have never espoused and which, as far as I know, have not been espoused by other honourable members, and this should become apparent during the course of my speech tonight. The honourable member for Lalor also referred to the necessity for retraining those people who may be displaced by a reduction of tariff or those people who may be eliminated from an industry which is no longer judged to be economic and efficient, if I understood him correctly. All I can say to that is that the Australian Labor Party has shown that it is lamentably ignorant of the recent legislation introduced into this House which relates to a scheme for job retraining for those displaced by technical change and which incorporates realistic measures precisely on the lines advocated by the honourable member for Lalor. The interesting part of the honourable member's speech was that he seemed to assume, for unspecified reasons, that planning everything would solve all of our problems. What he has forgotten is that any plan will be wrong. No forward plan will bc exactly right. All planning will be wrong in some degree. The degree of consequent disaster will be directly related to how wrong a plan is. But it must be remembered that it will be wrong. 
Today has been an historic day in an Australian tariff debate because the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made his long awaited statement on tariff policy. It may be argued whether a major statement was necessary. I think that the answer to that is yes, because all forms of production in the world today are subject to a rate of technical change which has never before been experienced. Australia is one of the main trading nations of the world. If our place is to be retained we cannot remain aloof from these changing circumstances. Australia must keep up with the world because if there is one thing which is certain in this uncertain world it is that the world will not slaw down for us. How successful have we been in the past? We hear a great deal said about the much vaunted rate of increase in our gross national product. I would like to refer to the fifth edition of the World Bank Atlas which indicates that Australia's growth rate over the period from 1961 to 1968 was 2.4 per cent. In that period there were 23 countries with a per capita gross national product of over $1,000 a head. Of those 23 countries Australia ranked twenty-first in rate of growth. We were above only New Zealand and the United Kingdom. I would not pretend that this performance is due solely to our tariff policy, but certainly it will be very difficult to improve our relative position on this table if resources continue to be diverted to the high cost areas of production. 
In the present very difficult inflationary situation Australian consumers would benefit greatly from the stimulus provided by some outside competition, and certainly sections of our own industry probably need the same stimulus. The statement made by the Minister is relevant npt only to the reports we have before us today but is even more important to the future tariff policy of Australia which, in turn, will exert a very strong influence on the form and direction of the Australian economy. I congratulate the Minister and the Government on the statement, and in particular on the emphasis given to maintaining the complete independence of the Tariff Board. This was essential for the Board's proposed review of tariff protected, industries. We can now be reassured that this review will take place with the freedom of the Board unimpaired by any restrictions placed upon it by the Government. 
In recent years there has been a great deal more informed discussion on the tariff and a greatly increased awareness of the effects of tariff, not only the direct effects of the cost involved in the higher prices which have to be paid for tariff protected goods compared with those imported duty free, but far more importantly the indirect effect, that is, the effect on the arbitration system and of the pervasive influence of tariff protection extending from the higher cost of the tariff protected product itself to the users of the products, who in turn pass on their costs to the consumers. A matter of particular concern to those who have to operate without protection is the distribution effect of tariff protection because income is distributed away from those without protection to those benefiting from protection. The hardest hit in this first group are the primary producers, many of whom have no protection and face declining prices for their products. 
A further and more recent stimulus to interest is the present inflationary situation, to which I referred a moment ago, because tariffs impose a cost penalty on the economy and the higher the protection the higher the penalty. This very important factor was specifically referred to by the Minister and was taken into account by the Government in agreeing with the Tariff Board's proposal that the tariff review should begin with those industries in the high cost category which have not been reviewed before or in recent years. The Minister, quite rightly, referred to the fact that while the Tariff Board should be called upon to report only on the economic and efficiency aspects of an industry, the Government retained the right to take into account other criteria, such as the employment of specialised classes of labour, the development of special skills or technical development, export earnings and domestic competition for imports. 
 However, there are 3 particular argu ments which are sometimes used in support of tariffs to which I should like to refer. The first is that tariffs are needed for employment. In commenting on this argumentI again emphasise that it is not tariffs as such that I am criticising;I am criticising unwise or unduly high protection. In the present Australian situation of full employment and shortage of capital, it is demonstrably ridiculous to claim that high tariffs are required to provide employment. When there are more investment opportunities than capital can fulfil, the only result of excessively high protection will be to divert scarce resources of capital and labour into high cost industries, when the same resources would show the nation a better return in low cost industries. 
The second argument is: 'But where are the low cost industries?' The honourable member for Lalor will not agree with this but honourable members on this side of the House sincerely hope that this Government never reaches the stage where it directs firms or industries where to invest their money. But again I come back to the point that everyone agrees that Australia is short of capital. In fact, we rely heavily on overseas capital to maintain our growth rate. Because a great deal of local capital is tied up in high cost industries we have had to forgo hundreds of millions of dollars worth of equity in many of this country's largest and potentially most profitable projects, particularly mining. 
The fact that we have got into this position through unwise tariff protection in the past is no argument to continue it in the future. 
A third argument sometimes put forward is that we should take into account the wage level of overseas suppliers. If goods can be sold cheaply in Australia because the wage levels in the countryof origin are lower than ours, then, so the argument goes, our products are entitled to special consideration in order to protect them against this allegedly unfair competition. There are 2 points worth mentioning here. The first is that imports of this kind generally come from the less developed countries, and everyone seems to applaud the principle that it should be a prime object of Australian policy to encourage and assist those countries to raise their living standards. But how can they do this if we refuse to buy goods from them or deny them the opportunity to compete on their merits in fields where they have a comparative advantage? 
It is interesting to note that the same people who advocate protection against low wage sources are very liable to argue that protection is also justified to protect our industries against goods produced by countries who are able to take full advantage of the economies of scale in their production. Very often these goods come from the largest and most technically advanced countries, with wage rates higher than ours. So if we are going to protect all our industries against low cost suppliers on the ground that their wage rates give them an unfair advantage, and against high cost suppliers, on the ground that their scale of production gives them an unfair advantage, who is left to provide fair competition for our industries? It appears that the only production left to use as a yardstick by which to measure our performance will be that of countries with relatively high wage rates but who are unable to achieve economies of scale in their operations. If we base our tariff policy on these foundations, it does not seem likely that we will enhance our ability to compete on world markets abroad or to contain costs to the consumers at home. 
A recent Tariff Board report has disclosed that the average effective rate of protection in Australia is no less than 46 per cent and that the total protection available to manufacturing industry - not necessarily used, although we hope that the Tariff Board will be able to tell us how much of the amount is actually used - is $2,700m. I should like to interpolate here and say that the widely criticised $200m assistance to primary industry seems pretty small to me in comparison with that figure. Primary producers are constantly being exhorted to produce at  a  cost that meets the market price, and I have no doubt that this is the correct policy from the national point of view and, in the long term, for primary industries themselves. But what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander, and it would be un thinkable to apply standards to the generally profitable and indeed, in some cases, relatively affluent manufacturing industries less severe than those that are applied to the struggling, embattled primary industries. 
It is clear that in the past our tariff policies have resulted in a degree of misallocation of resources which we can ill afford, and it is to be hoped that the Minister's statement will prevent such misallocation in the future. I should like to give a few examples of this. I think that it was my friend the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who first pointed out that in Australia we have 4 motor car manufacturers and several assemblers, for a population of between 12 million and 13 million, receiving protection at an effective rate of 67 per cent. In the United States there are also 4 motor car manufacturers but there are no assemblers for a population of more than 200 million. Their tariff protection is at the rate of 3 per cent or 4 per cent. 
If we look at the small air-cooled engine industry we find that successive increases in tariff protection, now standing at 65 per cent have resulted in gross overcapacity. I hasten to reassure my colleague the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  who naturally takes a keen, proprietary interest in this industry, that it is not the industry itself that I am criticising; it is the result of unwise tariff protection. But the piece de resistance must be the example quoted by the honourable member for Wakefield recently concerning the humble household plastic bucket. I could not believe this story when I first heard it, but subsequent investigation has shown it to be substantially true; it has been confirmed. Imagine yourself a manufacturer of plastic buckets in Australia. You have the choice of buying your raw materials from the local chemical industry, operating under a degree of tariff protection, or getting them from overseas and paying the import duty. In most cases I think it is true to say that you would buy the materials locally because it is easier, and you would pass on the high cost of your raw materials to the housewives who buy the buckets. 
But there may be another course of action open to you. Suppose you bought a plastic bucket manufactured in Hong Kong from raw materials supplied by the same Australian chemical industry from which you bought your raw materials but supplied under what is euphemistically termed a policy of marginal pricing for export. Having got the plastic bucket back to Australia you could then grind it up and manufacture your plastic bucket from the granules produced. It is technically possible but surely so ridiculously expensive that it would be of only academic interest. But I am assurred that a manufacturer who adopted this practice could make and sell a plastic bucket cheaper than one manufactured from raw materials bought in the normal course of business in Australia. It needs no further elaboration from me to emphasise the ultimate economic absurdity of the situation or the fact that the implications go a lot further than plastic buckets. 
That brings me to my next point, which is the increasing importance of manufacturing industries in earning export income. Primary industries are certainly still the most important single source of export income, but the principal growth in the future will come from the mining and manufacturing sectors. Mining obviously will depend very largely on export markets. This industry has long term contracts and profitability will, to a great extent, be determined by the level of local costs. Many capital items of equipment required by the mining industry come from the metal manufacturing industry which, as the Minister said in his statement today, would be one of the first industries referred to the Tariff Board for review. This industry enjoys protection at an effective rate of 80 per cent. But manufacturing industries themselves will become increasingly interested in keeping tariff protection at reasonable levels. Exports of manufactures have been rising at a tremendous rate in the last few years. The annual rate of increase has been approximately IS per cent. This has not happened just by chance. More and more Australian industries are finding that, to achieve economies of scale in production they must produce in quantities which cannot be absorbed by the domestic market. 
What I have said leads, I think, to one conclusion. It is this: As Australia becomes a great industrial nation, the primary industries, the mining industries and the manufacturing industries will find themselves increasingly not in competition for government aid and assistance but with a great common objective, that is, to remain competitive in world markets. Many manufactured products must pay the costs of high protection on their inputs. This obviously severely affects their ability to remain competitive. If we price ourselves out of world markets, Australia will become a nation whose people are reduced to taking in each other's washing for a living, lt is not merely the role of the Tariff Board which we are talking about, important though that may be. It is nothing less than the future form and direction of the Australian economy. 
This Government is in a position where it will be responsible for making the decisions which will shape the economic future of the nation. If we make the right decisions and assuming there is no world catastrophe the prospects for this country seem almost unlimited. If we make the wrong decisions, we could endanger all that we have and all that Australia could be. These are very great responsibilities, probably second only to the defence and the security of the country. The actions of this Government during the last few months have proved that we on this side of the House are prepared to take a responsible attitude to the problems that Australia is facing. What we need to do now is to continue to prove that we are worthy of this country and of the people who have elected us. One test of our worth will be our tariff policy, (t has taken many years of dedication and hard work, particularly by my colleague the honourable member for 
Wakefield, to get such a statement made in this Parliament. It is my belief that this statement signals the start of a new era in Australian tariff protection. Let us give the Tariff Board the facilities that it requires, and let it get on with the job. 
I would like to refer very briefly to the report of the Special Advisory Authority on artificial Christmas trees, which industry, the report tells us, is of some significance. I point out that an industry of some significance obviously employs some people and obviously has capital invested in it. I think we are entitled to know how many people are employed in the industry and how much capital is invested in it. We are told in the report - one of the few pieces of information that it does contain - that one manufacturer was in business prior to 1960 and one after 1960. The one who came into business after 1960 apparently believed that the product he was making was entitled to protection. Much to his surprise he subsequently learned that it was not entitled to protection. So we have the almost incredible situation of a report being presented to this Parliament which does not state how many people are employed, or how much money is invested, in an industry which did not go to the trouble of ascertain- ing whether it was entitled to protection. I think this Parliament is entitled to receive reports of a much higher standard. 
Before I make my own contribution to this debate, I should say that it has been drawn to my attention that a very well known Canberra political commentator, whose broadcasts are transmitted to other States, tonight said, and I am informed repeated it 3 times, that the Government would allow 5 minutes only for the passage of this Bill. I make it quite clear that the time allowed for the second reading debate on this Bill is not 5 minutes but 4 hours. 
I refer now to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  It is worth noting that the first third of the amendment, section (a) deals with a means test which, I have always understood, was anathema to members of the Opposition. The second and third portions of the amendment, sections (b) and (c), relate to -people moving out of the industry and rehabilitation for them. I think that it should be noted by this House that the entire content of the amendment moved by the honourable member on behalf of the Opposition is concerned with means tests and people moving out of the industry. 
I .wish to comment on a few other points mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson. He said that it was the intention of the Government ruthlessly to phase out some producers. I think that the honourable member must have forgotten that consultations even now are going on to introduce a retraining scheme for farmers along the same lines as the recently announced retraining scheme for those displaced from their jobs by technical change. The honourable member also alleged that the Government was following the policy of get big or get out. Of course, this is quite untrue. I would like to remind the honourable member that this Government recognises that size of itself is not and has never been a guarantee of the efficient use of resources. This Bill is an extremely important one not only because it refers to such a large section of the Australian community but also because it announces a new approach to the problems of primary industry. For the first time that I can remember this measure is designed to attack the causes of the problem with which we find ourselves rather than the effects of it. 
I think it should be pointed out exactly why such a proposal to attack the causes of the ills facing primary industries is necessary. The answer is to be found in a fairly simple set of figures which carry a devastating message for many people. Those figures represent the Net Farm Income of Australia. Net farm income declined from a peak of over $ 1,400m in 1964, to $l,000m last year and to an estimated $900m this year. Of course, $900m today does not buy as much as $900m did 7 years ago. So, not only has a drop occurred in actual money terms but also tremendous erosion has taken place in the purchasing power of primary producers in this country. It is an erosion which to my knowledge has not been suffered to anything like a similar degree by any other section of the community. 
What are the implications of this decline in net farm income? I think that the implications are because this has happened so rapidly that whereas in the past the rural community was able to adjust to a fairly gradual rate of change and was able to cope with it, this rate of change is galloping at such a rate now that without special assistance the industry will be unable to cope with it. In Australia, as in other advanced countries, the number of people engaged in farming has been declining over the years. This is inevitable as capital replaces labour in the farm enterprises. As I say, this situation is not unique to Australia. It is happening in all advanced countries. Although the figures that I am about to cite are probably out of date even now, we have reached a stage where 30 per cent of all farmers in Australia are earning below $2,000 a year. Certainly, over 40 per cent of all wool growers are earning under $2,000. So obviously in this situation something must be done. 
The alternative courses of action which may be open to us had to be considered. The first course, and perhaps the easiest one, would be an improvement in the prices of primary products. As many speakers have said recently, I think that we would be unwise to rely on this to a major extent. One fact highlights why we would be unwise to rely on this. To my knowledge, it has not been mentioned. It is that the rate of growth of the world population at present is about 2 per cent. But world agricultural production is increasing at 2.8 per cent, which is 40 per cent faster. In many countries, this is highly desirable. It is wonderful to see those countries getting to the stage where they are' more selfsufficient and more able to feed themselves. But the fact is that in this situation we are unlikely to get an increase across the board in prices for world agricultural products; in fact, we are more likely to get a decline. This single fact is reinforced, of course, by the continual substitution of synthetics for the natural product, and by the many trade barriers that we face to potential profitable markets for our products. Therefore, I cannot imagine that the problem will be solved by increased prices received. 
I suppose that the second way we can tackle the problem is by a system of price support which, unless it was to get out of hand completely, would have to be allied to some sort of system of negotiable quotas. It would pose colossal administrative headaches. While it can certainly be argued on the grounds of equity, quite apart from its being costly, would it solve the problem? Here I think that for a while we have to forget about playing politics. What we are trying to do is to restore the primary industry of Australia to a situation in which it reaches something like parity with the rest of the community. That is what we are trying to do, and I am certain that all honourable members in the House have that common objective. So let us forget about politics for a while and try to find the right solution to this problem. I do not think that the price support solution, allied to some negotiable quota system, would be the right solution. As my example, I take the industry which has been quoted many times in this debate - the wool industry. In that industry, the plain fact is that 15 per cent of wool growers produce 67 per cent of the clip. If that percentage is increased to 25 per cent of growers, we find that they produce 75 per cent of the clip. 
Down at the bottom end of the scale, we have 30 per cent of growers producing 6 per cent of the clip. Certainly these growers are probably not depending solely or even mainly on wool as their source of income. 
However, the fact is that, if we talk about the wool industry as an export earner for Australia, we are probably talking about only something like 20 per cent or 25 per cent of growers. Therefore, I suggest it is vitally necessary to distinguish between the very important social and political measures needed for many growers and the measures needed for the health of the industry itself. 
A very disturbing picture is emerging in Victoria, where the first applications for assistance under this legislation are starting to be analysed and where the results are becoming available. In round terms, about 800 applications have been received, something like 200 have been processed, and the number eligible is about 20. This scheme is a lender of last resort and, as outlined in the Minister's statement, on the debt reconstruction side of it, to obtain debt reconstruction assistance an applicant must be unable to obtain finance to carry on. Regarding farm build-up paragraph (2) (b) of Part III of the Schedule of the Bill states: 
The purchaser is unable to obtain the finance applied for from any other source. 
Because of these and other criteria, it seems that on those Victorian figures only about 10 per cent will be eligible for assistance. Here I think that surely consideration must be given to widening the terms of eligibility to some extent to include those farmers who are excluded because they have access to credit. Why have they access to credit? Presumably it is because they are in a reasonably sound financial position and because the lending authorities regard them as fairly sound financial operators they are able to get the money. These are potentially the best and most valuable farmers Australia can have. In his speech, in referring to the object of the legislation, the Minister said: 
It is a policy of concentrating the assistance that is available on those cases which have the best hope of weathering the present adverse circumstances. 
I quite agree with that but under the terms of the legislation, we are excluding a lot of people who are potentially able to meet the object of the legislation. Yet we are forcing these people, who have access to credit, to pay high rates of interest - perhaps on overdraft or on short term loan - while giving very substantial concessions to those in a worse financial situation. 
Of course, the third solution to the problem is to have fewer farmers amongst whom to divide this declining net farm income. Let us make sure that, if this is to be the solution, these fewer remaining farmers are the best farmers. Whatever policies we hammer out in this Parliament, let us try to get to that result, because surely that is in the best national interest. To achieve that result, there are 2 specific proposals that I would like to mention. The first one is not referred to in this legislation, but I certainly hope more attention will be given to it. It has been mentioned by the Minister and other Government spokesmen on other occasions. I am referring to the formation of a Rural Loans Insurance Corporation - or some title like that - that would operate on much the same lines as the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation operates, whereby the traditional lenders to the farming community - the first mortgage lenders - are encouraged to keep their money in the industry, if they are prepared to lend it on a long term basis, say a 20-year term, which is the same as the term referred to in the Bill. At the moment, because of the uncertain situation in primary industry, this money is tending to leave the industry; this puts even greater pressure on the Government to provide more funds. I sincerely hope that the Minister and the Government will give very close attention to the formation of this corporation, because it would give access to longer term credit to those who are excluded from the scheme itself. 
There is another matter to which I would like to refer, and I am surprised that the honourable member for Dawson did not mention it. If he did mention it. I am sorry if I missed it. I refer to the welcome change that has been announced in the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank. I am quite certain that this is something that all spokesmen for primary industry have been urging for some time. Until now the Development Bank has had to lend for development; it has not been able to lend for amalgamation. We are now to see this charter changed and the sum of SI Om immediately made available through the Development Bank - a sum separate from the $100m to which this Bill refers - for the purpose of farm amalgamation. As 1 understand the change in the charter, it is also welcome that this additional money will be made available to those who are already engaged in making a living from primary production, but it will not be possible for those who are, although perhaps engaged in some form of primary industry, maybe for taxation purposes, not dependent on primary industry for their living, to get this money on preferential terms. I congratulate the Government for making this change in the charter. 

 Sir, the circumstances have changed rapidly since this scheme was first thought of - even since last year - and the bases on which it was calculated have changed greatly because, since the proposal was first hammered out, wool prices have fallen drastically, and I would say that sheep prices have fallen to an even greater extent. While at the time it was envisaged that quite a substantial proportion of those who applied would be eligible under the criteria which the scheme lays down - and I do not disagree with the criteria - people now find themselves excluded from the scheme. I feel that the Government should be giving thought to an interim measure of some kind so that we can have a breathing space until a clearer picture, of wool prices particularly, emerges. We need more information before we start to make specific, irrevocable decisions in this matter because this legislation will have tremendous social as well as economic implications. 
I think that the breathing space, such as that which I have advocated, would give the Government a chance - I am speaking in a non-Party political way now - to get across to the Australian people and to the primary producers themselves the fact that we are living now in a rapidly changing situation; that this scheme is, in effect, what it is said to be - a reconstruction scheme; that we have reached the stage in our development where it is no longer possible to maintain the status quo in rural industry; and that quite substantial structural change is inevitable unless our rural population is to be reduced to a peasant level, and surely no-one in this national Parliament, irrespective of Party affiliations, wants to see that happen. If this is our objective and if we can reach the correct solution rather than one which is merely attractive in political terms, we will be doing Australian primary producers a great service. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is Qantas Airways Ltd considering the introduction of new uniforms for their air hostesses? If so, will the Minister give an undertaking that the uniforms for its air hostesses? If so, will the weight, machine washable, permanent press wool fabrics? 
Like the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  I intend to confine my remarks to the provisions of the Bill. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Sinclair) in his second reading speech said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth Government to guarantee the repayment of loans and the payment of interest on amounts that may be borrowed by the Australian Wool Board for the construction and equipping of integrated wool selling complexes. 
It is worth remembering that at this stage there is still no wholly integrated wool selling complex in Australia, but of course everybody connected with the industry will be watching very closely developments at Yennora where 3 brokers are engaged in building wool selling facilities. The indications are that these facilities may be expanded into true integrated wool complexes. When assessing the success or otherwise of this venture, it is extremely important to remember the special conditions that apply in Sydney. Because existing wool stores in Sydney are so widely scattered and often so difficult to service with adequate transport facilities, there is probably a better case for wool selling complexes in Sydney than in any other centre. Any success in Sydney must not lead us to assume that similar successes will be achieved elsewhere. 
I think the Minister very rightly referred to the tremendous implications of the probable introduction of objective measurement of wool leading to sale by sample and description. Yennora, and presumably any other complex which might be built, would be designed with sale by sample and description in mind. But as more is becoming known about objective measurement and its possibilities for reducing cost and therefore increasing returns to the grower, there are growing doubts that wool complexes will be essential to achieve the most economic and efficient utilisation of this new technique. We have assumed that, as presale core testing of wool becomes universally practised, it will be best to perform the testing on the receipt of a sample at the wool handling and selling complex. But there are now indications that we may be able to use the technique of objective measurement far earlier in the wool pipeline, perhaps even before the sheep has entered the shed. I am referring to the possibility of sampling wool on the sheep itself. 
If this becomes a reality we shall have to reassess completely our previous concep tions of the role of objective measurement. The widespread adoption of the practice of taking a wool sample from the sheep itself would probably make integrated wool selling complexes unnecessary. I suggest that we will have to be extremely careful that we do not commit ourselves to spending huge sums of money which may turn out to be for no purpose. If wool samples can be taken from the sheep or in the shearing shed, there is obviously no advantage in building very costly wool complexes designed to handle the core testing of wool because only some form - of cheap wool storage would then be necessary, perhaps even not at a major port,, and certainly existing storage space would be perfectly adequate. 
I was very pleased to hear in the Minister's speech that before any approval was given to the building of wool complexes there would have to be a clear economic justification for doing so. As long as we stick to this attitude I do. not think we should run into any trouble. But I want to place on record a warning that the wool industry must not be 'talked into a hasty decision to invest huge sums of money in these wool complexes only to find that the reasons for building them no longer apply and that rapid changes in marketing techniques had already made them obsolescent. I agree with the honourable member for Dawson in saying that this is yet another area in which more information should be ascertained so that we can find just exactly where wool is going. The honourable member for Dawson mentioned particular problems of cost and the price for wool. However, I feel that the technique of obtaining a sample on the sheep before it goes to the wool shed probably has greater implications for future cost savings for the wool industry than anything we have yet thought about - certainly far exceeding the original concept of the wool complexes themselves. 
While I agree that provision should be made for the Australian Wool Board to borrow this money if it turns out that wool complexes are economically justified, I would just like to place on record my warning that we should not start spending huge sums of money when present indications are that we may be able to do a better job in a much cheaper way. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the Office of Secondary Industry has made recommendations to the Government that conflict with those of the Tariff Board in respect to certain sections of the textile industry? Is there any substance in these reports? 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  devoted much of his speech to the alleged loss of Australian wheat sales to China, but I remind the honourable member that the Australian Wheat Board recently announced that the current carryover will be the lowest for many years. Sales to other countries, thanks to the outstanding initiative and energy of the Australian Wheat Board, have been extremely successful, including major sales to the 
United Arab Republic and, most recently - this is interesting to note - to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I will have a few more words to say about trade presently. 1 put it to the House that naively is not necessarily something to be condemned, neither is over-eagerness to please. In most people these defects are not likely to be important. In a politician they would merely make him ineffective in his electoral work and in the Parliament, but I suggest that the position changes when a leading politician exhibits these deficiencies. If he exhibits them publicly it may be merely embarrassing, but when he does so before the leader of a country whose recent record gives no reason for believing its policies are sympathetic or favourably disposed to Australia the position becomes just plain dangerous. This is the message which is now getting across to the people of Australia following the visit to China by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Australian Labor Party delegation. It is a long way to China, but the longest ride that the Leader of the Opposition and his Party got was not on the way over - it was right there in Peking, and they did not have to move a foot. The real issue of the performance of the Leader of the Opposition in China is not whether we should or should not trade with China or hold discussions with China, but how his visit there will affect Australia's relations not only or even primarily with China, but with the rest of our trade associates, our friends and our allies. 
In this context 1 come back to the question of trade. It is important to remember the trade figures between Australia and China and the other countries of Asia. Excluding Japan which, of course, is our largest trading partner, the figures make interesting and important reading. Their implications are clear. Since 1966 our exports to China have varied between $l28m and $63m a year, and over the 5 years totalled $5 lim. Our imports from China during the same period totalled $143m. But, on the other hand, I should like the House to take particular note of this: Our exports to Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines totalled $1,1 96m and our imports from those countries totalled $3 16m. 
In his extraordinary anxiety to please China, the Leader of the Opposition completely ignored the fact that our trade with our Asian friends is far more important to us and, incidentally, far more stable. A study of the record will show that once a country has recognised China, her trade with China has generally declined. In other words, as was mentioned by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  once China has achieved her objective, once she has succeeded in getting a country to take the bait of recognition, trade declines. It will be very interesting to see whether the same thing eventually happens with Canada. 
I am not opposing any move towards increased trade with China. I am just pointing out the relative importance of our trade with other countries in Asia. In fact, if honourable members will consult Hansard they will find that back in 1967 I said: 
Trade is one way of preventing China from becoming isolated from the rest of the world. This is one way of retaining an avenue where China may eventually come to realise the folly and danger of her present course. 
I suggest that there are not many honourable members who could look back 4 years and find that they had made a similar comment. I just wanted to make that quite clear in case I am accused of taking a sudden interest in this subject. Let me return to the Leader of the Opposition and his China foray. For a politician of his experience it was an extraordinary performance. Presumably, he wishes to be considered as an alternative leader of this country, yet he has insulted our neighbours, such as Thailand, the Philippines and Taiwan. He directly accused Japan of developing militarism and advised her to abrogate her treaty with Taiwan. The Leader of the Opposition made the interesting comment that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had treated China abominably. That may very well be so, and it would apply not only to China, but I cannot help wondering how the Leader of the Opposition would describe China's treatment of Tibet, and how he would describe China's treatment of India; but we must be left to wonder because there is no indication of how he would describe it. We can only assume that he considered it was something less than abominable. 
What we do know is that in the field of international diplomacy the Leader of the Opposition has been found wanting to such an extent that if he were ever in a position to speak for this country on the question of China, he would find himself and Australia without bargaining power, without any cards left to play. In fact, he is like a bridge player who shows his cards to his opponent before the bidding is even opened. In plain language, he and this country would be left without a feather to fly with. What an incredible thing to do by a man who seriously puts himself forward as an alternative Prime Minister. It is almost as if he believed that China's interests and our own were identical. I put it to the House that China's recent history gives us no confidence for such a view. 
Everyone recognises that China is a great power and that she will exert increasing influence throughout the world, and particularly in Asia. In accepting this fact, by all means let us try to ensure that China becomes one of the community of nations, but do not let us blind ourselves to China's recent history of interference and sometimes active aggression in the affairs of other countries, such as Korea, Tibet, India and Burma. Let us not forget  Chairman  Mao's dictum, which I have never heard him contradict that 'political power grows out of the barrel of a gun'. I wonder whether the Leader of the Opposition remembered that when he said in his discussion with  Mr Chou  En-lai - and this again was quoted by the honourable member for Bradfield, but 1 will quote it again and it will be quoted many times in future months in this country. 
We have been impressed -  That is, the Australian Labor Party delegation - 
. that you've resolutely followed the policy of having no troops outside your own country. 
This is where naivete becomes dangerous, when an obsequious over-eagerness to please refuses to face facts. Or again, when he said of the deposed Cambodian Head of State, Prince Sihanouk:   . . it is tragic for his people that his Government was subverted in this clandestine, this evil way. 
I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition should consult his colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who would be able to inform him that Prince 
Sihanouk was replaced as Head of State by the legal, constitutional processes of the Government of Cambodia. What a gratuitous, completely unwarranted insult to a foreign government. 
I should now like to quote from an article on Chinese foreign policy, and I will give the source of the quotation in a minute. It states: 
There can no longer be any doubt that the Peking-originated phrase 'the wind is blowing from the East' conceals a concrete plan conceived by Mao and his associates as far back as the 1950s. Recently it has been officially referred to as the 'great strategic blueprint of Mao Tse-tung.' It is not difficult to understand its implications for foreign policy. It is crude and primitive. Its central idea is the eventual creation of a superpower which will encompass not only the Far East and South East Asia, but also central, and, later on, parts of western Asia. 
Further on the article states: 
The Maoists' utterances and their actions lead one to note that Mao's projected 'Super Reich' would include, in addition to China itself, Korea, the Mongolian People's Republic, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Indonesia, Malaysia, Burma and various other countries in this region. 
I will tell the honourable member in a minute. This is very interesting, and I ask the House to note that phrase 'various other countries in this region'. The article continues: 
The second stage of the 'storm from the East', projects the expansion towards the Hindustan peninsula, Soviet Central Asia, the Soviet Far East, and finally the Near East. It isn't quite clear at present what the blueprint envisions for the final stage, but the plan does not stop with the  'Maoisation'  of Asia. 'We shall gaze proudly a 5 continents,' one of Mao's spokesmen proclaimed recently. 'China today, tomorrow the whole world . . .' 
Further on the article states: 
Politicians in the heat of debate sometimes exaggerate. But we have before us very clearly stated intentions. There is not a single continent which is left out of the projected  Maoisation  of the world at one stage or another. 
Perhaps honourable members might be excused for believing that these words came out of some Liberal Party publication, that we were engaged in what the Opposition is sometimes pleased to describe as kicking the Communist can. I now inform the House that this article conies from a Communist source. 
Not from the Russian Government. It is translated from Russian. It was written by a man called Ernst Henri. I am not surprised that honourable members opposite have not heard of him. It takes some trouble to find articles which this gentleman has written. He is a Russian journalist of considerable prestige and, if honourable members opposite did a bit of research work themselves, they would find that he has had a longer and wider experience in China than any other senior Soviet journalist. 
He is not a oncer at all. He is a man who has been reading and writing about and visiting China over many years. So let us be under no delusion when we talk or negotiate with China. We sincerely hope that the recent initiative is an indication of a willingness on China's part to modify and perhaps to change the direction of its policies which it has followed in the past. But do not let us forget what those policies have been. The interests of this country are not best served by adopting an obsequious, subservient attitude to China, trying to insinuate ourselves, as the honourable member for Bradfield said, into China's good graces by gratuitously insulting our friends. It is a disastrous foreign policy exercise which results simultaneously in alienating our allies and surrendering and throwing away all our bargaining points for future dealings with one of the most powerful countries in the world. Yet it is now apparent to the Australian people that this is precisely what has been done by the Leader of the Opposition. It is apparent and it will not be forgotten. 
 The  speaker  who preceded me before the suspension of the sitting was the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and I should like to make some reference to his speech before making my own contribution to the debate. The honourable member for Corio questioned the Government's sincerity in its introduction and continuation of national service. I suggest that this legislation proves, firstly, that the Government still considers, as it has always considered, that national service is an essential and integral part of Australia's defence policy and, secondly, that it adopts a flexible attitude to the actual working of the national service scheme. On the other hand, the honourable member for Corio and the Australian Labor Party have made it completely clear that they adopt a totally inflexible attitude - that is, they are totally opposed to providing adequate, defence forces for Australia by means of national service. 
The honourable member for Corio referred to the small proportion of the community which is called upon to carry the burden of defence. He mentioned specifically the 12,000 national servicemen who are in the Army at any one time. He did not mention the large component which is serving in the Citizen Military Forces. He did not mention those on the active reserve or those who, although no longer actually on the reserve, have been fully trained since the introduction of the scheme. I intend to return to this aspect a little later in my speech*. I was somewhat shocked and rather surprised to hear the honourable member for Corio refer to the treatment of conscientious objector applicants as brutal. I consider that this is a gross reflection on the integrity of those who bear the appeals of conscientious objectors, approximately 80 per cent  of  which are successful. 
I think it is just as well in our national Parliament, depending as it does on the party system, that occasionally we should debate an issue on a piece of legislation which clearly delineates the differences between the parties. I do not think it is recognised that much of the legislation coming into this place is largely bipartisan in nature. Of course, there will be differences in emphasis and different degrees of support but, by and large, both sides of the House agree on the actual objectives of the legislation. However, occasionally an issue arises which shows clearly the difference between the two major parties and I think it is a good thing that this is so. Over the last several years, no issue has more clearly defined the differences between the sides of the House than the defence issue. 1 suggest that the attitude of members of the Australian Labor Party to the defence of Australia can be summed up in the phrase: 'They hope for the best'. This is illustrated clearly in the extraordinary tenet of the Labor Party's defence policy - that Australia's strategic frontiers are her natural boundaries. This is a head in the sand attitude. It refuses to take account of the fact that, whether we like it or not, things will happen beyond the low water mark of Australian shores which are of vital concern to this country - things in which we will be concerned. But members of the Opposition say: 'We refuse to take account of these outside influences and we hope for the best.' 
The attitude of the Government has always been to face realities. Australia is in a potentially volatile and unstable area of the world. For that reason, since the major withdrawal of British forces from this area, Australia has entered into an agreement not only with the United Kingdom but also with other small countries of the region for our mutual security - the Five Power Agreement. To give the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  his due, prior to the decision of the Australian Labor Party conference, he did say that he supported the concept of at least Australian naval and air forces being stationed outside Australia. But since the edict went forth that this is no longer acceptable to the Labor Party Federal Conference, of course the Leader of the Opposition has had to toe the line and oppose the stationing of any forces outside Australia. 
The next point I should like to mention is that concerned with the actual forming of the armed forces - the way we raise our armed forces. Members of the Australian Labor Party have always said, and have reiterated again during this debate, that they favour a completely voluntary system. However, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has admitted on previous occasions that it takes at least 6 months to train a man adequately and, at the present voluntary rate of engagement in the Australian armed services, it would take approximately 12 years to reach the number in the Army which our defence advisers consider essential for the adequate defence of this country. Again, this is a policy of hope for the best. The Labor Party hopes that nothing will happen in the intervening period, either in the sense of an emergency in raising and training armed men in 6 months, or, in the sense of the long term, the 12 years it will take to raise our forces to an adequate level. The Opposition hopes for the best that nothing will happen in this interim period. 
Members of the Opposition referred to the possibility of raising the required number of men quickly. On many occasions they have mentioned the report of the Gates Commission in America relating to relying on a higher rate of pay to attract more men into the services. As the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has reminded us, the unemployment situation in America is very different to our own. However,  1  do not think that it is generally recognised that the rate of pay of the Australian private in his initial period of service is a good deal higher than that of his American counterpart. One of the points made in the Gates Commission report was that an effort should be made to raise the service pay to a level commensurate with civilian equivalents. Of course, this has already been done in Australia. We are a long way ahead of America in that respect. 
The Opposition always seems to denigrate the fact that Australia has an army of 8 or 9 battalions. Members of the Opposition say: 'What use is that in time of national emergency'? This illustrates, as few other things could do, the hopeless inability of the Australian Labor Party to understand the problems of defence and the role of national service in defence. I suggest that those who are actually serving in the Army at any one time are merely the tip of the iceberg. The reserves, which, I regret, have been referred to in somewhat disparaging terms, constitute another 20,000 men who have been recently fully trained and who are able to be called up immediately. Since the inception of the national service scheme a further 30,000 men have returned to the community, having passed completely through the training system. They would be available as trained men who would need' very little refresher training. These men are all of military age. They have all been trained under the national service scheme during the last 7 years. In the Australian community we have a reservoir of approximately 50,000 men who are fully trained and able to serve this country in time of national emergency. 
This is not a policy of hope for the best. We all hope that there will be no sudden emergency, but, in contrast to the Australian Labor Party, this Government has been prepared to institute policies which will not make Australia rely on pious hopes. As a result of the national service scheme there are 50,000 fully trained men in the Australian community. This, I suggest, is a lot better than pious hopes. 
I think it was the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who expressed this perhaps in another way in a debate on defence in this place some years ago when he said that what we want is that all troops on foreign soil should go home and stay home. I do not think there is a member in this House who would not agree with that statement. But I think we would be stretching our credibility to the utmost if we believed that in fact would happen. We would be delighted if all the North Vietnamese troops went home from South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. We all would be delighted if Chinese troops had stayed at home and had not gone into South Korea, Tibet and India, and if Russian troops had stayed at home and bad not gone into Hungary and Czechoslovakia. 
No-one doubts the sincerity of those who wish that all troops would go home and stay home. The plain fact is that they will not. If one is not to neglect the very security of one's country one has to take into account the actual realities of the situ ation and not as one would wish them to be. National service was not introduced as a sudden capricious act. It was introduced on the advice of our own expert military advisers. I would like to stress the point to the House that if there should be a change of government the military advisers will still be the same; they will still be giving the same advice to the Opposition as they gave to this Government. 
The Australian Labor Party has made it abundantly clear that if it came to power it would not accept advice coming from men having the highest standards of professional military competence that we have in this country. It would neglect and it would ignore this advice and go its own way. This advice is given in the most important policy area in this country. The defence policies are the central pillar around which all of our domestic policies must be built. It is no good having the most gold plated social services policy, health policy, education policy or any other domestic policies if in our anxiety to improve these fields we neglect the very foundation of the country's security. Yet that is exactly what the Australian Labor Party has indicated that it would do. It would put at risk all that we have achieved and all that we hope to achieve. 
Vietnam and national service have always been confused. But national service was introduced before Vietnam and it will be continued after our withdrawal from Vietnam for exactly the same reasons as it was introduced. Until now this issue has been clouded by the Vietnam war. However, I think that now it should become clear. What are the real motives of those who until now and from now on are refusing to accept their obligations under the national service scheme? So far they have been able to shelter under the clouded issue of the Vietnam war. But this is no longer possible. Now that we are withdrawing from Vietnam this excuse will be removed from them. 
I suggest that these people will be shown up as not merely opposing the Vietnam war, because Australia's involvement there, as I said, is about to come to an end. It is not that they are conscientious objectors - conscientious objection has always been a legitimate cause for exemption from military service. But it is finally becoming quite evident, I suggest, that this microscopic proportion - approximately 0.2 per cent - of the population is in the true sense of the phrase 'anti Australian'. They are not prepared to serve in the Regular Army; they are not prepared to avail themselves of the CMF alternative; and they are not conscientious objectors. 
Above all, they do not represent the overwhelming majority of the youth of Australia. They are dedicated to the overthrow of parliamentary democracy in this country. They are unwilling to accept any obligation to the country which has given them more privileges and more opportunities than practically any other country in the world has to offer. So I suggest: Let us put the full glare of publicity on these people and expose them for what they are - a tiny, unrepresentative sample of our young people who are prepared to avail themselves of all the privileges of Australian citizenship but who are not prepared to accept any of the obligations. I think the time has come when the people of this country will find out for themselves that the alleged motives of this tiny proportion of people are far from their real motives and their real motives are inimical to the very survival of the parliamentary system of government in this country. 
We on our side of the House make no apology for continuing this system of national service. We make no apology for having in the community 50,000 trained men whom we otherwise would not have. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I do not quite know why the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  referred to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the other matters he brought in towards the end of his speech on this clause but it must be quite obvious to him and to the other members of the Opposition that this amendment is unacceptable to the Government because to accept it would completely negate the concept of national service altogether. 
Yes, it would. But to those honourable members who sat through the debate on this Bill the situation must be quite obvious. The Government has made it clear that it is the intention of the Government to continue national service. The Opposition has made it perfectly clear that its intention is to abolish national service at the earliest opportunity. Therefore it must be obvious that this amendment is unacceptable. 1 find it rather extraordinary that while the Opposition were not prepared to vote against the motion for the second reading of the National Service Bill it is prepared to move an amendment in the committee stage which if adopted would virtually abolish the need for this Bill altogether. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has made the point, not only in his last speech a few moments ago but also previously, that in his opinion in today's circumstances there is no necessity for national service. This is the Opposition's stated attitude. On the other hand the Government's stated attitude is that there is a continuing necessity for national service and not merely to cope with the immediate circumstances. The Opposition is continually harping on the fact that there is no obvious immediate threat to Australia but I would make the point that no government is a responsible government if it fails to take into account the possibilities as well as the probabilities. We are concerned not only with the immediate circumstances. 
We believe that there is a necessity for national service to provide a continuing army of adequate size. I would stress the word 'continuing'. This is a guarantee of an army of adequate size and not merely a pious hope, as I said last night, that we would have an army of adequate size. It will also provide adequate reserves, subject to immediate call-up for a period of 3 years, of men fully trained and able to take their place in an operational unit. It will assist in the build up of adequate Citizen Military Forces to fulfil their role in times of emergency. It will provide a further reservoir in the community of those who, although no longer serving actively in the reserve, have had the benefit of full-time training in the Regular Army in Australia. Therefore I cannot see how the Opposition which has neglected to vote against the motion for the second reading of this Bill can bring forward this amendment which is completely unacceptable to the Government. I suggest that this continuing programme - and I stress the word 'continuing* which has an element of guarantee in it - of maintaining an army of adequate size, giving encouragement to the Citizen Military Forces, establishing adequate reserves subject to immediate call-up and providing a further reservoir in the community is an immeasureably superior system and gives immeasureably greater security to this country than rh; Opposition's system which as I read it is one of panic call-up in times of emergency and panic training to get men called up to adequate standards. There can be no comparison between the 2 general approaches of the Government and the Opposition and I therefore have no hesitation in rejecting this amendment. 
The effect of this amendment, which relates to the introduction of parole provisions into the 
National Service Act, would be to put those who have refused to accept their obligations towards their country in a more advantageous position than the vast majority of young people who have accepted their obligations. I think this would be an intolerable situation. The Australian Labor Party is in effect saying that anybody who breaks the law should be better off than anybody who obeys it. I think it is more than coincidence that this line of reasoning has appeared more than once recently in remarks made by honourable members opposite. I can remember an occasion not so very long ago when a leading front bench member of the Opposition, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  expressed the belief that authority has had its day. All I can say is that the reasoning behind this amendment is consistent with that view. 
It may be the view of the Australian Labor Party that those people who denigrate the law and create a situation where they are disobeying the provisions of the National Service Act should have some advantage conferred on them over those young people liable to military service who accept their obligation. All I can say is that it is not the view of the Government. 
There are other practical objections to the amendment. One is that the parole laws are not uniform in the States, Therefore there would inevitably be inequitable variations between the States in the period of imprisonment that had to be served. The very purpose of the parole provisions in the prison system is directed towards the rehabilitation of prisoners. The honourable member for the ACT  (Mr Enderby)  made the point - I do not know whether he meant to relate it in this sense but it is the sense that I read into it - that, in the context of this legislation and the particular people involved, the principle behind a parole system would seem to be quite irrelevant. For all those reasons, I oppose this amendment. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House  of  Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history 
That, as part  of  the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful  for  a country  of  Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least$10,000,000 immediately and make provision for  a  further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about  a  political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on  a  scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least $10m immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 think it is indicative of the importance that the Opposition places on this motion that in the first place it was not moved by a member of the Opposition front bench. In the second place, I think there are only 9 members of the Opposition in the chamber to hear their leading  speaker  on the motion. (Quorum formed). I am not surprised at the Opposition's concern that the weaknesses of the argument of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  will be exposed, and that they have therefore called for a quorum to give me less time to expose them. The honourable member for Kingston referred mainly to the technological change scheme. The only total failure involved here is in the honourable member's inability to understand the scheme itself and, not surprisingly, to understand the broader context of the Australian economy and the part that retraining can play in it. The honourable member is clearly unaware of the training opportunities which have been provided by this Government and I intend to inform him of them. 
The employment schemes made available by the Government are varied but the honourable member for Kingston referred to only one of them. They are: The widow pensioners training scheme; the national service vocational training scheme; the employment training scheme for women restricted from employment by domestic responsibilities; the employment training scheme for Aborigines; the employment training scheme for persons displaced by technological change; and the rural reconstruction employment training scheme to which the honourable member made passing reference. It is clear that the Government has progressively introduced a series of retraining schemes and that a totally misleading interpretation has been given today of their scope and effectiveness. 
My aim therefore will be to give the facts, because the Government recognises the difficulties imposed by the need to adapt our work force to changing circumstances and has taken action to deal with them. I would like first to refer to the technological change programme, which was the main theme of the honourable member's speech. From the remarks of the honourable member for Kingston, I formed a doubt that he has studied the bases on which the scheme was introduced. He made some passing references to it but I do not think that he has understood the bases of the scheme. A massive survey of industry was undertaken by the Department of Labour and National Service covering 2,700 firms and a work force of over 500,000. The percentage of the work force affected by retrenchment due to technological change in fact was less than  i  per cent or, to be exact, 0.4 per cent of the total number in this very representative sample. Over two-thirds of those who were displaced found jobs of equal or better status in the same firms and 59 per cent of the firms involved in this large survey reported that they provided training within their own organisations for workers who had been displaced by technological change. 
So, let us get this problem into perspective. The training scheme was introduced with the endorsement of and after discussion with the National Labour Advisory Council which, of course, includes union and employer representatives. In turn, an advisory committee was established, again with employer and union representatives. This committee last met only a few weeks ago - I would like the honourable member for Kingston to take particular note of this - and it reported to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  that there was no need for concern because few people had taken advantage of the retraining opportunities offered. However, it is examining how and in what direction the scope of the scheme could be expanded. I suggest that these comments by a committee which includes representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions are in marked contrast to the rather intemperate language used by the honourable member for Kingston. This scheme is an excellent example of foresight. Instead of waiting until a need was acute and reacting to the situation, the Government looked ahead and established the scheme on a precautionary basis. I should like here to take issue with the honourable member for Kingston who said that it should not be a matter for pride that so few people are taking advantage of this scheme. I think that this is a remarkably good sign that not only the Government but also individual firms have looked ahead. I think it is of great importance that firms are taking steps to train their own work force as new skills become required. I welcome the fact that the demand on the scheme so far has been very moderate. 
I should like to turn for a moment to the rural retraining scheme because that also was given passing reference by the honourable member for Kingston. It is an extraordinary and ironical situation to hear the problems of rural reconstruction being discussed by Opposition members, none of whom have practical knowledge of the problems involved. Admittedly, the matter of public importance having been raised for discussion, this situation had to occur because there are no members opposite with first hand practical knowledge of the problems involved in rural industries. I think the Australian electors should be reminded of this: The Party which puts itself forward as the alternative government of Australia has in this House not one member with practical knowledge in this area. How on earth could such a Party know much about the current problems in rural industries except in an academic, second hand sort of way? This has been demonstrated time and time again in this House and was demonstrated today by the way the honourable member for Kingston glossed over this point. 
The problems involved in the rural industries are human, every bit as much as they arc economic and this the Opposition clearly has failed to grasp. It appeared from the statement issued some time ago by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  who I understand is to follow me in this debate, that the success or otherwise of the scheme is to be measured by the number of people taking part in it. This exhibits a lamentable lack of understanding of the attitude of the farming community. A decision to leave the business of farming is not just like a decision to choose another job because, in many cases, it is a decision which will affect the whole family and, in most cases the whole way of life to which it has been accustomed. An irrevocable decision of this kind is not a thing which we would expect to be made in a hurry. 
I regret that, owing id the action of the Opposition, I have so little time to canvass these issues. I have no doubt that that will be done most capably by speakers who will follow me. However, I think it is clear that the Government has provided the opportunity for retraining. It cannot direct people to enter training, nor should it entice them to do so if they prefer to reestablish themselves in the work force without using the training facilities that have been provided by the Government or the training facilities that have been made available by private enterprise. The Government has done its part in a broad spectrum of activities and it is up to the individual himself - and it is the individual to whom the Government gives prominence - to decide how he will run his life. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: ' 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Par eel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of certain citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That the proposed visit to Australia of the Red Army Choir is an affront to migrants from Warsaw Pact countries. 
Such visit is objectionable not only because of the treatment of political prisoners by the Soviet Union but also because it may precipitate violence similar to that experienced during the South African Rugby Tour. 
the denial of human rights and civil liberties in the U.S.S.R. is of more urgent consideration than development of cultural exchanges between the U.S.S.R. and Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore, humbly pray that the House urge the Government to take the necessary steps to have the proposed Red Army Choir tour cancelled. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  indicate his support for conciliation and, if necessary, arbitration in the settlement of industrial disputes. But he then went on to suggest that the amendments now proposed will produce not harmony but disharmony. The facts of life are that there is a very considerable degree of disharmony already, otherwise there would be no need for this legislation. So it is not intended to produce disharmony but to deal with it. 
The honourable member for Stirling alleged that undue pressure was exerted on the Public Service Board in order to prevent wage rises, but he said nothing about the irresponsible pressure exerted by certain unions on other workers and the community generally when they refuse to make use of the means available to them to deal with their claims and resort to direct action, when 'hey refuse to take advantage of the very processes of conciliation and arbitration which the honourable member for Stirling says he supports. 
In debating the amendments to the Public Service Arbitration Act incorporated in this Bill I suggest that first of all we have to ask ourselves 2 questions: First, is the legislation necessary? Secondly, is the legislation appropriate? From an examination of the evidence available it is apparent the answer is 'yes' to both questions, a regrettable but inevitable result of recent developments in the industrial relations field affecting the Public Service area. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech referred to the substantially changed conditions in the Commonwealth Public Service since the original Public Service Arbitration Act was passed. Then - some 50 years ago - the Act was concerned largely with white collar workers not engaged in industrial duties. Now 6 per cent of all wage and salary earners in Australia are within the jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitration Act - a very significant fact in itself. Many of these workers are. engaged in industrial type employment. In this situation it is reasonable to ask why this 250,000 strong section of the work force should be treated any differently from the rest of the Australian workers, and there is A considerable difference as things stand at present. 
Whereas under section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act an industrial situation can be notified to the commission either by unions or management, no such procedure is available under the Public Service Arbitration Act. Considering the number of workers engaged in the Public Service area and the tremendous influence they exert on the economy and the community generally, this is a ridiculous situation. Under the existing legislation the only way in which management can get an issue before the Public Service Arbitrator is 'to seek to vary an existing determination of the Arbitrator', to quote the Minister's second reading speech. Applications referring to disputes may take up to 5 weeks before they can be heard by the Arbitrator. This again is a ridiculous situation. Clearly we are dealing here with a major industrial conciliation and arbitration problem and there is an equally clear requirement that legislation be introduced to cope with it. Therefore, the question 'Is the legislation necessary?' has been answered in the affirmative. 
At this stage I think it is appropriate to examine the volume of business handled by the Public Service Arbitrator's office. In 1969 serious strains were being placed on the system of Public Service arbitration, and legislation was brought down enabling Deputy Arbitrators to be. appointed. In 1961 a total of 100 applications were up for hearing, but this had increased to 424 in 1965 and to 630 last year, and this volume of business is continuing. Just as the legislation was amended in 1969 to deal with the large increase in volume of business handled by the Public Service Arbitrator's office, so now amendments are introduced to deal with the problem posed  by  'industrial situations' as denned. 
However, I think it should be mentioned that many unions with employees in the Public Service do in fact follow the proce dures available to them, whereby when they are not satisfied by the response of management to their claims, they bring the matter before the Public Service Arbitrator. These remarks apply particularly to the professional employees concerned. For example, in 1970-71 there were 249 consent agreements between the unions and the Public Service Board and 31 arbitrated decisions by the Public Service Arbitrator. 
Unfortunately and regrettably a growing number of unions are refusing to use the normal channels to press their claims and are resorting to direct industrial action. In the Post Office, for example, there were 16 stoppages of work in the 17 years between 1950 and 1967. In the 5 years between 1968 and 1972 there were 136 stoppages of work. Stoppages on a national scale numbered 6 between 1950 and 1967 and 13 between 1968 and 1972. I emphasize that these figures relate to stoppages of work only and not to bans on performance of various types of work. This last technique should be particularly noted. Those who engage in it say they are not on strike and actually claim, and get paid, full wages while they are refusing to perform work which is within the normal terms of their employment. 
I would just like to relate this sort of attitude to the industry in which I have had most personal experience. I can just imagine the situation where a man comes along in the morning and says: 'I do not mind driving the tractor today, but I do not think I feel like doing any fencing'. I can imagine the reaction of some bosses of the board if the rousie came along and said: 'I will pick up the fleeces this morning but I am not doing any broom work', or vice versa. It would be worth at least a week's wages to see the expression on the faces of some people I can call to mind. I wonder what the public would think of us if we as parliamentarians decided that we would deal with all electorate business except, for example, social services and repatriation cases. 
We have reached an extraordinary stage when in a country with a relatively poor productivity performance we put up wilh people refusing to perform work which is part of their normal employment and then getting paid their full wages, just because we have no satisfactory method of dealing with the situation. Apparently those who see nothing wrong with this sort of thing believe that there should be one law for Australians who work in private employment but another different law for those in the Commonwealth Public Service. The Government does not believe that this should be so and therefore has introduced this legislation. That brings me to the second question I posed at the opening of my speech: ls the legislation appropriate for dealing with the problem? 
The first thing which should be said is that in an industrial situation, as defined in the Bill, the situation can be referred to the Public Service Arbitrator or his  deputy,  who is then required to call a conference of the parties forthwith. This is an essential element of the legislation to eliminate the long period of delay which could, and in fact did. make the previous legislation largely ineffective in dealing with disputes. Again I emphasise that this provision puts employees subject to the Public Service Arbitration Act on the same footing as those subject to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, including - I draw the attention of the House to this - giving unions the right to make an application to the Public Service Arbitrator to call a conference on matters affecting them. The Public Service Arbitrator can hear parties and make such determinations as he thinks necessary or desirable. 
Included m the Arbitrator's powers would be the ability to stand down on a no work, no pay basis. However, I draw the attention of the House particularly to the fact that this legislation does not impose such a penalty. It can be invoked only when, after due investigation, the Public Service Arbitrator considers it justified. I cannot see anything fairer than that. If an employee claims that he is not on strike, but is not prepared to do the work for which he is employed, there does not seem to be much logic in paying him his normal wage. 
In addition, limitations on work can and do have the effect of denying the opportunity to other Commonwealth employees not directly concerned in the dispute to perform their normal duties. In such circumstances, the Bill before us will give power to the Arbitrator to permit management to stand down employees so affected. 
I would hope that this may bring home to those whose acts have resulted in their fellow workers being denied the right to work some appreciation of their responsibilities to the workers they have disadvantaged and to the community as a whole. I believe this legislation is appropriate in dealing with this problem. 
There is one further matter to which I should refer, and that is the question of discussions between the Government, represented by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  and the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations. This matter was referred to by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  who preceded me in this debate. During the tripartite talks which preceded the Minister's statement of 7th December last year, the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations indicated that it wished to make representations to and have discussions with the Government on matters affecting the Public Service Aribtration Act. I want to make it clear that the present Bill before the House does not refer to any of the points raised in submissions made by the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations to the Minister. However, the Minister made a special trip to Melbourne to inform the CCPSO of the contents of this legislation prior to its introduction in the House. The Minister repeated his original offer to hold discussions prior to introducing legislation affecting matters raised by the CCPSO. 
I think that it is also important to note that the Government puts a very high priority on this legislation and, in such circumstances, the Government must reserve to itself the right as to when it is to be introduced. To sum up, if this country is to maintain its standard of living, let alone improve it, there will have to be a much greater awareness of the inevitable results of irresponsible actions such as this Bill is designed to circumvent. I support the Bill, as 1 am sure will the overwhelming majority of Australian citizens. 
 The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  referred to the statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  as a subterfuge. I am not quite sure of the honourable member's definition of a subterfuge, but mine would not include an issue which has been debated  3  times in this House - this is the third time - and twice in the Senate. I would have thought that that would have given any subject a fair airing. Now the honourable member for Dawson, supported by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  is asking for a referendum. 
The honourable member was asking for the partial relaxation of the ban. I think this question of a referendum has to be considered in this light: Most important of all, there was no referendum before the embargo on the export of merino rams was imposed in  1929.  Secondly, what is envisaged, and what has happened, is not an abolition of the export ban but only a very limited relaxation of it. Thirdly, the relaxation is subject to stringent conditions which have been designed by wool growers themselves to safeguard the interests of Australian wool growers. Finally, the organisation which recommended a relaxation of the ban to the Government is made up of representatives of all Federal wool grower organisations, and the decision of the Australian Wool Industry Conference to make this recommendation was carried in the first place by a majority of  37  votes to  16  votes. No request was received by the Government for a referendum then. It is worth noting that on  2  occasions this issue has gone back to the AWIC and on another occasion it has gone back to the executive of the AWIC. On none of those occasions has there been a request from the grower organisation to hold a referendum on this matter. 
The honourable member for Riverina at one stage had me worried a bit when he got on to wheat sales to China. However, he then got back to the subject of the debate when he implied that the embargo on the export of merino rams had been lifted - I remind him again that it has not been lifted; it has been partially relaxed - in defiance of the Parliament and some farmer organisations. One might just as well argue, as I pointed out a moment ago, that the embargo was imposed in defiance of the Parliament and some grower organisations. No vole was held in the Parliament when the embargo was imposed and no question was asked of the grower organisations, which were certainly not unanimous about the introduction of the embargo. The honourable member for Riverina referred repeatedly, as I understood him, to there having been no vote held in this House on this question. I think the honourable member . for Riverina must have been the only member of the House unaware that when the last debate occurred in this House and the motion was moved that the House take note of the Minister's statement - I was quite clear in my mind - the House was endorsing the Minister's statement. 
My recollection of the matter may be inaccurate, but that is as I remember it. I will stand corrected if I look up the record and find that I am wrong. The House endorsed the Minister's statement. Perhaps the honourable member for Riverina was so busy talking at the time, which is not exactly an unusual occurrence in this place, that he missed what was going on. 
I do not think that any other single issue concerned with primary industry has had such a long history of so much illinformed comment, particularly from people with little or no knowledge of the principles involved or of the industry itself. We are indebted to the Minister for Primary Industry for giving us a clear, concise account of all that has happened since the original decision to impose the ban. Although it has been said before, it should be repeated - I do so again - that this ban was imposed without a vote in this Parliament. It is also interesting that the original reason given for imposing the ban was the possibility of a local shortage of rams; that is, that Australian wool growers might not be able to buy enough rams for their own requirements. But quite clearly, whatever else may be said, this does not apply today. For a start, the number of rams involved, 300 a year, is extremely small in relation to the total number of rams available. I do not have the latest figures, but in 1967 some 200,000 merino rams were sold and some 300,000 remained unsold. My guess is that the proportion of unsold rams would be even higher today. But quite apart from that, the rams which would be bought for overseas interests would certainly not be the flock rams required by the traditional family wool grower about whom the honourable member for Dawson was talking. The expenses involved in exporting rams would certainly rule out the possibility of anything except stud rams being exported. It is also important to note that neither would the rams exported be the best rams in the country. Stud breeders always keep their top reserves for use in their own stud. So the original reasons for imposing the ban are irrelevant. 
Other reasons have, of course, been put forward over the years but no new ones have appeared in this debate. For example, it has often been put in highly emotional terms that we would be selling our heritage if the ban is relaxed. Let us look a bit more closely at that argument. The first fact which should be noted is that Australia has no monopoly of the genes of the merino sheep. There are large flocks of high quality in South Africa, and millions of merinos in Russia. So the gene pool already extends far beyond Australia, and this has always been so. Then there is the fact that in the 1930s the ban on the export of stud sheep was lifted for PO.warths and corriedales, on the very sound ground that these breeds were available in other countries anyway. It will no doubt be news to the Opposition that genetically the corriedale is 50 per cent merino and the polwarth is 75 per cent merino. There is nothing magical in merino wool in comparison with corriedale or polwarth wool. We now know that easily the most important characteristic of wool is its fibre diameter. But I have seen core-test certificates of corriedale wool which give the same micron measurement as strong merino wool, just as I have seen core-test certificates of polwarth wool which give the same micron measurement as medium merino wool. So far as wool use is concerned, the manufacturer could not care less what the breed is. What concerns him is the manufacturing characteristics of the wool. The most important element involved is fibre diameter, which can be the same for different breeds of sheep. For over 30 years sheep producing wool of similar micron measurement to merino wool have been freely exported from Australia. 
The final extension of the selling our heritage argument is that it is really the fine wool we should be worrying about. It is said that fine wool sheep are unique to Australia and we must maintain our monopoly of them. Here again the argument does not stand up. Firstly, it is very doubtful whether we do in fact have a monopoly of fine wool sheep, which may be. defined roughly as those having wool with a micron measurement of less than 19. Secondly - and the honourable member for Dawson did mention this point - the environment in which the wool is grown has a very large influence on the type of wool produced, and whether in fact sheep of a particular strain can survive is often determined by the environment in which they live. It is extremely interesting to note that the rams bought for export so far have tended to be the stronger wool types. The number of true fine wool types bought for export is small because overseas countries have found that their conditions do not favour the growing of this kind of wool. 
So the influence of the rams exported as a result of the relaxation of the ban will probably not be great. Such influence as they do have should be beneficial - upgrading the quality of wool generally and encouraging the continued use of wool. These are points which have been made before, but they are valuable points and valid points in answer to the argument sometimes put forward in favour of retaining the ban, and so I have repeated them today. But other issues are involved. One of the principal ones is the relationship between government and industry organisations. It is now 10 years since the question of relaxing the ban on the export of merino rams was referred to the AWIC, the national body of wool growers, following a recommendation in favour of relaxing the ban having been made 11 years before by the Australian Agricultural Council. So the original recommendation was made 21 years ago. During its consideration of the proposal, the Australian Wool Industry Conference obtained expert advice from many bodies including the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the wool industry itself. In addition, the Australian Wool Board prepared a most comprehensive paper on the subject. Finally, 6 years after the matter was referred to it, the AWIC recommended in favour of a relaxation of the ban, subject to certain specific conditions. 
Surely no issue has been looked at more closely or for a longer period. Acting on the advice of the industry, the Government relaxed the ban. However, following representations from some growers who felt that their voice had not" been heard,- a decision was delayed. After some months, the executive of the AWIC confirmed its original decision. It said that it had no reason to alter its original recommendation. Since 1st February 1970, some 280 rams have been sold to overseas buyers. During this period the AWIC has twice considered the issue, the last time being in November last year. Both times, it supported the relaxing of the ban. Never before have so many opportunities been given to an industry organisation to change its mind if it so wanted. On each occasion, the original decision was confirmed. It seems to me to be extraordinary that in these circumstances the Opposition wishes to override the clearly expressed and several times repeated wishes of the national wool grower body. Presumably, honourable members opposite have set themselves up as a greater authority than the body which the industry itself has nominated to make recommendations to the Government after that body has spent some 6 years making the most exhaustive examination ot the subject. I think that wool growers will be watching the Opposition's attitude closely since no doubt the same approach will be adopted by it if it were ever to become the Government. 
The other matter to which I would like to refer is the role of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in this issue. The ACTU has taken it on itself to frustrate the policies of the Australian national body of wool growers and to defy a decision of the national Government on a subject which has nothing whatever to do with the legitimate industrial objectives which it pursues on behalf of its members and a subject on which it could not be expected to have expert knowledge. It is an extraordinary example of the misuse of power by the ACTU on a matter quite unconnected with the purposes for which that body was established. It has damaged Australia's reputation for reliability and integrity as an international trading nation, and has gravely disadvantaged the breeders and buyers who have been put to great trouble and expense in trying to overcome the obstacles that the ACTU has put in the way of exporting sheep bought in good faith and according to the conditions recommended by the AWIC. In addition, it has endangered the future high standard of the Australian wool clip. 
In the present very difficult conditions facing wool growers and stud breeders, especially, because naturally costs involved in stud breeding are considerably higher than they are in commercial flocks, there is a very real danger of our great parent studs finding that such work is no longer worth the candle. If this should happen, we would indeed be in a position where our local growers might find it difficult to obtain their requirements and our clip standards would inevitably decline. By partially relaxing the export ban on merino rams competition and, therefore, prices at stud sales would be improved and there would be a new incentive to stud breeders not only to continue their enterprises but also to raise the quality of their product to the benefit of commercial growers and the Australian clip as a whole. It is bad enough for our primary producers to have to sell most of their output on the open world market while at the same time they have to buy many of their inputs on a protected home market. But here we have an attempt to prevent producers having any export market at all. As far as I am aware, it is the only example in Australia of such a situation. I support the Government in its decision to rectify the restrictions and discrimination suffered by one very valuable section of our primary producers. 
It is regrettable that there should be a need to propose for discussion this definite matter of public importance. I should have thought that its critical implications for the future of South Vietnam due to the full-scale invasion by the North were self evident and that its critical implications for the future security of Australia would have been obvious to everyone. However, recent statements from Australian Labor Party spokesmen indicate that there is a need for the Government to clarify this issue and provide an opportunity for all sections of the Opposition to state where they stand in relation to it. The first point I make is that even the Australian Labor Party would agree that the people of South Vietnam are facing a critical situation. The second point is that this has been brought about by aggression from the north, and the third is that this combination of circumstances has serious implications for the security of Australia. 
No doubt the Opposition will claim that the recent resolutions from the Victorian State Council of its Party are not ALP policy. The people of Australia can be forgiven for wondering just what is the policy of the ALP in this regard. It is not the first time the impression has been given that many members of the ALP are not so much interested in achieving a peaceful settlement in Vietnam as they are in supporting a military victory by the forces of North Vietnam. I hope that the Opposition speakers in this debate will not stretch the credulity of this House by asking us to believe that the war in Vietnam is merely a civil war; that in fact there has been no invasion. There is overwhelming evidence to show that the latest North Vietnamese military action is in reality invasion in the conventional military sense. 
No longer is there any pretence that this action has widespread support amongst the local population. What sort of local population would have highly sophisticated armoured weapons, guided missiles and the aircraft that have reportedly been used. Make no mistake about it. This is indeed a blatant attack by one country with the deliberate objective of overrunning and subjugating another by the force of arms. What need would there have been for such an invasion if, as some Opposition members claim, there was widespread local support for the communist cause? The reaction of the local population brings back memories of refugees fleeing before the Nazi invasion of Europe in the 1940s. If this is a liberating army, where are the flags waving in the villages and hamlets to welcome it? One effect of the invasion is to drive the civil population from their farms and homes, leaving everything, to seek refuge in areas controlled by local South Vietnamese forces. 
It is preposterous for the Opposition any longer to call this a civil war, to pretend that it has large scale backing at the grass roots level. This blatant attack, an echo of the blitzkrieg tactics of some 30 years ago, demands a statement from the Government so that all Australians and the rest of the world may be left in no doubt as to where we stand in condemning this attack by North Vietnam to achieve by military means what it has been unable to achieve by other means, including the now familiar subversive and terrorist tactics of the socalled war of national liberation. In this situation it would have been expected that all sections of the Australian community would have been prepared to recognise the valiant efforts of South Vietnam to maintain its identity and territorial integrity. Yet we have the extraordinary spectacle of officials of the Party aspiring to govern Australia openly and loudly identifying themselves with the forces of communist aggression and openly and loudly calling for a North Vietnamese military victory. 
While a significant section of the ALP openly gives its support to North Vietnam, the Australian Government has a duty to make our position as a nation quite clear. If we fail to do so, our alliances , and relations with our friends, whose mutual cooperation and respect are vital to -the maintenance of peace and stability in our region, will inevitably be undermined. There is an urgent need to re-assure our friends that while this may be the policy of the left wing of the Opposition it is not Government policy. One is forced to ask whether it is in fact the intention of the increasingly powerful left wing faction in the ALP to undermine our efforts to maintain stability in this region. Let us not forget that ALP policies, both foreign and domestic, are made not by the elected parliamentary representatives but by the Party organisation outside Parliament itself. 
This House should closely examine the implications for the future security of this country of the previously demonstrated links between events and policies concerning the notorious Victorian Branch of the ALP and statements by leading members of the Federal Parliamentary Australian Labor Party. The policies and attitudes of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  himself on foreign affairs and defence follow the dictates of the left wing Victorian ALP as predictably as night follows day. In June 1970, for example, the State Conference of the Victorian ALP resolved unanimously to encourage young Australians to refuse to 'fight in a dirty war in Vietnam', and signed a declaration confirming its intention of defying the Crimes Act by such encouragement. Just 3 months later we had the spectacle of the Leader of the Opposition advising national servicemen to give written advice that if they were ordered to Vietnam they would not obey that order. 
The ALP Federal Conference, at the insistence of Victorian delegates, gave support to the Moratorium movement. It was not long before we saw the Leader of the Opposition flirting with moratorium activities outside this very Parliament. The Victorian ALP then endorsed a draft resister as a candidate for the Federal election. The  Chairman, Mr Crawford,  gave the order that the ALP should be proud to have him as a candidate'. The Leader of the Opposition has been equivocal on this issue, but I have never seen a statement from him repudiating the candidate. Indeed, the candidate himself has been quoted as saying that he believed he had the support of the Leader of the Opposition. Now the Victorian ALP has completely unfurled its true colours and called for a military victory by the North Vietnamese communist invaders. How long will it be before the 
Leader of the Opposition falls into line with this declaration and adds further weight to this gross distortion of Australia's policies and humane and strategic interests? Only recently we heard the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  calling for public demonstrations in support of North Vietnam - calling for support for a country against whose aggression Australian troops, in association with our allies, and those of South Vietnam have recently been fighting - for a military victory by those against whom we have been fighting in areas where we still have military advisers, civil aid teams and medical teams. 
I have seen no public repudiation by the Australian Labor Party of the honourable member for Lalor for calling for support for North Vietnam, for an end to the American alliance. In the radio programme PM' on 14th April, after the recent debate in this House on the issue of Vietnam, the honourable member for Lalor, in answering a question as to what the Leader of the Opposition thought about his views, is recorded as saying: 
Well,  Mr Whitlam  told me after I sat down that I had just made a very compelling speech indeed. 
There are many other examples of the ALP's dislike of America and examples of its support for countries whose whole philosophy is completely opposed to our own. One example is the opposition to the United States bases such as North West Cape, Pine Gap and Woomera. Here again we see the dominance of the left wing resulting in the formation of official ALP policy. What nonsense it is for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  to claim that there is really not much difference between the defence policies of the Opposition and the Government. 
Finally, we have the Leader of the Opposition when he visited China last year supporting, as I understand it, the substance of the 7 points put forward by the provisional revolutionary government of South Vietnam for settling the war there - proposals which the  President  of the United States has reportedly described as joining with your enemies in order to destroy your friends'. In these circumstances,  Mr Speaker,  I feel that the House is entitled to hear from the Government its attitude to the present situation in South Vietnam and how it regards the situation in relation to Australia's security. 
The Opposition was faced with an impossible task in this debate because it had to try to piece together the tattered remains of its industrial relations policy and try to make coherent and responsible what has become incoherent and irresponsible. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  tried hard but he failed, because the job just could not be done. To understand why, we have to examine the recent history of the Australian Labor Party's efforts in this field. First of all we had that extraordinary exercise of the so-called mini-campaign on television last year. I say extraordinary' because the policy lasted less than 48 hours. That is not very long for a policy which took months of work to prepare and a reputed $20,000 to publicise. To give the honourable member for Hindmarsh his due, he at least recognised that there had to be sanctions provisions of some sort, but his own Party room, at the instigation and under the influence of the left wing humiliated and repudiated him. I understand the honourable member for 
Hindmarsh now claims that his original policy has been re-endorsed by the ALP Executive. Bearing in mind what happened in Caucus last time I would not care to take a bet on how long it will last, because clearly a powerful faction within the ALP is bitterly opposed to it. 
What is the current position? We know that the last ALP Conference insisted on repeal of any penalties against arbitral decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or indeed decisions of a conciliating committee. That is official ALP policy. It is no coincidence that it is also the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions.  Mr Hawke  has said: 'We will not tolerate the concept of penal provisions and will ignore them'. However at the Victorian State Council of the ALP in June last year  Mr Hawke  proposed that agreements, freely accepted by both sides, could contain some sort of sanction. Running true to form the Victorian State Council rejected even that. In September 1971 the ACTU Congress adopted a resolution instructing its Executive 'to work out ways and means of ensuring that industrial agreements are honoured by the trade union movement'. In November the ACTU Executive noted this decision by Congress. However, because of the decision of the Victorian State Council of the ALP,  Mr Hawke  as a Victorian delegate to the ALP Federal Conference was put in the ridiculous position of having to oppose his own policy as  President  of the ACTU. If  Mr Hawke  has to support diametrically opposed policies, according to what hat he happens to be wearing at the time, no wonder the ordinary man in the street is confused; no wonder the last vestige of credibility or even consistency has disappeared from ALP industrial relations policy. It is confusing enough when the parliamentary party repudiates its own shadow minister but it becomes quite impossible to follow when the parliamentary party's master, the ALP Executive, is in turn faced with obvious disagreement within the Labor movement. 
However, there is , nothing confusing about one particular aspect of ALP policy, although there has been an understandable reluctance to say anything about it. I refer to a resolution put at the last ALP Federal Executive meeting in Townsville in 
December 1971, I believe largely at the instigation of the Victorian Delegate,  Mr W.  H. Hartley - and incidentally what nonsense that makes of any claim to have reformed the Victorian Branch of the ALP. The resolution was in the following terms: 
Unions should be immune for actions in common law against private or civil wrongs alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of a trade union in furtherance of a trade dispute. 
In other words, the Federal Executive has considered a future Labor Government placing union officers above the law. They would be free from civil liability for such industrial actions as damage to property, assault, trespass and conspiracy, provided only that they could claim to be acting on behalf of a trade union. This would be the most arrogant, dangerous policy ever to be adopted by any Australian political parly. It is an invitation to anarchy, and is clearly designed to destroy the very basis of our society - equality under the law. Not only does the ALP believe unions unions should be immune from penalties under industrial law; it believes that unions should be immune from the law altogether. It is interesting to note what  Mr J.  Mundey, New South Wales Secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation and a member of the National Committee of the Communist Party of Australia has to say on this subject. He said: 
Deliberate damage to property . . . had  a  devastating effect on employers, government and police alike. In this dispute it took the class enemy by surprise. Future action of this type would be most successful if hundreds and thousands of strikers are involved so making it difficult for full police of government defence of the employer's property. 
We therefore have the almost unbelievable situation that the alternative government in this country considered not merely condoning this sort of action but deliberately selling out to make it lawful. This is what the ALP calls an industrial relations policy! It is a travesty of a policy and every responsible citizen in this country will recognise its dangers and implications. 
I shall now turn to this legislation and what the Government proposes. At first sight the Bill might be seen as being concerned only with our system of conciliation and arbitration and those people and organisations registered and operating within it. However, further reflection will make it clear that it involves both the structure and management of the economy. But it does not seem to have been generally appreciated that it is fundamental to the Australian national character. If I had to name one principle on which an Australian places more importance than any other it is the concept of a 'fair go', and that is exactly why the conciliation and arbitration system was originally established. In the first place it was designed to provide a framework for the equitable settlement of industrial disputes or potential disputes through conciliation, or failing that through arbitration; in the second to ensure, so far as it is possible to do so, comparative wage justice - a phrase used so glibly these days that people often tend to forget its real meaning - although I maintain that a 'fair go' is not a bad colloquial translation because equal pay for work of equal value is a vital principle of our system. Finally and perhaps most important of all the conciliation and arbitration system aims to preserve the public interest both in the settlement of disputes and the setting of minimum wage levels. 
All these functions have one factor in common, the object of ensuring a 'fair go'; whether h be in settling disputes between management and labour, or ensuring that wages are not dependent on the use or misuse of industrial power, or watching so that the community in general, the public interest, ls preserved in the above processes. This is why this Government firmly believes, as have ali Governments before it, that a formal structure of conciliation and arbitration is preferable to what is generally loosely termed collective bargaining. 
I should now like to examine how this legislation is designed to fulfil these 3 objectives. Under the present legislation the situation frequently occurs where the same person who has failed to settle a dispute by conciliation is called upon to settle it by arbitration. Inevitably the arbitral discussions start at the point where conciliation left off. The proposed complete separation of powers is designed to correct this undesirable situation. Under this Bill, Conciliation and Arbitration Commissioners will have equal status, proving that the Government recognises the importance of the conciliation process and the desirability of settling disputes by this means if possible. The aim has been not only to emphasise the importance of conciliation but to facilitate it. 
But on occasions it will probably turn out to be impossible to reach agreement. Some element of conflict between management, whether public or private, and labour appears to be inevitable. I say appears to be because in the great majority of cases, given goodwill and a sense of responsibility on both sides, it should be possible to avoid conflict. I deplore the attitude of 'them and us' which tends to appear during discussions and negotiations. It should be unnecessary in today's political and economic environment and is merely evidence that one or both sides is unwilling or unable to act in accordance with the principles of goodwill and a sense of responsibility. The 'them and us' attitude should be a relic of the past. 
Surely it is now obvious that seriously disadvantaging one party to any negotiations on terms and conditions of employment must sooner or later result in harm to both. Leaving aside for the moment the industrial relations aspect, if management attempts to make unreasonable profits by keeping wages unreasonably low, the purchasing power of the wage earners in the community is reduced and this eventually will be reflected in lower overall demand and lower business activity. On the other hand, if labour makes unreasonable demands it will affect the ability of management to remain competitive and make a reasonable profit, leading to a reluctance to make investment decisions and therefore endangering future job opportunities. This last situation has an ominously familiar ring at the moment and I shall have more to say about it in a minute. So good industrial relations in the widest sense must largely depend on being willing and able to look beyond the immediate issues and to assess the longer-term implications of any proposal or agreement. Unfortunately there are still too many examples which show a lamentable lack of appreciation of this fundamental principle. And that comment applies to both sides of the industrial relations fence. 
I now come to the question of comparative wage justice. By its very nature wage fixing by collective bargaining virtually destroys the concept of equal pay for work of equal value. This statement is valid whether the whole system depends on collective bargaining or whether the latter is superimposed on a minimum wage arrived at by conciliation and/or arbitration as advocated by the ALP. The inevitable result will be to disadvantage those sections of the community in the weakest industrial position - the pensioners, those on fixed incomes and very importantly, from a national point of view, the producers who cannot pass on their costs. Included in the latter group are of course farmers and other exporters who have to compete on world markets. Many of Australia's biggest industries are vitally dependent on export markets. If the local cost structure made it impossible for them to remain internationally competitive the result would be catastrophic to the country. We would be so busy compensating exporters for their high costs, the resulting decline in resources available to satisfy all the other urgent and legitimate claims of our society would greatly retard our social and economic development. 
Lord Balogh, Economic Adviser to the last United Kingdom Labour Government exposed the fallacy of the arguments in favour of collective bargaining when he pointed out that while the practice might show benefits to some highly organised sections of the community, these had been gained at the expense of other sections. In Lord Balogh's view the total loss outweighed the benefits, so the country as a whole was worse off. 
I believe he was. In his book 'The Battle of Downing Street', Jenkins refers to the 'insoluble post-war equation in which full employment and free collective bargaining had somehow to produce a satisfactory rate of economic growth'. Shonefield in his Note of Reservation to the Donovan Report mentions the failure to reconcile the practice of free collective bargaining . . . with policies for full employment and economic growth'. 
It cannot be too strongly emphasised that higher wages for a section of the workforce can only make the national cake bigger if they are accompanied by a corresponding rise in productivity. Otherwise the bigger slice represented by these wages can be gained only by taking a bite out of the rest of the cake leaving less for the other wage-earners or company profits. This brings up the theory of constant shares and merges into the third argument in favour of our conciliation and arbitration system, and that is preserving the public interest. The theory states that the proportion of national income represented by wages and salaries on the one hand and company profits on the other varies only within fairly narrow limits over a period of time. There is a mass of evidence to support the theory which completely refutes the parrot cry of the Opposition that company profits -re gained at the expense of wage-earners. In 1953-54 salaries and wages were 69.1 ner cent of national income. In 1963-64, 67.1 per cent and in 1970-71 they were 71 per cent. Company income figures were! 12.3 per cent, 11.6 per cent and 8.9 per cent respectively. Incidentally these figures exclude personal farm income which could distort the true picture. 
While it is absolutely clear that profits have not increased in relation to wages ;.nd salaries, the really important thing is to establish just why the theory is valid. Hie reason seems to be that once profits reach a certain proportion of national income, higher wages can be justified and obtained. However, once profits fall to an unacceptable level, potential investors tend either to take their money elsewhere or wait until the economic climate enables them to get a more satisfactory return. This is the vital point. If wage claims are pushed beyond the limit at which reasonable profits are obtainable, investment halts or at least slows down. Surely it must be obvious that this is exactly what has happened in this country. A potential investor is not encouraged to establish or expand an enterprise when salaries and wages rise over 12 per cent in a year when productivity rises by less than 2 per cent. No wonder there has been some slow-down in business activity, even in this country with a sound economy and with perhaps more natural advantages than any other. I should like to emphasise the point by quoting from the last British budget speech. It states: 
If particular groups insist on pricing themselves out of jobs and the nation out of business,  no  Government can secure full employment.. , 
This brings up the question of responsibility and accountability. When the conciliation and arbitration system was introduced the balance of industrial power was probably in favour of the employer and means were needed to ensure that this power was not used irresponsibly to the disadvantage of employees. Today the balance has shifted to favour the other side and there is a corresponding obligation on the trades unions to act responsibly. Shonfield again has something very relevant to say on this issue. He said: 
The trade unions can by a denial of wage restraint oblige Governments (unless they are prepared  to  follow a politically dangerous course of periodic devaluations) to defend the exchange rate wilh policies of deflation which bite into the aspirations of the people. 
That is what irresponsible action does; it bites into the aspirations of the people. It seems to me, therefore, that it is entirely justifiable to provide as a last resort some form of penalty in our system for action which has been euphemistically described as a deficient sense of public accountability'. If we lived in the best of all worlds I agree that all that would be needed would be some form of mutual agreement and this of course would apply throughout society, not just in the field of industrial relations. But we do not live in a perfect world and it is totally unrealistic to put forward propositions that pretend that we do. However obscure may be the rest of their industrial relations policies, the Opposition say there should be no provisions for penalties for breaches of awards under the Act. We say there must be. 
Let me illustrate the point in this way: Let us imagine two neighbours who over a period of years have both shown a regrettable propensity for throwing stones through each others windows. Eventually they get together and decide that this is a pretty stupid form of behaviour and make a pact that they will not do it in future. But then one neighbour says: 'This pact holds good only if we register it formally with a third party. What is more, if I do not want any penalties included for breaking windows then there can be no penalty'. Bearing in mind the previous history of relations between the two neighbours, it is a certainty that sooner or later one of them will get an overwhelming urge to start throwing stones again and equally inevitable that a window will be broken. We would then have the ridiculous situation of the stone thrower being able to say: 'You cannot make me pay for the damage. I did not agree to that being put into our agreement'. If there is no penalty for breaking a law then there is no point in having the law itself. This is a self evident truth and I have no doubt that it is clearly appreciated by the Australian community. If we want our conciliation and arbitration system to continue - there is certainly widespread support for it - then in the last resort there must be penalties for deliberately flouting its awards and judgments. 
The Opposition should remember that penalties apply both ways. How would they like it if there were no penalties for refusing admission to an arbitration inspector, for providing employment under sub-standard conditions and rates of pay, or for the dozens of other provisions which are all designed to protect the safety, health and working conditions of employees? I would have thought any political Party would have been concerned to protect the rights of employees against unscrupulous employers. This Government certainly does. The Opposition apparently does not. But in industrial law just as in all other branches of the law you cannot have a double standard. The application of the law must not discriminate. The alleged double standard we have heard so much about from the Opposition is a fallacy. Award wages are minimum, not maximum, wages and any employer who charges more than the community is prepared to pay for his goods or services will soon be out of business. 
In this speech I have deliberately dealt in broad principles and concepts rather than with matters of detail, since this legislation will either directly or indirectly affect all citizens of this country. To quote Shonfield again, 'it is no longer possible to accept the traditional notion of the individual work place as a separate and largely autonomous estate, where employers and employees are able to conduct their quarrels with little or no regard to the effects of what they do on other work places'. Australia is a country with a great future but that future will be realised only if all sections of the community are prepared to take a responsible attitude to their own particular job, and to realise that obtaining a temporary sectional advantage will eventually prove to be an illusion since it will have to be paid for by somebody in the end. 
This legislation is concerned primarily with people and the organisations to which they belong. It will work effectively only if the parties are prepared to make it work, since legislation can of itself never solve industrial relations problems. The legislation is the result of complex and detailed discussions extending over many months with all the parties concerned, leading to the Minister's statement on 7th December last year. For the past 5 months there has been an opportunity for all interested parties to make their views known to the Government - a situation almost unique in recent Australian political history. If anyone did not make their views known then it has been their fault. The opportunity was provided. Many people and organisations have availed themselves of this opportunity, and the fact that some of the original proposals have been amended is conclusive proof of the Government's goodwill and sincerity. This Bill represents the combined efforts of a great many people and deserves and will get the support of the community. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (Hindmarsh)I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
(10.11) - In answer first of all to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  I thought that the Minister for Labour and National Service had made it. clear that the Government had no intention of rushing about appointing non-legal members as  deputy  presidents of the Commission. The Government looks forward to the day when people of wider experience and people of experience other than merely in the law will be able to be appointed. The honourable member for Macarthur seemed to have some trouble understanding the phrase 'or an authority of a government'. This merely means one. of the statutory authorities of the Government of Australia. Without wishing to give any indication at all of future likely appointments - I do not make such a forecast at all - but merely for the purposes of illustration, I instance the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority and similar bodies. 
The honourable member discussed the field of tertiary qualifications and questioned the meaning of the phrase 'some other field of study'. One field of study which, I think, was quoted by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  earlier this evening was sociology. I imagine this would be a suitable tertiary qualification. No doubt other fields of study could be thought of which would have substantial relevance to the duties of a  deputy  president; sociology is merely one. I think it would be unwise to make the provision too specific because if we designated it completely and specifically - this, I think, refers also to what the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  was saying - and laid down in narrow terms what tertiary qualifications were required or, indeed, what was a 'person of high standing' we immediately would limit the avenues from which could be chosen people to be appointed to the position of  deputy president.  It is impossible to prescribe a narrow or precise definition of 'standing in the Australian community'. I suppose one could paraphrase this expression by saying a senior person - a man of good reputation in the community. 
No. The honourable member should know that under this legislation  deputy  presidents will have a retiring age of 65 years; so the honourable member's interjection is irrelevant. Once we narrowly define those eligible for appointment we immediately limit the field from which they are able to be chosen. The honourable member for Sturt mentioned the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission who was appointed by the Government. I point out that at the time of his appointment the  Chairman, Mr Vines,  made it clear that he was accepting the position on a temporary basis only. 
 I think that I can reassure the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I would like to point out that between subsections (b) and (c) of proposed new section 7 (1a.) as set out in clause 8 appears the word 'or'. I think the honourable membet foi Moreton has correctly interpreted proposed new sub-section (c), in that the last 3 lines refer to the tertiary qualifications mentioned in proposed new subsection (c). I come back to what the honourable member for Cunningham said. Proposed new sub-section (b) does not exclude those without the tertiary qualifications. It includes those with long experience in the fields that are mentioned in (b). So between (b) and (c) all classes of potential members are adequately covered. 
The honourable member for Moreton raised another question that I think is also relevant. It refers to the new procedures under which the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will operate within the formation of task forces within it under a presidential member, not less than one conciliation commissioner and not less than one arbitration commissioner. This brings the  deputy  presidents far more into the day to day field of industrial relations and the day to day work of the Commission, in addition, of course, to the work that they normally perform as members of a Full Bench. In this situation, in which  deputy  presidents are much more closely concerned with the day to day work of the Commission, I think it is desirable to have those with wider qualifications rather than perhaps those with merely the legal ones. 
There, are a couple of points I would like to make. I agree with one thing that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said: It is unfortunate that these salaries are being debated in this House in this way. I think it is extremely unfortunate that the salaries of men who will undertake a very difficult and responsible task in this community have to be the subject of so much acrimonious debate in this place. I deplore it. 
The question of inconsistency has been raised by many honourable members, including the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who just resumed his seat. He quoted from what he said when the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill was introduced last year. But, according to my reading of the Hansard report of that debate - I think it commences at page 4005 of last year's Hansard - not only did the Opposition not oppose that Bill, but it was passed at the second reading stage on the voices. There was not even a division. The Opposition did not oppose it then but is opposing it now. The Government did not oppose it on either occasion. So, inconsistency lies on only one side of this chamber. 
The subjects raised by honourable members who have spoken on the proposed new sections contained in clause 13 are covered by 3 main headings - certification of agreements, matters reserved for full bench hearings, and the public interest. Dealing first with the certification of agreements, this was raised by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I would like to point out that there is no difference between the certification of agreements proposed under this Bill and provided for under the Act because the certification has to be undertaken by a presidential bench. This is laid down in the Act in section 33, so there is no difference in that respect. On the question that it is wrong not to be able to include matters in an agreement which cannot be included in an award, there is no change from the existing section 31 of the Act. I should point out that there is not much point in giving the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the power to certify an agreement which contains matters that could not be included in an award because this is beyond its constitutional power. The aim of certifying an agreement is to give it the power of an award and if the agreement contains things which could not be included in an award constitutionally, the award obviously could not stand up to challenge. As to the matters to be referred to the full bench, there is not a great deal new in what is proposed here. The national wage cases are added to the list of matters that must be dealt with by the full bench. In recent years these cases have been heard by the full bench on reference and quite often by agreement. 
Public interest is the third heading I referred to and I will take it last. The national wage cases in the past have been dealt with by the full bench on reference, usually by agreement, and the new provisions in the Bill really formalise what is currently the de facto situation. The only equal pay case which has been heard by the full bench was heard on reference. On the question of annual leave, I think the honourable member for Hindmarsh and every honourable member would agree that annual leave is a major cost item in the economy. As long service leave has always been dealt with by a full bench it seems quite reasonable that annual leave should be in the same category. 
The minimum wage, the last item added to the list, has always been dealt with by a full bench and I would draw the attention of the Committee to the definition of 'basic wage* which is contained in section 33. (1.) (b). I ask the Committee to compare that definition with what is contained in proposed new section 31. (1.) (c). lt will be found that the definition of minimum wage", which is now to be dealt with by a full bench, is very similar to the old definition of 'basic wage' which was always dealt with by a full bench when that principle applied. The Commonwealth has always had the right of intervention in Full Bench matters and this will not be changed under the new legislation. 
I come to the final point which relates to the public interest. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  pointed out very cogently that this question doss extend beyond the parties to the immediate consultation or dispute which is in progress. I cannot put it better than the extract from Shonefield in his 'Note of Reservation to the Donovan Report' which I quoted in my speech last week during the debate on the second reading of this Bill. I think that this is so relevant that I should include it in the record of this debate. Shonefield said: 
It is no longer possible to accept the traditional notion of the individual work place as  a  separate and largely  automonous  estate where employers and employees are able to conduct their quarrels with little or no regard to the effects of what they do on other work places. 
I cannot put the concept of public interest in clearer words than that. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  accused the Government of putting the system into an economic strait-jacket. I think that if we got down to trying to define 'public interest' in strict and specific terms, we might be doing exactly what the honourable member said because the public interest will change according to circumstances. There will be different degrees of importance depending on such factors as the nature of the matter at issue and the political climate of the day. This inevitably must affect public interest. Of course, a particular case may have the effect of influencing or affecting the whole of industry, quite apart from the industry which is under discussion or negotiation. Because of the implication? of a particular industry, it may not be in the best interests of the public to extend this effect into fields other than those which originally had been part of the discussion. 
Another point which the honourable member for Moreton made and which is exemplified in the quotation I gave a moment ago is that, in certain circumstances, parties may reach an agreement which is highly satisfactory to them because the industry employer concerned may be in a position where he is able to pass on his costs without too must trouble. This clearly could be against the best interests of the economy as a whole. So, while I agree that it is impossible specifically to define the public interest, I think it is wise to leave it to the discretion of the commissioner and not end up, by defining it too strictly, with the sit..... '"n about which the honourable member for Cunningham expressed concern. The original concept of the public interest i" our conciliation and arbitration system was expounded by  Mr Justice  Isaacs in 1917. He made the point that the whole raison d'etre of the arbitration powers was not the mere decision between 2 contesting parties, although that of course was undoubtedly of importance because 'h purpose of the legislation was to resolve industrial disputes; the object of the Commission must always be that the community be served uninterruptedly and not be compelled, when threatened with deprivation or perhaps the essentials of existence, to look on helplessly while those whose function it is to supply them stop their work to quarrel. I think that the words of  Mr Justice  Isaacs are just as true today as when they were originally said. So, in relation to those  3  matters which are the principal causes of debate on proposed new sections 28 to  31  - certification of agreements, matters reserved for the full bench and public interest  -  1 maintain that the proposals of the Government are designed to improve the system and maintain the public interest of the community of Australia. 
 The Sydney Atlantean bus dispute could be dealt with by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because the drivers operating the buses came, under a federal award. Although the dispute was not interstate in character the drivers were covered by a federal award. This is where the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission can intervene, as it can in a dispute in a factory, for instance, if the people working in that factory are covered by a federal award. 
Yes. The trade and commerce powers enable the Commonwealth to intervene, for instance, in matters involving maritime unions, in other than industrial disputes. The Commonwealth can involve itself in industrial matters under the trade and commerce powers whereas the arbitration and conciliation powers relate purely to industrial disputes. 
This matter of public importance raised by the Opposition has provided an excellent opportunity to expose the essential fallacies and contradictions inherent in the Opposition's employment and industrial policies. According to the wording of the subject proposed for discussion, it seems that the Australian Labor Party apparently assumes that if no industry ever closed there would be no unemployment problem. What the Opposition has completely failed to realise is that in an expanding economy, such as Australia's, with many new industries and enterprises opening all the time, of course there will be constant shifts in labour demand. If this were not so, we would have a completely stagnant economy with very little prospect of improving employment opportunities. The ALP apparently refuses to acknowledge that many new industries and enterprises are starting and that others are expanding. 1 think it would be appropriate for the Opposition to give some thought to why some industries are either having to close or to shift their locations in recent months. It is only a week or so ago since in this place we had a major debate on the Australian system of conciliation and arbitration and the effect on our economy of wage increases and industrial troubles. It was pointed out by many speakers on this side of the House that we cannot expect employment opportunities to keep on increasing at an ever rising rate if w.ige and salary increases greatly exceed the rate of productivity gains. The inevitable result will be to price our products out of the market, and if this happens it will no longer pay to produce them. If it no longer pays to produce, then you will not get employment opportunities. This is where the Opposition refuses to face realities. 
You cannot go on pushing wage and salary claims beyond the economy's capacity to pay and still expect a continuation of unlimited employment opportunities. 
When you add to irresponsible wage demands - I emphasise the word 'irresponsible', because I am not talking about fair and just wage demands - the extra costs and loss of production caused by strikes, bans and other industrial measures, you compound the problem. Cannot the Opposition realise the fact that one of the basic underlying causes of the recent slow down in our rate of development, and consequently in our ability to provide employment, is a combination of these  2  factors? I suspect that the ALP knows this very well but is just not prepared to face up to it. lt is universally agreed that all forms of industry are going through a period of very rapid technical change and in the circumstances there are bound to be shifts in demand for one product or another. This does impose on employers an increasing obligation to make provision for the possibility of redundancy, and there is no doubt that many employers are conscious of their obligations, as is demonstrated by the fact that in the cases of Broken Hill South Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd in Perth, the companies concerned have made some provision for this sort of situation. But the Opposition apparently thinks that an industry could, and indeed should be prepared to keep on producing in areas or under conditions in which it is no longer economic to do so. In such circumstances it is inevitable that costs and eventually prices will rise. Yet the Opposition is constantly critical of rising prices. I point out to the Opposition that it just cannot have it both ways. 
We should start to assess the magnitude of the problem with which we are dealing today in the terms expressed in this matter of public importance. The numbers involved in retrenchments are comparatively small in relation to our total work force and amount to some hundreds in a labour force of over  5i  million. I do not say that retrenchments even of that number are to be brushed aside as socially insignificant. That is not so. They entail real hardships to some individuals and their families, and it is incumbent on industry and on governments - State and Federal - to ease these hardships to the maximum extent possible. But the fact remains that we are dealing with only small numbers, certainly much less than one-quarter of one per cent of the work force. 
So far as unemployment generally is concerned, I refer to the recent April release on employment statistics which showed a decline of  4,500  in unemployment. That is a small decline but it is very helpful. There was a decline in the unemployment rate on the seasonally adjusted figures from  1.80  per cent to  1.78  per cent. There was an improving trend in job vacancies, and a small increase in the level of overtime worked. Secondly, to the extent that some of the current unemployment problems are caused by the temporary slow down in economic growth, and especially manufacturing growth, the Government has already acted vigorously in taking decisive remedial measures. It will take some time for those measures to take full effect but I am confident that as the rate of economic growth picks up, the level of manufacturing employment will resume its more normal trend. Some of the difficulties being experienced by a few industries can be traced simply to the slow down in economic activity and cannot be attributed to any deep seated structural problem of a long term character. 
A third point is that some structural changes in employment are unavoidable in a complex growing economy such as ours. I mentioned that earlier. They are not a new phenomenon that has just emerged. They will occur even in the most buoyant economic conditions and they can occur for a multitude of reasons, such as technical change, rationalisation of plant operations, shifts in the pattern of world demand for our products, shifts in the structure of domestic expenditure, the exhaustion of economic reserves in particular mines, industrial upheavals and cost price pressures affecting the viability of a product and  1  have no doubt that many others could be mentioned as well. When such shifts take place some industries may be forced to cut back and some people may be retrenched. The problem will become serious when these retrenchments occur in relatively remote isolated areas, in areas offering a limited range of employment opportunities or in areas temporarily affected by adverse economic conditions. In such cases, the task is one of redeployment and retraining of labour. This is a task which the Government is facing up to, through the activities of the Commonwealth Employment Service and through its wide range of training schemes. At the same time the pattern of Commonwealth expenditure is influenced by the pattern of demand for labour. The non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme is an example of this. 
There may be a need for more to be done in this field and without in any way forecasting future Government policy or initiatives, I mention just 2 of them. There may be a need in the future for some increased assistance for decentralisation and perhaps some increased assistance to encourage the mobility of labour. It is not a settled but an ever fluid area of policy which is under constant Government examination. This Government will not shun its responsibilities but I think it should be emphasised that a good part of the responsibility for dealing with regional unemployment rests squarely with the State governments concerned. 
Another point to be made in connection with this matter is that while there are undoubtedly retrenchments occurring here and there in the economy, it is equally true that some employers are at the same time adding to their work force. For example, not many people might be aware that within the last couple of months GMH recruited an additional 400 people to its Port Melbourne plant work force. Other examples of this sort could be quoted. 
The final point - and I emphasise it again - is that in many cases the shut downs of particular plants could have been avoided if they had not been faced with exorbitant cost pressures and industrial unrest. Instead of presenting matters of this sort to this Parliament, the Opposition should be doing all it can to exercise moderation on trade union leaders, for the brutal fact is that the root cause of the present economic troubles we face is to be found in excessive wage increases of the order of 12 per cent to 13 per cent as against a normal productivity growth of only 2 per cent. Structural problems have always been evident to some extent in Australia, although they are much less serious here than in most overseas countries. As in the past, this Government will be ready at all times to cope with problems as they arise. 
 The basic philosophy behind the amendments that have been moved is a simple one. The Government believes it is important that new Part VIIIA of the Act which deals with amalgamations of organisations should begin to operate as soon as possible. Honourable members opposite appear to believe that the amendments now being considered are aimed at inhibiting or preventing union amalgamation. I would like to make it quite clear to the Committee that these provisions are designed specifically to ensure that the control of organisations remains with the rank and file members of those organisations. Part VIIIA constitutes a new code as to what is required of organisations seeking to amalgamate and it is clear and specific in its detail. For the first time, it presents to organisations a set of provisions dealing specifically with amalgamation and, therefore, the Government believes that it should operate as soon as possible. The old provisions should not be continued, save for a limited time during an interim period. 
I would like to make clear to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  that the amendment is not designed to interfere with the projected amalgamation of the various metal trade unions. If the honourable member reads clause 68 of the Bill carefully, he will find that that is made abundantly clear. That clause provides that the new Part dealing with the amalgamation of organisations is not to apply in relation to an amalgam as to which, before the commencement of clause 68, certain applications had been made to the registrar and a valid request for deregistration had been lodged with him under the principal Act. As to the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and the applications for deregistration by the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and by the Sheet Metal Workers Union, the Registrar signed the instruments of deregistration on 30th May, and deregistration will operate 3 months from then, that is on 30th August 1972. The objections to the deregistration were withdrawn when the Registrar had the matter before him on 29th May. 
Turning now to amendment No. 7, to which I think the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  specifically referred, this amendment is an amalgam of the amendments brought into the Senate not only by the Australian Democratic Labor Party but also by the Opposition and accepted by the Government. It proposes that a new subsection be added to section 158k which forms part of the new Part VIIIa which deals with amalgamations. The purpose of this amendment is to allow some flexibility as to the holding of ballots in connection with amalgamations, where a small body is to amalgamate with a large one. Part of the amalgamation processes provided for by the Bill requires all organisations involved in the proposed amalgamation to hold a ballot of their members, but the amendment recognises that it would be unsatisfactory, for example, if where a relatively small organisation was proposing to amalgamate with a large one, the latter should be required to have a ballot of its members. 
Therefore, the amendment provides that where an organisation proposes to deregister and, by amalgamation agreement, have its members absorbed into an existing organisation, which would be the host body in an amalgamation, there need not be a ballot of the members in the host organisation if the total number of members in the deregistering organisation or organisations complies with the formula set out in the amendment. Under the amendment the host body would be required to seek from the Registrar an exemption from the ballot provisions, and the Registrar would be given a discretion not to grant an exemption if he considered there were special circumstances which could cause him not to grant it. There would, however, be certain limita tions, as set out in the amendment, on the circumstances in which an exemption could be granted. That is a brief explanation of why the Government has proposed these 2 amendments. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mr  Corbett) - I call the honourable member for Swan. 
Motion (by  Mr  Giles) proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
Question put. 
 On many occasions in this Parliament and outside it the Australian Labor Party has demonstrated that there is little relationship between what it declares to be its aims and what it actually does or what it supports. No issue demonstrates this more clearly than the issue that we are debating tonight. We have the extraordinary spectacle of the Opposition bringing forward this matter of public importance and criticising the Government for the level of unemployment in Australia when the actions and policies of the Opposition itself are a significant contributory factor to the present undesirably high level of unemployment. Here is a classic example of what I mentioned a moment ago - the conflict between what the ALP says and the results of its policies. The Government has made it clear that it regards the present level of unemployment as too high and it has taken a series of positive measures to correct this situation. It is ridiculous for the Opposition to suggest that the Government is complacent in its attitude to unemployment. If it was it would not have done all the things that in fact it has done. There is no hint of complacency in such measures as directly increasing public sector spending, in stimulating private spending by reducing taxation and restoring the investment allowance or increasing pensions and unemployment benefits. Now, of course, we have before us last night's Budget which was designed specifically to restore confidence in the economy - which undoubtedly it will do - and to provide new incentives for business and for private citizens to increase productivity and the performance of the national economy. These are not the actions of a complacent government. 
Let us now contrast all these positive steps with what the Opposition has said and done. One of the major factors in the present economic situation is some lack of confidence in business. This was spelt out by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech last night. But everything that Opposition members have done has added to this lack of confidence. One would have thought that a political party which claims to represent Australian workers would want to help to create an atmosphere which would result in a high level of business confidence and activity leading directly to more jobs and greater opportunities for the Australian people. In fact the Australian Labor Party has done the direct opposite. For some extraordinary reason it seems determined to do its best to undermine confidence in the economy and this debate tonight is another example of its tactics. 
In considering the question of unemployment in Australia we have to take into account the present level in relation to past performance and in relation to other countries in a similar stage of development. We also must take into account the rate of wage and salary rises in relation to productivity increases, the rate of price rises, and the share of national income represented by profits and wages respectively. The issue of standard working hours is highly relevant also. These are the factors which any employer or potential employer has to consider when making a decision to expand his enterprise or to start a new one. While the present unemployment rate of 2 per cent, seasonally adjusted, is too high and we are determined to reduce it, it should be remembered that this figure is only about 0.5 per cent above our long term average. Furthermore, the figure of 2 per cent is much lower, as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  pointed out, than most other countries have been able to achieve. Until about 18 months ago Australia also had been more successful than most other countries in containing inflation. As everyone knows, the rate of Inflation has Increased dangerously in the last 18 months. 
There is one factor which has been of over-riding importance in this increase: It is that wages and salaries rose by over 12 per cent during the period when productivity rose by 2 per cent. In these circumstances it is inevitable that there will be inflation; not only that, it is inevitable that businessmen will he understandably cautious in their investment policies. What firm is likely to make major investment decisions when it faces the possibility of being unable to get a return on its capital? Despite the constantly reiterated allegations of the Australian Labor Party, price rises have not kept pace with labour costs. Consumer prices increased by 6.1 per cent in the year to the June quarter 1972, the largest increase since June 1956, but wages and salaries increased by a staggering 13.3 per cent in the year to March 1972. Over the last 3 years ending in March wages and salaries increased by 44 per cent whereas gross profits of companies increased by only 25 per cent, and total gross national product at factor cost increased by 34 per cent. Nor have profits been taking a greater share of our national income. In fact the proportion of national income represented by profits fell during the last few years, and that represented by wages and salaries rose. 
The Government had demonstrated its awareness of the importance of these factors by stressing the need for restraint in wage claims and in price increases. It has argued the case of public interest before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission whenever it has had the opportunity to do so. This is yet another example of the Government's concern for the employment situation in this country. We recognise the crucial importance of maintaining Australia's ability to compete on world markets and of the Government's responsibility to enable our citizens to share in rising living standards. Neither of these objectives can be achieved if business cannot operate profitably. If business cannot operate profitably the demand for labour will decrease and unemployment will increase. 
The increasing incidence of industrial unrest also has significantly affected employment opportunities. Nothing illustrates this more dramatically than the case quoted by the Minister yesterday of the Riverstone meatworks which was closed following 168 industrial stoppages during the last 7 months. Nearly 700 workers lost their jobs. As a direct result of this irresponsible industrial action these men and their families face difficulties, and quite possibly hardships. It is a most unfortunate example of the ultimate effect on employment of repeated strike action. The lessons are obvious and I hope they will be learned. 

 Mr Speaker, the Government is conscious of the fact that we live in a time of rapidly changing technology and that Australia will have to keep up with the world because the world will not slow down for us. Our industry, and therefore our work force, must be prepared and able to keep pace. In fact in future it probably will be rather the exception than the rule for men or women to spend all their working lifetime at one job. We will need a flexible and adaptable work force able to learn new skills in order to take advantage of new job opportunities. 
In recognition of these future requirements the Government last year instituted the training scheme for workers displaced by technological change. In the Budget the Treasurer announced that 2 new schemes will be introduced, one for workers made redundant and the other to enable persons with a history of unemployment to acquire job skills which are in demand. These are further evidences of the constructive and imaginative approach of this Government in the employment policy field. They have been introduced to deal specifically with the problems mentioned by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean). 
Finally I draw the attention of the House to an extract from the speech made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he introduced the last British Budget. He said: 
If particular groups insist on pricing themselves out of jobs and the nation out of business, no government can secure full employment. 
That comment is just as valid for us as it was for the United Kingdom and the Opposition would be well advised to recognise its implications and to use its in flue nev to ensure that the message is clearly understood by the industrial wing of the Australian Labor Party. 
In the  10  minutes available to me obviously 1 cannot cover all the points raised by the  2  honourable members who have spoken in this debate since the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  made his contribution. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  referred to the way in which the national service scheme affects people such as the sons of dairy farmers. The first point I would like to make in reply is that given the need for a national service scheme there must be the universal application of liability. I am sure that the honourable member is not suggesting, given the need for the scheme, that that principle should not apply. I point out to him that a number of courses of action are open to the people who feel that they have been severely disadvantaged and are suffering exceptional hardship in circumstances such as those outlined by the honourable member in respect of the sons of dairy farmers. The first alternative to full time national service in the Regular Army is service in the Citizen Military Forces. Service can be of  2  kinds, the first of which involves an annual camp and weekend parades. Alternatively young men living more than  25  miles from a CMF unit - which often happens in country areas - may attend special units involving one annual camp of approximately  33  days duration. In addition, a claim for deferment can be made on the grounds of exceptional hardship. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt also raised the question of the return of apprentices from national service to their employment. I remind him that the National Service Act imposes on employers an obligation to re-employ such apprentices after national service in a way that does not disadvantage them. I agree with the emphasis that the honourable member placed on apprenticeship. The estimates we are now discussing contain details of the new Government proposals to provide subsidies to employers to encourage them to employ first year apprentices. A double rate of subsidy is payable to employers in country areas to encourage the maximum number of young people in country areas to become skilled tradesmen. 
The honourable member also referred to the lack of training on completion of national service, but all national servicemen are eligible for the national service vocational training scheme. Many thousands have taken advantage of the opportunities available to them under the scheme, including apprentices who may wish to gain higher qualifications. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  made the sort of speech we have come to expect from him. He alleged that certain figures were suppressed - I think that is the word he used - or cooked by the Commonwealth Statistician and not included in recent reports. I remind the honourable member that his allegations caused great concern at the time to the very senior public servants involved. The allegations were quite specifically denied by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who is responsible for the administration of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
The honourable member for Sturt also raised the question of the salaries of commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I am rather surprised that the honourable member raised that subject because the Australian Labor Party attitude to it caused very great antagonism towards the Labor Party from Public Service organisations. He referred to long term unemployment and the mental attitude of some people with a long history of unemployment because of the difficulties they face in getting employment. I agree that this is a problem, and the Government also agrees, lt is precisely because of the problem that the Government has introduced the general employment retraining scheme, provided for in the estimates we are now debating, with subsidies to be paid to employers who employ people with a history of long periods of unemployment. 
I agree that it is a problem. The very fact that we have done something about it proves that the Government recognises the problem. I point out for the honourable member's benefit that although the scheme has been in operation for only a matter of weeks people are already in training in subsidised employment under the scheme. 
In the few minutes left to me I would like to speak about the wider responsibilities of the Department of Labour and National Service because some people regard the Department as being responsible merely for running the Commonwealth Employment Service and the national service scheme. Important as those aspects are they are only part of a very much wider responsibility. The function of the Department extends far beyond the provision of employment officers throughout the country and I would like briefly to discuss some of its other duties. 
One of the most important policy responsibilities of the Department is to encourage the development of the work force in Australia so that, most importantly, the full potential of each individual may be achieved. Also, so that Australia is enabled to maintain its position as an industrialised nation in an international producing and trading environment which is becoming increasingly competitive and sophisticated. These objectives are really the basis of the work of the Department. Our industrial relations, employment and training policies are all directed towards that end. The attitude of the various sections of the community to these issues will in turn either facilitate or hinder the achievement of our aims. A responsible and sensible approach to wage demands and prices charged for goods and services will benefit everybody. The irresponsible actions of sectional groups may show some short term advantages to a few but only at the expense of the many. Policies of full employment cannot succeed if irresponsibility becomes the norm rather than the exception. 
One ot the particular responsibilities of the Department is the administration of training schemes for industry and commerce. Over a period of years the Government has steadily extended training opportunities for workers and management in Australia. The schemes now cover a wide range of people and have been constantly expanded and updated to meet emerging and changing needs. We can now see the results of these imaginative programmes. A series of schemes directed towards all levels of industry and commerce is available. There are now comprehensive courses to train training officers and a subsidised scheme to encourage industry organisations to employ manpower development officers. This is where, training must start, because the principle must have management backing if it is to succeed. Training should be part of the management function and should include the training of management itself. First class material is prepared by the Department on training for supervisors - this is a most significant area of training need - material which is capable of being adapted to the requirements of individual companies. The material provided by the Department is available free of charge. Training within industry programmes for supervisors are being redeveloped and will be available, again without charge, from the Department. Schemes provided by other approved non-profit organisations will be subsidised. 
There are training schemes for Aborigines, for national servicemen to whom I referred a moment ago, for those displaced owing to redundancy or replaced by technological change, for women wishing to re-enter the work force, and there is training provided under the rural reconstruction scheme. In the estimates provision is made for new initiatives, for schemes to include those with a history of long periods of unemployment who are worrying the honourable member for Sturt, for a greatly improved and expanded programme of subsidies to employers of first year apprentices which I included in my remarks when replying to the honourable member for Leichhardt. By our encouragement of double incentives to employers of apprentices in country areas we are providing opportunities to young men and women who would otherwise have to leave the country to seek employment. This is all part of the Government's stated determination to bring about a better distribution of population throughout Australia. These are just some of the aspects of the work of the Department. Even from the brief description I have been able to give it will be apparent that we are working steadily towards creating the widest possible range of opportunities for all Australian citizens, young and not so young, male and female, to enable them to develop their talents to the full, to their own social and material benefit and that of the nation as a whole. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Housing 
Proposed expenditure, $7,989,000. 
This legislation ls the latest of several major steps taken by the Government during the last year or so on behalf of the wool industry.  Major initiatives  have been required because this period has been amongst the most difficult ever experienced by the industry. There have been difficult times before but they have been different, because this time farmers saw prosperity and indeed relative affluence around them while they - wool growers in particular - were not sharing in this general rise in prosperity. In fact they have been the only section of the community to suffer a decline in their income and living standards in recent years. This has been reflected in country areas and the rural economy generally. There has been very real hardship in many individual cases. 
This was the situation when the Australian Woo] Commission was established. Prices had fallen disastrously low due to a combination of factors, principally a world textile recession and a price cutting war amongst synthetic manufacturers. The original intention was that the Commission would operate on a potholing basis, evening out severe irregularities in the market. A further deterioration in prices led to a decision to put a floor under the market, but an extremely low floor working out at around 30c per lb national average. The Commission put the floor under the mar ket. The Government backed the Commission. In the circumstances prevailing at the time this was a brave decision. It may be argued that fortune favoured the brave, but the fact remains that subsequent events have demonstrated that it was also a correct decision. There is no certain way of determining what would have happened without the Wool Commission, but my personal opinion is that there was a very real danger of the market collapsing completely. We would then have had the situation of processors and manufacturers moving out of wool because they believed it had no future, and growers doing the same. In the incredibly short space of a few months wool is in danger now for completely opposite reasons. Most people connected with the industry feel that there is a real chance of wool pricing itself out of the market. 
I think there are a number of lessons to be learned from our experience of last year. The first is that wool's prosperity is inevitably tied to a confident and buoyant world trading situation, including currency stability and particularly the demand for textiles. The second - perhaps this is of more immediate importance in considering this legislation - is that the man has not yet been born who can with confidence and accuracy predict the future trend in fashion preference and consequently the demand and price for wool. This is very relevant to this legislation, because we need to look at the Opposition's policy for primary products. One of the main planks in its primary industry policy is:   . . appropriate measures to adjust the levels of farm production in balance with realistic domestic and overseas market demands in order to provide satisfactory prices to farmers and consumers with the aim of establishing industry on an economic, self-supporting basis within a definable period. 
It reads very well. In fact, it almost rolls off the tongue. But let us analyse it, because it is highly relevant to the situation in the wool industry today. 
As to 'appropriate measures to adjust the level of farm production', who decides what the appropriate measures should be? Indeed, who decides whether measures are appropriate? Heaven help our primary producers if these decisions are to be made by the Australian Labor Party. A decision having been made as to what is appropriate, how about the next objective, 'the adjustment of levels of farm production'? Even assuming that by some miracle measures were found which were appropriate, even the Leader of the Opposition would be hard put to persuade the Almighty that He should co-operate by providing exactly the correct weather pattern over a country extending for 3 million square miles. Primary production throughout Australia will have to fit in with the decision arrived at by the Australian Labor Party. But that is not enough. Our production has to 'balance with realistic domestic and overseas market demands'. At this point I am forced to the conclusion that the policy was written by people completely divorced from reality because it is assumed that the overseas countries will also have the weather decided for them by the ALP. Consumers will have their tastes and preferences in fashion controlled by this omniscient body of Solomons. It is about time, to coin a phrase, that the Australian farmers were made aware of what would be in store for them if the Opposition ever gained power in this country. 
My main purpose in spending some time in discussing the policy of the Labor Party is to relate it to the present wool situation. In February of this year  Mr Vines,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission, a man for whom I have very high respect and who would probably know as much about the world wool market situation as anyone, said that we could look forward to a price of around 40c per lb for greasy wool in the foreseeable future. He made the assessment with the best advice available to him from all over the world. I freely admit that having studied the evidence that was available I agreed with his assessment. Yet within a few months we have the almost unbelieveable spectacle of wool averaging over 100c per lb. So this new organisation, this corporation, is coming into being at a time when wool is facing difficulties, but difficulties of a completely different kind from those of a few months ago. 
The main problem is that at the present level of wool prices, textile processors and manufacturers may substitute synthetics for wool in their production. Another fact which cannot be disregarded is the wide spread fluctuations in the price of woo], which make it more difficult for users to plan their purchases with any degree of certainty. However, despite this aspect of wool prices, there is no doubt that there is a new spirit of confidence and optimism in wool growing areas. Even one wool clip at present prices would be a tremendous help to thousands of hard pressed growers and to country towns and business men. In addition we have been provided with a wonderful opportunity to do something of real long term benefit to the industry, without the pressures of the emotional atmosphere inevitable in a time of disastrously low prices. 
This legislation will result in far reaching changes in the structure of the wool industry organisations and in the methods of handling and marketing the wool clip; and it is not before time. It has been demonstrated that without any doubt substantial savings are possible in how we handle and sell our wool. Further, there is strong evidence to suggest that higher prices are. obtainable by selling methods other than those of the traditional open auction system. 
We have to examine this legislation to see whether it will facilitate and encourage the changes that have been shown as being both practicable and desirable. In the main, the legislation follows the guidelines contained in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  No. 64 of 1972. However, there is one omission which concerns me, and that is that there is no reference in the legislation, as there was in the Prime Minister's statement, to 'the desire of the Government to ensure the retention in the marketing system of efficient commercial innovators where consistent with the overall objective of efficient marketing'. 
As a wool grower, I measure the efficiency of the marketing system by the net return I get for my wool. This really is the reason behind the whole legislation. The amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission, our involvement in wool research and promotion, and improvements in wool handling techniques all have as the final objective a better return to wool growers. Therefore this legislation should be judged by the degree to which it is successful in achieving this objective. There is growing awareness in the industry that profound changes are taking place in the way that wool is prepared for sale and the way it is sold. These changes are built around the objective measurement of wool, which incidentally I first advocated here over 5 years ago, and the subsequent sale by sample and description. 
These techniques are now well beyond the experimental stage and have been proved in practice by the Australian Objective Measurement Project. We await the report of that committee with keen anticipation. The techniques has also been proved by the independent organisation, Economic Wool Producers. It is already clear that the widespread adoption of the sale of wool by sample and description will render obsolete a great deal of existing investment in the industry. I refer in particular to the great number of large welllighted display stores, many of them built on valuable sites. The overhead costs involved in maintaining and running such establishments have become built into the cost of selling wool and these costs are ultimately borne by the grower. It would be nothing short of a tragedy if the costs were to become a permanent burden on the grower, right at a time when it has been demonstrated that they can be greatly reduced, if not eliminated. Unless every possible encouragement is given to stimulate innovation there is obviously a danger that the status quo will continue. After all, no organisation will make a lot of its investment redundant if it does not have to do so. So one reason I have for concern is that no mention is made of the Government's desire to ensure retention of efficient commercial innovators in our wool marketing system. If innovation is not actively encouraged it will be inevitable that there will be a tendency to retain our existing outmoded and unnecessarily costly system. 1 therefore ask the Minister to give the firmest assurance that the Government stands by the Prime Minister's statement No. 64 of 1972 which indicates a desire to retain commercial innovators in wool marketing. Further, 1 would like an assurance that the Government has no intention of hindering or putting obstacles in the way of such organisations expanding their activities when it is in the interests of wool growers that they do so. 
In my opinion there is another cause for concern. I refer to the continual emphasis in the legislation on sale by auction. I do not think it is a coincidence that spokesmen or organisations who are currently strongly pressing for retention of the auction system as the main method of selling wool are all heavily involved in it. Obviously there is nothing sinister or surprising about that. It is perfectly natural that they should take that stand, but it does not automatically make the present auction system the best way of selling wool. There is a great deal of statistical evidence to show that sale by sealed tender gets growers a better return. I do not want to go into all the details now. I know that the Minister is aware that some very interesting material on the subject is becoming available. I realise that arguments can be put forward against an expansion of private wool selling. For example, it is said that it is not possible to tell how much wool is being sold; it makes estimates of national clip sizes extremely difficult; no-one knows what is being paid for the wool, so permitting the market to be undercut; and that if a substantial proportion of the clip is sold privately, there will be no reliable price determining mechanism. 
None of those objections applies to sale by sealed tender. All buyers have full and free access to wool. The price received, the quantity and types sold and the amounts passed in are all published. Sales take place regularly and growers usually get their money quicker than through the auction system. As I stated earlier, evidence is growing that prices are better. In short, at the present stage of development it seems that sealed tender selling has many advantages over the open auction system. Therefore the second assurance I am seeking from the Minister is a firm undertaking that in no circumstances will sale by tender be disadvantaged or discriminated against in any way in relation to sale by auction, and that a clear distinction will be made between sale by tender and any other forms of selling which do not allow full and free access to wool. I do not suggest that sale by tender will ultimately turn out to be the best method of selling wool. Techniques are changing so rapidly that I would not be surprised to see other and better methods evolve. What is important is that no inhibitions or restrictions should be placed on it now, and no obstacles placed in the way of further change. 
The key to the future of wool will be the industry's ability to respond quickly to changing circumstances. In other words, there must be maximum flexibility. I feel sure that the Minister will be able to say that this is also the objective of the Government. The  chairman  and board members of the new Corporation face a formidable task of vital importance to all individual wool growers and to the Australian economy. It is imperative that we have the best men to do the job. I wish the Minister well in the formation of this Corporation and I look forward to the results of the Corporation's investigations into the whole question of wool marketing. There are many other issues to which I could refer, but they are best left until the Corporation makes its report. The debate on the report should be one of the most interesting' debates in the next Parliament after the Government is returned on 2nd December. 
I should like to offer my thanks to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for his very full explanation of the Government's intention as to how this legislation will operate. The areas of concern which I mentioned earlier today during my speech in the second reading debate, I assured him, have been resolved completely. Further, I congratulate him on the successful completion of his long campaign to get this complex and important legislation into this Parliament. I should like to refer briefly to the Opposition amendment to clause 38(1.) (a). My name was raised in relation to this by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  We have just had an unequivocal assurance from the Minister that the support of the Corporation will be continued for methods of selling wool which allow full access to the wool. The Minister's assurance is good enough for me. 
The Australian Labor Party really is asking in this amendment for a flexible reserve price on private buying. It seems to me that there are 2 means by which such a scheme could operate. The first is where all wool which was sold privately went back to the Commission for valuation and assessment. Obviously this would affect the principal benefit which is claimed for private buying, namely, a saving of cost by simplification of procedures and a reduction of the time a grower spends without his money. Whatever one may think of the merits or otherwise of private buying - I put forward some of the arguments used against it earlier in the day - this amendment would merely be a guaranteed way of increasing costs at a time when everybody, including the Opposition, is talking about the need to reduce costs. The only other way I can see such a flexible reserve price scheme operating for private buying would be for the reserve price to be made up to the grower if the price paid by the private buyer was below the guaranteed reserve. What prospects this opens up. It would not take the farmer and the private buyer long to realise that they could do a deal. Let us take an extreme example where the price paid to the grower by the private buyer was 20c per lb for wool which at the time had a market value of 30c per lb and the guaranteed reserve for that type of wool at that time was 40c per lb. As far as I can see the Opposition's amendment will transfer the liability for an amount equal to 10c per lb from the buyer to the Australian taxpayer. It is one thing to guarantee a reserve price to the wool grower but it is quite another to subsidise overseas buyers and users of wool. This would be the result of the Opposition amendment. For these reasons I reject it. 
 The amendment to the Bill moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  is based on a misconception of what the legislation is all about, what it is designed to do. This is shown by the reference in the amendment to leaving the 'provision of this service to the chance interest of employers and local authorities'. The legislation is not directed to employers. A child care centre run by an employer or factory would not be necessarily ineligible for assistance under this legislation, but the terms of the legislation make it unlikely that any employers in fact would be prepared to comply with the criteria applying to eligibility for assistance. In the first place a trust would have to be set up to run the child care centre. In the second place the child care centre would have to be opened to children other than those of employees at the factory. The third criterion, of course, is that it would have to grant priority of entry to those children in special need, 'special need' being defined in the Bill. So the criticism of the legislation on the ground that it is directed towards the chance interest of employees is based on a fundamental misconception of it. 
The second main point made by the honourable member for Fremantle was that the Commonwealth Government should act as an initiating force. I think that was the expression he used. This is of course quite consistent with the Opposition's policy for a schools commission. Indeed, I believe that part of its policy is for a pre-school commission as well. The Government takes the view that we aim to maintain the maximum amount of local interest, community interest and interest of organisations which in many cases have dedicated themselves to this form of child care. We aim to help those who are prepared to help themselves. It is not our policy to set up a large, purely government run series of institutions for child care.. That is a basic matter of difference in philosophy between us on this side of the House and the Opposition. 
So the amendments proposed by the Opposition are not acceptable to the Government and indeed are not validly related to the intent of the legislation itself. The provision of child day care, centres of an approved standard is a major Government initiative, and the Government is prepared to allocate significant funds to meet this end. It is envisaged that in the first 3 years of this scheme at least $23m will be expended on capital and recurrent grants, and at least another Sim will be expended on grants for the purpose of research and evaluation in the area of child care. Probably a greater proportion of money is devoted to research in this field than under any other legislation brought down by this Government. This is a new field. Research will be needed, and we. hope that this country will become a leader in research in this area. 
Through its initiative the Government will solve a serious community problem which relates to the needs of today's community and which is reflected in the rising proportion of married women in the work force. The proposed scheme is concerned with the welfare of children, with particular emphasis on the welfare of those children in special need of alternative care while their parents are working, sick or otherwise unable to care for them. As the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  said in the second reading speech, the Bill provides a number of grants in the child care area. There are 5 types. Two are recurrent, 2 are nonrecurrent capital-type grants, and the final type consists of research grants, which I mentioned a moment ago. The recurrent grants are towards the salaries of staff and in respect of children in special need. The non-recurrent capital grants are to cover the cost of buildings and land and the purchase and installation of equipment. 
I reiterate the major features of thew&gt;. various grants. The recurrent grants side of the scheme provides for recurrent grants of 2 types to be paid to eligible organisations operating child care centres on a non-profit basis and meeting the other conditions of the grant. One type of recurrent grant is in respect of the employment of certain qualified staff in child care centres. The grant would equal half the salaries payable to these staff, and the intention of the grant is to encourage the employment of such staff in specified numbers in the centres. The staff concerned are qualified preschool teachers and qualified nurses as defined in the Bill. 
The other type of recurrent grant is in respect of children in special need of such care, such as children of single parents, of migrants in the early settlement stages, of parents eligible for assistance under the subsidised health benefits scheme and of parents who are sick or incapacitated. The grant will be calculated according to the number of hours the children in special need are cared for in the centres. The purpose of the grant is to provide the organisation operating the centre with funds with which the organisation can offer reduced fees to parents in financial need. The capital grants side of the scheme provides for unmatched capital grants to be paid direct to eligible organisations for, firstly, the purchase, erection, extension or alteration of buildings, including necessary fixtures and land cost, for use as a child care centre; and. secondly, the purchase and installation of equipment for use in child care centres. The purpose of capital grants is to ensure that sufficient child care facilities of good quality are available where they are needed most. 
The research grants side of the scheme provides for the grant to be made to any person for the purposes of research in child care and related matters and for the initiation and development of methods of child care. Honourable members will recall that in the Minister's second reading speech he outlined the conditions that would attach to capital and recurrent grants. These conditions go to the heart of the Government's intentions in this scheme. The main conditions of grant are that centres must be operated on a non-profit basis; that centres must accept applications for the enrolment of children in special need in priority to other children; and that centres should be operated for sufficient hours and in such a way as to meet the needs for child day care in the community in which they are situated. 
I wish to say a concluding word about the organisations that are eligible to receive assistance. With respect to recurrent grants and capital grants for equipment, organisations eligible to receive assistance are nonprofit organisations as determined by the Minister - other than Commonwealth or State controlled bodies - local governing bodies; and trustees of charitable or benevolent trusts. To be eligible to receive a capital grant in respect of land, buildings or improvements, the organisation must also be a corporation in which, or trustees in whom, there is vested or is to be vested the land associated with the subject of the application for grant. Finally, this scheme will provide real practical assistance and be of benefit at several levels. Firstly, for children being placed in child care centres there is the direct advantage of better quality care and better facilities. It is hoped that the very introduction of the Government's scheme will contribute significantly to the upgrading of standards generally in the child care area. Secondly, for parents to whom child care fees are a hardship there will be direct financial relief in that reduced fees will apply where they place their children in the assisted centres. Thirdly, for the community as a whole there will be an extension and upgrading of an invaluable community service supportive of the family and the community generally. 
It is the Government's intention to establish the Child Care Standards Committee referred to in the legislation as soon  as possible after the legislation is passed by this Parliament. This will enable full consideration to be given to projects seeking assistance, after which the Committee will make recommendations to the Minister as to which projects it considers merit support. The recurrent grants under the scheme will be payable from the date of royal assent and by early next year the capital grants side of the legislation is expected to be in full operation. This legislation breaks new ground. It is an exciting initiative, providing yet another example of the Government's determination to meet emerging community needs in a rapidly changing society. I emphasise again that it is directed towards the welfare of children, especially those who face disabilities which could affect their full development as individuals. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The 18 amendments moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  really are of 2 kinds. The first kind are those which are related to the centralist concept, that is, that the Commonwealth Government virtually should set up a socialised form of child care centres. I dealt with that argument during my remarks following the speech of the honourable member for Fremantle at the second reading stage. This Government, of course, rejects that concept. The ninth amendment, which of course is consequential upon that, is the amendment which refers to the salaries or wages as determined by the Public Service Board. Under the legislation which has been brought forward by the Government the salaries of the people who will run the child care centres will not be paid by the Commonwealth and of course the Public Service Board in that sense is irrelevant; but is not irrelevant to the centralist concept put forward by the honourable member for Fremantle. That is one type of amendment contained in the 18 amendments moved by the Opposition. 
The other type of amendments contain, if I may say so to the honourable member, many good ideas. I point out to the honourable member that although he has stated that in his opinion he would like to have them specifically spelt out in the legislation many of his suggestions can be accepted and put into practice without amendment to the Bill. I can assure the honourable member that the suggestions he has made in this second type of amendment will be brought to the attention of the Minister and they will be given careful attention during the setting up of the Child Care Standards Committee. 1 am sure that when this scheme gets into operation and the honourable member sees the members who will be appointed to that Committee many of the fears which he voiced at the Committee stage will be allayed. 
 I wish to answer a few points raised by various speakers in the debate. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said that the scheme had been left to chance and that in areas of great need it could be that there would be no applicants or organisations willing to run the child care centres. I can assure the honourable member that there is no sign of any lack of applications. It will be a considerable job to assess the priorities but there is no problem in getting applications from organisations. The honourable member also asked whether the scheme is a good idea anyway and whether it should be implemented. I can assure the honourable member that in the very substantial sum set aside for research precisely that sort of question will be considered when viewing alternative forms of child care. 
The honourable member for Barton also expressed some doubts about the wide powers of ministerial discretion. I remind him that this is an entirely new field and in that circumstance it is obviously wise to allow the maximum possible degree of flexibility. If rigid standards were laid down in the legislation it is almost certain that in an emergent field like this a straightjacket would be put around the legislation and there would be inhibitions placed on the introduction of changes which might come to be desirable. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  returned to the question of an annual report to the Parliament. I concede to him that his idea would be entirely consistent with his concept of a centrally controlled Commonwealth body to run such centres, but it is not appropriate in this instance. 
With all respect to the honourable member, this legislation is a different approach altogether. The honourable member knows the criteria for eligibility. In many instances the centres will be operated by local organisations which in no way can be compared to university councils or the councils of colleges of advanced education. In those circumstances an annual report would not be appropriate. It would not be appropriate to establish a situation in which an annual report was made to Parliament on just one of the many facets of the activities of the Department of Labor and National Service. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  made a valuable contribution. I am sure he did not mean that experts as such would not be acceptable on the Child Care Standards Committee. I think the honourable member was trying to say that certainly experts have a place, but let us have ordinary people as well on the Standards Committee. Do not let us have these bodies composed entirely of experts. Let us try to obtain a cross section of the community on them. I am sure that is what the honourable member is trying to get across. 
The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  raised the question of very young children. I am sure that everybody would agree that the best place for a very young child is with its mother. But the plain fact is that in many instances the lack of high standard child care is disadvantaging many young children. This legislation is designed not to take very young children away from their mothers but to provide a high standard of care for those who, for one reason or another, are denied that normal right of young children. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, since this is my first speech in the new Parliament, I ask you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  and his  Deputy  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  especially on their unanimous election by this House to their offices. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage*I most certainly will. 

Thank you. Before I make my contribution to this debate I should like to refer to something that was said by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  during his maiden speech. I am well aware that it is not usual to criticise an honourable member's maiden speech. After all, all of us in this House fully acknowledge that a maiden speech is quite an occasion. But as the honourable member himself did not follow all the conventions of a maiden speech I feel justified in making my criticism. The honourable member has a lot to learn about the working and role of the Parliament and I was therefore disappointed to hear him criticise the Opposition for using the forms of the House for quite legitimate purposes. The honourable member at this stage could not be expected to know that it has always been the tradition for governments of all complexions, when changes in the Standing Orders were projected, to refer such changes to the Standing Orders Committee on which all parties are represented. This Government chose not to do so on this occasion and that was the principle which we on this side. of the House were defending. We were protesting that the Government had thrown overboard the proper safeguards evolved through many years of parliamentary practice. 
I should like to speak on the broad concepts behind a social service program as seen by those of us on this side of the House. As will be seen as my speech progresses, our feelings are consistent with the motion moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  I think everybody would agree that a social service program is of increasing importance in Australia. In the first place, it represents and absorbs a very large proporiton of our national expenditure. In the second place, it exerts a correspondingly large influence in the daily lives of all of us. We on this side of the House do not necessarily oppose all the objectives which have been outlined by the Government. I am certain that there is a genuine desire amongst all members of this House to see a progressive improvement in the living conditions of the Australian population. It is quite natural and quite proper that, as this country becomes more affluent, all sections of the community should have some share in this affluence. So there is no argument, as I see it, on this broad principle. 
Where there will inevitably be sharp differences between the Opposition and the Government is on how these laudable objectives are achieved and this will show the basic differences between the two sides of politics in Australia. On the one hand, we have the socialist path as exemplified by this Government. I think there is a tendency by the Australian Labor Party to view this path through rose tinted spectacles. They think that it will be roses, roses all the way, that somehow the path will be shortened, that all the difficult bends and corners will be straightened out, and that all that is needed to achieve this is an all knowing, ail powerful Federal government taking over the responsibilities for spending what is, as the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  acknowledged, our money. Then, the way will be smooth and the objectives achieved more quickly and more easily. We on this side of the Parliament are dedicated to recognising the pre-eminence of the individual as opposed to the State, that is, that the State should be run for the benefit of the individual rather than the other way round. 
While recognising the responsibilities of government to make proper provision for those who are unable for some reason or other to make provision for themselves, we should try to ensure that such a situation existed for the minimum possible period and that policies should, where possible, be directed towards encouraging and enabling those disadvantaged sections of the community to become self-sufficient and an economic asset rather than an economic liability. In this respect I am thinking of such programs as rehabilitation, retraining and the like. This latter field was one in which I had a personal interest, being closely associated with the training activities of the Department of Labour and National Service, as it then was, during my period as Assistant Minister. 
Great strides have been made in recent years in our retraining programs, as the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  recognised during the debate last year on the then Government's training schemes for industry and commerce. However, we recognise that there will inevitably be some people who are unable to achieve the objective of self-sufficiency, even though they possess the will and the desire to attain it. Clearly, proper provision must be made for such people. But in making this provision, we on this side of the House are concerned that the methods used do not destroy the will and desire of those who, with encouragement and assistance, could lift themselves and their families from a position of being dependent on the rest of the community to a position where they are making a positive contribution to the economy. This, of course, is important from an economic point of view because no country or its citizens can expect to gain the full benefit of national growth if the growth itself is limited by having an unnecessarily large proportion of the population dependent upon others for their livelihood rather than making a contribution themselves. 
More important than the economic aspect are the human effects of policies which destroy initiative and the incentive to become self-sufficient with all that implies in the loss of self-respect. I concede that many of the policies which have these results are conceived with the best of motives. Those responsible for evolving them and putting them into practice usually have a very real concern to improve the living conditions of the disadvantaged sections of the community. That makes it even more tragic - that all too often the eventual result is the opposite of what they were trying to achieve. Other countries offer some tragic examples of what can happen as a result of well intentioned but unsuccessful social service legislation. I emphasise that I am not speaking of legislation designed to improve the lot of those who are genuinely unable to look after themselves. I am talking about legislation which has resulted in the creation of what might be termed a class of professional unemployed, that is, those who are mentally and physically able to work and for whom work is available but who choose to live on social service payments of one kind or another. 
There are well-documented examples of such cases, fortunately not many in this country. The great tragedy of this situation is that it breeds a mentality of acceptance not only in the adults but also in their children. It therefore has a perpetuating effect, and I can think of nothing more debilitating or humiliating to the people concerned, and nothing more dangerous to the future fabric of tha society of this country. Australia has been built on a great tradition of independence, self-reliance and hard work. These are the qualities which have enabled us to achieve our present level of development in such a short time. They are the qualities which will be required if we are to capitalise fully on the tremendous natural advantages and opportunities open to us. I have no doubt that these qualities are still present in full measure in Australia today. What we as a national Parliament have to do is ensure that they are inspired and utilised to the full. The ultimate tragedy would be that in our efforts to make what I describe as proper provision for those genuinely unable to maintain a decent and dignified place in this country, we should destroy the very qualities which have made it possible to make that provision. 
This side of the House will work in Opposition, as it did in Government, for the betterment of the old, the sick, the disabled and all other truly disadvantaged sections of the community, but never let us forget that the nation's capacity to help them and make proper provision for them is determined by how well the rest of us work, because if we provide needed finance or a needed service to someone who lacks it someone else has to earn the money to pay for it. There are 2 main consequences of this situation. The first is that for everyone who, as a result of these policies, is made better off someone else is inevitably worse off. It has been said many times, but I think it bears repeating, that in economics there is no such tiling as a free ride. I was very interested to hear the honourable member for Perth make specific reference to this a moment ago. For every benefit conferred, sometime somewhere somebody will have to pay the bill. The second thing is the opportunity cost that is involved. It is selfevident that if money is spent in one area it is not available to be spent anywhere else. Since no country is rich enough to fix all of its problems at one time, priorities have to be established. How well these priorities are allocated determines how well a country is governed. Of course the priorities will not be merely of a negative kind, that is, looking after those who have finished making or who are unable to make their contribution to the community. For example, the welfare and education of our children and the needs of young families must be of primary importance in establishing pur priorities. We must strive for equality in opportunity, but in trying to achieve it we must remember that we can never achieve equality of performance. 
History teaches us that many of the great advances in all fields of endeavour are made by that very small number of really exceptional people, exceptional in the sense that they possess gifts far beyond the average. No nation, least of all one with a small population, can afford to neglect these people since they exert an influence out of all proportion to their number. So in our justified striving for equality of opportunity we must be prepared to recognise excellence when we see it and to encourage its full development. If we lose sight of these basic principles we destroy our ability to do the things which can be done now and should be done in the future. These are the principles and standards by which we in the Opposition will judge the welfare legislation brought forward by the Government. Our attitude will be determined by how that legislation measures up to these standards. Ours will be a humane) progressive and responsible attitude which emphasises the right of freedom of choice and the preeminence of the individual over the State. We believe that this attitude reflects the views of a majority of Australians and that they will endorse it when they next .have the opportunity to express their opinion through the ballot box. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Considering the size of the recently announced increases in contributions to hospital and medical benefit funds and the impending rise in doctors' fees, can the Minister guarantee that a levy of 1.35 per cent on taxable income will be sufficient to finance the proposed health scheme? Will he confirm the Australian Labor Party's election undertaking that the maximum contribution for any family under the scheme will be limited to$1 35? Finally, will the recently announced increases in fund contributions enable the funds in Victoria to pay benefits to non-pensioner patients in nursing homes? 
In considering this Bill and more particularly clause 3 we have to ask ourselves what are the essential features of a democratic and equitable electoral system. I think most people would agree that the first requirement in any election is that the Party or Parties which get the majority of the votes should form the government. Let us see how this present system stands up to that criterion. The Minister for Services and Property quoted the results of several elections with the object of showing that although the Australian Labor Party vote had exceeded the Liberal-Country Party vote on more than one occasion this had not resulted in the formation of an ALP government. What he forgot to quote, of course, was the total percentage of votes from all the non-Labor parties. For example, I would not imagine that the Minister, despite his wide circle of friends, would include the Australian Democratic Labor Party amongst his and the Australian Labor Party's most fervent supporters. 
To get a true reflection of electoral opinion all non-Labor votes must be taken into account and only in 1954, as has been said on more than one occasion in this debate, under an electoral redistribution done by the Labor Government in 1948 has a situation arisen where the . majority of the votes cast did not result in that Party forming the government. A further confirmation of the equity of the present system can be found by comparing the percentage of votes cast with the percentage of seats won. At the last election, held in December last year under a system which this Government alleges was heavily biased against the ALP, the Labor Party got 49.9 per cent of the votes but won 53.6 per cent of the seats. So there is no question that the present system is not consistent with democratic principles. 
The present form of electoral distribution results in equity as between the various sections of the community. Taking New South Wales as an example, 17 extra-metropolitan seats averaged 51,475 formal votes whilst 28 metropolitan averaged 54,709. Remembering that Australia has a rapidly growing population, the question must be asked whether it would be possible to obtain anything fairer than that. The plain fact is that one vote one value is merely a catch cry. It is impossible to achieve in practice, even for one day let alone a period of years. The Government has used this emotional slogan to cover up the fact that the intended amendment to the Electoral Act is highly favourable to it. It is ridiculous to suppose that there is any other reason for the Government's proposal. 
What would be the results of a redistribution under this Bill, and more particularly clause 3? The first and foremost result would be reduced country representation. This Government came to office without the need to win country seats. Now country areas are starting to pay the price for that. It is astonishing to me that honourable members such as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  could support legislation which is totally opposed to the interests of their constituents. How are they going to explain away to their electors the fact that they supported and in fact helped, to draw up this legislation which specifically is designed to reduce the effectiveness of country representation? There is no doubt about the Government's intention. One has only to study the Minister's second reading speech to realise his total unconcern for the special problems faced by country members and their constituents. 
If that is so, then I wish the honourable member had more understanding of country problems. Another feature of the Government's proposal is that redistribution would be required at much more frequent intervals and all honourable members will be aware of the great practical difficulties associated with frequent redistributions. It would become impossible to have continuity of representation, whatever Party happens to be in power. Finally, what sort of country do we want in Australia? The answer to this question is critical because it will largely influence our thinking on what sort of government we have. I am not speaking of what Party or Parties comprise the government. I am speaking of what attitude we want our government to adopt. There can be no doubt what sort of government we would get under the Government's proposals. It would bc an increasingly metropolitan, city dominated government. It would inevitably become major city oriented. Not only that, it would be increasingly dominated by Melbourne and Sydney. 
I am informed that if this Bill becomes law approximately six-thirteenths of the members of this national Parliament will come from Sydney and Melbourne. What a mockery that makes of the Government's high sounding phrases about decentralisation and regional development? How can this Government expect a properly representative voice in this the Australian Parliament if almost half the members come from  2  cities? I do not think that is the sort of Parliament the Australian people want or indeed what the people of Melbourne and Sydney would want. The inhabitants of the major cities are becoming well aware of the rapidly growing problems of pollution, traffic congestion and other difficulties associated with a huge modern metropolis. There is a new determination amongst the Australian people to make better use of our unique natural advantages. But these aspirations would never be fulfilled if we tie ourselves to a parliamentary system deliberately designed to give an overwhelming weighting of numbers to our major capital cities. 
It is no coincidence that we now have before this House a Bill entitled the Cities Commission Bill which seeks to amend the Act which established the National Urban and Regional Development Authority and to change the name of that body to the Cities Commission. I will at least give the Government this: It is consistent. This demonstrates with absolute clarity but probably, I grant, unintentionally the basic philosophy of the Government as compared to that of the Opposition. The ALP is a city based Party and it is determined to try to ensure that the national Parliament will suffer from the same disadvantage. Labor claimed to be interested in decentralisation but it promptly changed the name of the authority charged with the responsibility of creating true decentralisation in Australia - regional development  -  to the Cities Commission. 
The Government's objectives are clear and blatant and they have nothing to do with electoral justice. They are designed purely and simply to favour the perpetuation of an ALP government through the deliberate policy of concentrating political power in the major cities to the disadvantage of all the other areas of Australia, not only the purely rural ones but the regional cities as well. For those reasons I completely oppose this legislation, its objective, and clause 3 in particular. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of raising the base pension rate to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and when is it expected that this proportion will be reached. 
The Opposition will not oppose the second reading of this Bill. However, we have several reservations about it. I note that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is not in the chamber at the moment. 
I trust that he will be able to resolve some of the reservations held by the Opposition in his speech winding up the debate. However, we believe that the Bill is deficient in some specific areas. My colleague the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  will move some amendments to the Bill at the Committee stage. I trust that the Government will be prepared to see the logic of those amendments which are designed to protect the Australian taxpayer from what the Opposition believes can be possible abuses of the provisions of this legislation. 
I think it should be remembered also that the first initiative in this field came from the previous Government. I should like to pay my tribute to the honourable member for Mackellar, the Minister for Social Services in the previous Government, for his efforts in this respect. I think that the Minister for Social Security was less than fair to the honourable member for Mackellar during his second reading speech in introducing this legislation to the House. In the Minister's remarks there was a strong implication that the previous legislation had been unsuccessful in achieving its objectives. He instanced the number of countries approached and the number of reciprocal agreements which the previous Government had been able to con clude successfully. But in fact, of course, the legislation covers a large number of migrants. In the first place there are those, although not affected by the previous Government's legislation in this field, covered by the comprehensive social security benefits with the United Kingdom and New Zealand. But the previous Government was able successfully to conclude reciprocal agreements with Malta, Italy, Greece and Turkey. Between them those countries account for a large number of migrants to Australia. 
The previous legislation provided for portability of benefits, as honourable members will be aware, subject to 20 years residence in Australia while over the age of 16 years, and there had to be reciprocal agreements with the countries concerned. This legislation makes much more generous provision. In the first place there is no requirement for a reciprocal agreement. For an age pension 10 years residence in Australia is required and 5 years residence is required for eligibility for an invalid pension where the cause of the invalidity was incurred while the person concerned was resident in Australia. The applicant is required to have resided in Australia for 10 years in the case of an injury causing invalidity being occasioned outside Australia. In future, satisfaction of these requirements will qualify people for a portable pension. No residential qualification is required for a widow whose husband dies while they are both permanently resident in Australia. Broadly, those are the criteria which will be applied for eligibility for pensions in the future. 
The Opposition is concerned to see that these very much more generous provisions in the Bill are not abused. We are not convinced that the Bill as drafted will prevent abuses. But with relatively simple amendments, asI mentioned will be moved by the honourable member for Mackellar, these abuses could be prevented. Therefore, the Opposition hopes that the Government will see the force of the proposed amendments and support them. As I mentioned earlier the Opposition's concern is to protect the Australian taxpayer from people who take advantage of this scheme. At the same time the Opposition wishes to protect the interests of migrants and indeed all Australians in achieving true portability of pensions. But we do not see justification for Australian taxpayers having to provide pensions to people who already are getting them under the reciprocal agreements with the 
United Kingdom and New Zealand. Nor do we believe that the conditions for eligibility should be so loose that they will encourage some people to come to Australia for perhaps a brief period when they are quite young, purely for the purpose of becoming eligible for a lifetime pension - a very valuable asset as I am sure all honourable members would agree. 
These are the aspects which will be dealt with by the amendments to be moved. Clearly the Government is not yet in a position to indicate what the future situation will be of Australian residents in the United Kingdom. In his second reading speech the Minister merely said that necessary action has already been initiated. But of course one party cannot unilaterally change an agreement: it can abrogate an agreement not that I am suggesting we would consider that course for a moment. The reciprocal agreement provides for considerable notice to be given before it can be abolished or changed. Id the meantime there must be a large element of doubt amongst those who are included in the terms of the reciprocal agreement. In fact, 1 am quite sure that many honourable members would have received representations since the introduction of this legislation to that effect. I am talking now about the reciprocal agreement with the United Kingdom particularly. People are concerned about the doubtful position which British migrants occupy at present. 
Finally, I draw attention to 2 unsatisfactory aspects of this legislation. The first one, as I regret is the case with so many other proposals introduced by the Government, is that no attempt has been made to estimate the costs involved in the implementation of these proposals. I am well aware that in a piece of legislation like this it is not possible to give a definitive, accurate estimate of cost because we do not know until the legislation has been in force for a while just how many more people will take advantage of the new portability criteria. But I do think that we could have expected at least some reference by the Minister to the economic implications of this legislation. We certainly will be looking for some explanation during the course of this debate. 
The second point that I should like to make is that this Bill is just one more example of what 1 might term sloppy and loose legislation which has been introduced by this Government. As my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  will demonstrate, the Government has not given sufficient attention to some of the technical points involved and has left portable pensions - in some conditions - open to abuse, to the grave potential disadvantage of the Australian taxpayer. The Opposition is concerned about this and we will be bringing forward constructive amendments which, while not in any way affecting the benefits and privileges of the bona fide applicant for pension portability, will protect the interests of those who will be called upon to pay the costs of this scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it now Government policy that jobs offered to registered job seekers must be of the same trade as or equivalent in nature to the work they did previously? Could this result in people who are able to work and for whom work is available being placed on the unemployment benefit at a lower rate of income than that provided by a job which would enable them to make a productive contribution to the community? In view of the Minister's reply a moment ago to the honourable member for Diamond Valley and his expressed concern for an efficient allocation of resources, does he think that this will improve the living standards of the people concerned and their families and lead to a more efficient use of our human resources? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many patients eligible for Commonwealth benefits were admitted to private nursing homes in the months of (a) November and December 1972 and (b) January and February 1973. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Government consult the Australian Dental Association prior to the decision to send dental therapy trainees to New Zealand. 
Is it a fact that, in the opinion of the Australian Dental Association, dental therapists in New Zealand are trained on equipment which is in some cases outdated. 
If so, will the new trainees sent to New Zealand have to do a refresher course on their return to Australia. 
Will some of the trainees sent to New Zealand do the second year of their course in Australia. 
The clauses that we are now debating illustrate why this Bill is a travesty of industrial legislation. I go back to the circumstances in which conciliation and arbitration legislation was originally introduced in Australia. This history has been referred to by previous speakers on this side and also by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I think a fair proposition would be that the original conciliation and arbitration legislation had as its objective the bringing of order and reason into a situation then sadly lacking in order and reason. The Minister for Labour will be well aware of the turmoil of the shearers' strikes of the late 19th century, out of which the conciliation and arbitration legislation evolved. I think the Minister would agree that it is fair to say that at that time the balance of power lay with the employers. One of the original objectives of the conciliation and arbitration legislation was to redress that balance. I do not think anybody would seriously disagree with the proposition that the balance has completely changed. This is what makes the speech by the Minister a moment ago when referring to events many years previously and in other countries totally irrelevant in the Australian context today. 
All that the Minister for Labour said would lead the House to believe that all strikes were just strikes in support of reasonable wages and/or working conditions. This also was the thesis of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  in the speech which he has just delivered. He made a supposition that all strikes were just strikes in support of wage or working conditions justice. My point - and I do not think that it has been made yet in this debate - is that those are not the only kinds of strikes. In recent years in particular many strikes which have gravely affected the public interest and the national economy have had nothing whatsoever to do with wage claims, working conditions or anything of that sort at all. Sometimes these strikes are referred to as political strikes or perhaps more accurately as strikes to press political aims. The point I make is that those strikes have nothing to do with the sort of situation about which the honourable member for Phillip has just been speaking. The provisions of this legislation would enable such action to take over the function of government. 
Sitting suspended from  1  p.m. to  2.15  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for lunch 1 was pointing out that the case that the Government was putting for the removal of all penalties under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was based on a fallacy because the case put forward by the Minister, and also by the honourable member foi Phillip, was that all strikes were just strikes, that they were all in support of wage claims or working conditions which could be considered fair and reasonable. The point I was making was that in recent years particularly we have seen a different sort of strike, many strikes gravely affecting the public interest and not having anything to do with wage claims or working conditions but which were, in fact, in pursuit of political aims. I pointed out that this legislation would enable such action to be taken to take over the function of government. The action taken by a small number of people in the circumstances 1 have just described, people not elected - 1 emphasise this - by the electors of Australia, would take out of the hands of the Government of this country the proper conduct of our national and international affairs. This legislation would put an apparent seal of approval on and would lend an air of legality to such action. It could be indulged in, as has been pointed out by other speakers, with complete impunity. I believe that no govern ment worth the name should allow itself to be associated with such legislation, yet this Government has not only introduced it but has also very strongly advocated its adoption. 
But there is another side to this legislation - to this proposal to eliminate all sanctions provisions - which 1 think needs emphasising as well, and that is that in the Government's efforts to render all sorts of strikes legal the Government has rendered all lockouts legal. In other words, so far as industrial legislation is concerned, the provisions the Government is now putting forward would take us back to square one. Strikes and lockouts, for whatever reason, would by the Government's proposals become respectable. The principal bugbear of industrial relations prior to the introduction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was strikes and lockouts, yet by this legislation we are going back 70-odd years and we are liable to find ourselves in a situation which the original industrial legislation, in which Australia at that time was one of the leading nations of the world, was designed specifically to overcome. Bui of course now, compared with the situation in 1904, there is one very important difference, and that is the balance of industrial power to which I referred before lunch. This balance of power has now completely changed. No longer are the unions in a defensive position as they could have been considered to be then; they are now in an offensive position, and there is overwhelming contemporary evidence to show that on occasions they are willing and ready to abuse the balance of power they now hold. If the Government has its way this sort of irresponsibility, this abuse of power, will be encouraged. So the Government is cynically prepared to run the risk of lockouts because it feels, probably with some justification, that union power is such as to make lockouts in fact very unlikely. That is why the Opposition is so concerned at the biased nature of the philosophy embodied in these clauses that we are debating now and that is why we intend to oppose them. 
Question put: 
Tha' clauses 20 to  49  be agreed to. 
We are not opposing this clause. I would like some clarification on a couple of points from the 
Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Clause SO (1b.) (b) states: where the members entitled to vote at the election are some or all of the members of a branch 
I presume that the phrase 'some or all' is used in the same sense as it is used in proposed new section 133 (1a.) which states that the rules of an organisation may provide that in certain circumstances at certain elections for officers those eligible to vote are only a certain number or section of a union. Is that the correct interpretation? 
I thank the Minister. The only other matter is this: The Minister has pointed out that in certain circumstances a union position may be vacant for some time. In many cases the union rules provide specifically that when this sort of situation occurs an appointment may be made under the union rules to fill that vacancy for an interim period. The amendment which the Minister has circulated seems to have been through more editions than the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica*. I notice that the last amendment mentions a period of 12 months during which this appointment may be made, notwithstanding the rules of the organisation. The Minister made the point that where the union rules do not provide that an appointment may be made, this amendment allows that to be done. What about the situation of a union which may have had an unfortunate experience of an official being appointed under its rules as they were and then saying: By golly, we are not going to get caught like that again. We are not going to allow that to happen.' The amendment includes the words: Notwithstanding the rules of the organisation'. Even if the organisation has had an unfortunate experience and specifically excluded the possibility of this happening, as I understand this amendment will enable an appointment to be made. I ask the Minister to consider whether there may be yet another drafting amendment which could take account of a union which did not omit this possibility by oversight; it omitted it deliberately because of some previous experience. I ask the Minister to take this into account. 
asked the Minister  for  Social Security, upon notice: 
Can he say whether public hospital administrators are informing honorary medical staff that they will not receive any more hospital beds for their private patients, unless they comply with instructions to complete NHS forms, so that public hospitals can dispose of some patients and send them to nursing homes. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Can he say whether public hospital administrators have directed medical officers to complete the NHS forms when private doctors refuse to do so. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are there currently serious delays in the distribution of influenza vaccine. 
Are supplies of the vaccine available to the public; if not, why not. 
Does the Government propose to import vaccine from the United Kingdom to overcome any shortage. 
If the position is as stated, does he consider that further Government involvement in the phar maceutical drug field will be any more successful; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What would be the maximum weekly contribution to the Government's health insurance scheme (a) by an individual and (b) by a family where both husband and wife are working, based on current average weekly earnings and calculated in accordance with his answer of 14th March 1973 (Hansard, page 541). 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are there currently serious delays in the distribution of influenza vaccine. 
Are supplies of the vaccine available to tha public; if not, why not. 
Does the Government propose to import vaccine from the United Kingdom to overcome any shortage. 
If the position is as stated, does he consider that further Government involvement in the pharmaceutical drug held will be any more successful; if so, why. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it the Government's view, as stated last year by the honourable member for Maribyrnong - now the Minister for the Environment and Conservation - that private hospitals and nursing homes are irrelevant in the Australian Labor Party's health scheme? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What action is proposed by the Government in relation to the assets of the hospital and medical contribution funds after the introduction of the compulsory levy system of contributions. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many commissions and other investigatory bodies are operating or will operate (a) for his Department alone and (b) in co-operation with his Department and other departments. 
What are the terms of reference of each such body. 
Will the National Commission on Social Welfare wait until the National Compensation Inquiry and other welfare inquiries have been completed, so that it does not examine areas that specialist committees are investigating. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Have some nursing homes closed or are facing closure due to steep increases in running costs without any corresponding increase in the level of fees approved by the Government. 
ls it the intention of the Government to review the scale of approved nursing home fees; if so, when does he expect the review to bc completed. 
If no review is contemplated, where does he expect nursing home patients who have been evicted to get alternative accommodation. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon  notice: 
Are fully equipped facilities for training dental therapists available in Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia. 
If so, did his or any other Department undertake any investigations of (a) these facilities and (b) the New Zealand program. 
Is a report available on the result of any investigations; if so, will it be made public. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a considerable body of professional opinion is opposed to dental therapists treating children over the age of 12 or 13 years. 
Does the Government intend to perisist with its plan to include children up to the age of 15 years in the school dental health scheme. 
What is the estimated number of dental therapists required in Australia if the age limit on children to be treated is (a) 12 years, (b) 13 years, (c) 14 years and (d) 15 years. 
On what research is the estimated number based. 
Will he make public the results of this research. 
This legislation provides a good example of the Government's attitude, to primary industry. I am referring not so much to the legislation itself as to the way in which it was prepared and introduced. Firstly, there was no consulation with the industry and, secondly, the Government repudiated an arrangement entered into by the previous Government. This situation has been brought about at a time when wool is facing a dangerous situation as a major textile fibre. As the Managing Director of the International Wool Secretariat pointed out recently, the real test of wool's market position will come when wool products in the shops reflect the recent price rises for raw wool. The IWS will need every cent it can get to maintain demand in the light of probable considerably increased prices. Let us never forget the simple fact that the price that wool growers get for their product is ultimately determined by the demand for wool. It is not the slightest use having the best selling system in the world if no one wants what you have to sell. Therefore, it is of paramount importance that the IWS have not only adequate funds but also a guarantee of continuity of funds. 
That is where this legislation falls short of requirements and so endangers wool's position in the world textile market. This is especially serious coming just at the time when it seems that years of hard work by the IWS in association with some brilliant research work by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has achieved real breakthroughs in new' products and processes. Machine washable wool, permanent press wool fabrics and wool cigarette (filters are just a few of the new developments which have opened up new horizons for wool. But there is no reason to suppose that wool is any different from other products when it comes to getting maximum market acceptance for these exciting developments. They need promotion, and promotion on a massive scale, if we are to convince the buying public that wool products justify their price premium. It would be disastrous if at this crucial time there was any lack of confidence in the IWS of the Australian Government's determination to stand with the industry in providing the funds essential for this promotion and research. 
I now come to two particular aspects relevant to the responsibilities of the Australian Wool Corporation. The first is the general question of getting wool off sheep. I deliberately do not use the term 'shearing' because there has to be a completely open mind in approaching this problem. Perhaps it is not generally realised the threat that is posed to the wool industry by shearing costs. These costs are rising at about 7 per cent  a  year, and in practical terms this means that shearing costs double about every 12 years. Of course, if woo] prices rise at  a  comparable rate it should not be a major problem, but if there should be a substantial fall in wool prices shearing costs will become  a  crucial factor in the future of the industry. 
Some years ago in this place I advocated a major research program into getting wool off sheep. I am delighted to note that a great deal of work has been going on in this field, but the present wool prices must not be allowed to divert attention or funds from this vitally important work. There are many exciting prospects for research. Chemical shearing is one, the use of advanced cutting mediums such as gas or laser beams is another. Mechanical aids to handle and restrain sheep is yet another fertile field for intensive research effort because that is where the major cost - labour cost is relatively most important. One of the very few good things, probably the only good thing, to come out of recent years of drought and disastrously low wool prices has been the upsurge in interest in cost cutting methods, not only along the lines I have just described but also in handling wool between shed and customer and in the actual selling procedures. That is the second topic I wish to speak about in this debate. 
The success of Economic Wool Producers, which has proved in practice the theories which a lot of us have for years believed to be true, and the very encouraging results of the Australian Objective Measurement Project, have removed any doubts that the future marketing of the Australian wool clip will be closely associated with core testing and subsequent sale by sample and description, perhaps eventual sale by description alone. No single fact has greater implications for  all  those engaged in the industry than this. In particular, it has revolutionised the sorts of facilities which will be required if growers - I emphasise 'growers' - are to get maximum benefit from the cost savings which are potentially available. Traditional wool stores and methods of displaying wool will become virtually irrelevant. 
This brings me to the main point I want to make. The Australian Wool Corporation is now responsible for wool stores in Australia, including the Yennora wool complex. It is apparent from what I have just said that the Yennora complex has become overtaken by technical advances. It is already out of date even before it has been brought into full operation. I realise that a substantial investment has been made in Yennora. I realise too that h represents an advance on the previous fragmented location of wool stores in the Sydney area. But the fact remains that wool growers will not get maximum benefit from new wool selling techniques if Yennora or similar complexes become part of our selling system. They probably are better than what we have at the moment, but that is not the point. 1 use as an analogy the argument over what are the most efficient types of shipping for Australian exports. The real argument is not about whether container ships are better than conventional ships. It is whether container ships are better than the more advanced ships such as vehicle deck ships, roll-on rolloff ships and so on. We now have clear evidence that container ships are, for many types of cargo, including much Australian produce, less efficient and more expensive than are some of the other sorts of ships I have just mentioned. Exactly the same thing applies to wool handling. Fortunately we are not nearly so deeply committed to Yennora-type complexes as we are to container shipping. 
I appeal in the strongest terms to those who are responsible in this field to ensure that no decisions are made which will deprive wool growers of the potential benefits available to them from the earliest introduction of new cost savings techniques. The Australian Woo] Corporation carries a heavy responsibility, and the Government deserves strong criticism for limiting its financial commitments to supporting the AWC operations to one year thereby repudiating the previous Government's undertaking to provide funds for 3 years. By its action the Government has introduced an element of uncertainty into our promotion and research program at a time when continuity and confidence are more necessary than every before. 
The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. In fact, as the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has pointed out, the Opposition is co-operating with the Government to ensure that the legislation is passed through this 
House as soon as possible. The principal reason why the Opposition supports this legislation which provides for a benefit to be paid to people termed supporting mothers is the beneficial effect the Opposition believes the legislation will have on children who otherwise could suffer subsequent disadvantages. Unfortunately, lack of time will not permit me to expand that argument. However, I just wanted that particular item put on the record. 
One uncertain feature of the legislation - this was referred to by the Opposition in a debate on a social service Bill earlier this year - is the possibility of abuse. 1 would like to bring to the attention of the Minister the specific possibility of a young woman eligible for the benefit under the terms of this legislation who comes to Australia, perhaps even under assisted passage provisions, acquiring the right through the portability provision to this benefit and then leaving Australia. This woman, assuming she did not marry again or take up some de facto relationship - and incidentally I will ask the Minister how he proposes to guard against the latter possibility occurring overseas without his knowledge - would be entitled to a lifetime income even though she was not then living in Australia. This, of course, is quite a different situation to the portability aspects of age pensions where there is a qualifying residential period. I would be interested to hear from the Minister how the Government proposes to deal with that problem. 
On behalf of the Opposition I would like to point out some weaknesses or omissions which we believe are apparent in the social services legislation. One example directly relevant to the Bill is the lack of any mention about a supporting benefit for widowers who find themselves in much the same position as supporting mothers as defined in this Bill. My colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  will be distributing an amendment relating to this aspect. However, to ensure the quick passage of the Bil) to which I referred a moment ago the Opposition will not be pressing for a division on this amendment. In addition, we see the need for the amendment of social service legislation referring to certain aspects of sheltered workshops. Again, the honourable member for Mackellar has an amendment which will be distributed so that the Opposition's attitude will be placed on record. 
Finally, I wish to make it clear that although the Opposition is not opposed to this Bill its main concern is with the normal 2-parent family and especially the young family. In other words, in our efforts to redress anomalies suffered by a minority we must not lose sight of the quite legitimate claims of everybody else. As I mentioned in a speech on earlier social services legislation, the resources allocated to social services must be allocated on a basis of priority. The Opposition, while supporting this legislation, puts as its first priority the needs of the young family who face many difficulties and who have accepted their heavy responsibilities. 
As the Minister for Social Security persistently has denied that the Australian Labor Party health scheme, particularly the medical benefits aspect of it, has any connection with the Canadian scheme I ask him: Are senior members of his Department now in Canada or on their way there? If they are, when were the arrangements made for the officers of his Department to visit Canada? Finally, are his officers accompanied by a representative of the IBM company and, if so, who is paying the latter's expenses? 
by leave  -  I would like to thank the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for his very prompt attention to this question. 1 shall be very interested to hear the results of the investigations he intends to make. However, I would like to make the point that the Government should ensure that competition is an essential element in the introduction of computers, which are a very complicated and expensive area of equipment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the normal weekly hours of work for salaried medical practitioners employed by Government Departments. 
Are the estimated costs of running salaried community health centres based on medical practitioners working the same hours as given in answer to part (1). 
Has he consulted with the Australian Medical Association or any other professional body on the terms and conditions of employment of salaried medical practitioners working in community health centres. 
asked the. Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did he receive a submission from the Australian Association for Geriatric Nursing Care in March 1973. 
If so, has he acknowledged or replied to the submission; if so, on what dates. 
If he has not acknowledged or replied to the submission, does he intend to do so. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When were the arrangements made for the visit to Canada by officers of his Department, referred to in my question without notice on 25 May 1973 (Hansard, page 2680). 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. How much additional revenue will be raised from the rural community by the abolition of depreciation allowances, the imposition of increased country telephone rentals and higher non-metropolitan petrol prices? 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Will tenders be called for the supply of computer equipment required for the Government's proposed National Health Insurance Scheme; if so, will details of tenders received be made public. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I rise to support the amendment moved by the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I do so because this Budget fails lamentably and completely to tackle the greatest problem facing the Australian economy today, and that is the problem of inflation. The Budget is claimed to be neutral; but what is the definition of a neutral Budget? In my opinion it is a budget which is brought in in a context of nil inflation and which balances income and expenditure. In this case there is not only a substantial domestic deficit but the Budget is brought in in a situation where inflation is running at a rate of more than 13 per cent. If it is neutral in this context it means that it is not going to make any attack at all on this 13 per cent rate of inflation - and of course it will not. It is neutral in that sense, but what a disastrously neutral sense that is. It is a Budget which refuses to tackle a dangerous rate of inflation, a rate with which no country can live indefinitely. 
I would like to concentrate on problems inherent in the Budget as they affect country areas. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in his speech on the Budget on Tuesday night referred to this question when he said: 
The Budget will confirm the view of the countryman that Labor does not understand his special problems and does not care. It continues to illustrate the anti-country prejudice of a trade union based party which cannot understand the interaction between rural and metropolitan economic activity. They must be seen as a whole and not as two competing interests. 
This is the most one-sided Budget that I can ever remember being brought into this Parliament. It is completely loaded against all people who live in country areas, and I am not speaking only of primary producers themselves. 
The exporter of Australia lives or dies by a combination of domestic costs and export prices. This Budget perpetuates and indeed will exacerbate his domestic costs. Exporters and primary producers in particular have been called upon to bear almost the full cost of successive currency appreciations which have been made since this Government came to office. I am not necessarily arguing that some currency appreciations were not justified. All I am saying is that the cost of bearing those appreciations is to be borne quite disproportionately by the primary producer. So the primary producer has not only had money taken out of his pocket by this problem of domestic costs, he has even had money which would have been put into his pocket stopped by these successive currency appreciations. Indeed the primary producers of this country can thank their lucky stars that the Australian Labor Party Government came into power at a time that coincided with a resurgence in world trade and demand for their products. Certainly they could not have expected any consideration from this Government. Its attitude, as I said, is one-sided and it is - I hesitated to use the word but I do so with good evidence - a callous attitude which was typified in a speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  which he made during the adjournment debate on 23 August. It is recorded in Hansard at page 376. This comment was brought to my attention by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and it is so extraordinary that I feel it bears repeating. The Treasurer speaking in that debate said:   . . if the brandy industry at some later point of time can show me that it has been battered to the ground as a result of this action, which would greatly surprise me, I will be prepared to hear representations. 
Later on in that speech he said: 
If people find that they have suffered detriment to the point where they are likely to be exterminated, I will be willing to listen to them. 
I was astonished and extremely concerned at those comments. I have always believed the Treasurer to be a rational man who would make a balanced decision in the context of his own political philosophy, but since these comments have been made I regetfully have had to reassess this judgment of him. Only rarely does the ALP reveal its true intentions and on this occasion it was done by one of its most senior members, the Treasurer of this country. It is clear that the Government intends to be quite ruthless in respect of any section of the Australian community from which it does not need or does not expect support. 
I do not intend going into the whole disastrous list of measures directed against the country people. I want to concentrate on 2 aspects in particular. The first is that of transport and communication' costs - two of the principal disabilities suffered by those who live outside metropolitan areas. Country people not only face the additional Se a gallon on petrol but also up to an additional 2c a gallon above that amount. This eventually will prove to be a double edged sword because these extra costs will be reflected in increased food costs all over Australia. There are in addition the problems of increased telephone rentals. I do not suppose many people in this House realise that under the previous policy telephone rental charges were geared to the number of people to whom the subscriber had local call access. I am glad that the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is at the table because I know he would realise this very well. But under the new system a person who is connected to a small rural automatic exchange with perhaps local access to 40 or 50 people will pay the same amount of rental as somebody in Sydney or Melbourne who has access to perhaps 2 or 3 million people. The rates of rental for a great many people will be doubled from $27 to $55. This is a serious imposition for people who already suffer disabilities. 
The second aspect I would like to refer to specifically is that concerning depreciation allowances for primary producers which have been abolished or drastically reduced. The ones I want to concentrate on are those relating to water conservation, fodder storage and machinery replacement. Perhaps it would be wise to explain what the situation was before this Budget. In the case of water conservation the expenditure was claimable as a deduction in the year of expenditure. The same went for on-farm fodder storage. In the case of machinery replacement - new machinery - there was an investment allowance and a 20 per cent depreciation rate for 5 years. But what is the position now? Well, strangely enough in respect of water conservation nobody seems to know. I have received 3 different answers as a result of asking 3 people. One said it would be a straight line 10 per cent depreciation. One said it would be  2i  per cent depreciation if any relationship to soil conservation is involved. And one said there is nil. I do not know what the answer is. I have put a question on notice and I hope to get an answer in due course but it is clear that the maximum will be 10 per cent and the minimum apparently nil. 
In the case of fodder storage, again it was claimable in the year of expenditure. But now, as far as I can see, the cost of silos, hay sheds and things of that nature will be depreciated at the rate of 3 per cent which means there will be approximately a 33-year period for write-off. I understand that the depreciation rate on machinery has gone from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. The Treasurer in his speech gave the reason why that was done. He said: 
Some capital expenditures by primary producers are wholly deductible in the year in which they are incurred, while others are subject to accelerated depreciation over 5 years. The deductions unduly favour those benefiting, and are seized upon by some, including 'Pitt Street farmers', to avoid tax. 
In other words, Pitt Street farmers are given as the reason for withdrawing those concessions. My colleague, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  at a symposium some months ago, with remarkable perspicacity forecast that the Government would use the Pitt Street farmer argument as an excuse for abolishing all concessions for all farmers. How right he has been proved so far. We have yet to see what is yet to come out of the recommendations of the Coombs task force. But again it is obvious that the Government has not thought through its policy decisions. It claims that Pitt Street farmers have used concessions such as depreciation allowances for water and fodder conservation and machinery as tax dodges and therefore all these concessions are withdrawn. But this eventually will prove to be a very short-sighted policy - dangerous to the national economy, severe in its effects on genuine farmers and ineffective in its results. 
What about the danger to the national economy? We have to ask ourselves why this concession on water conservation was introduced in the first place. It was introduced because Australia is a dry continent subject to violent fluctuations in rainfall, and it always will be. Anyone who has been through a period of drought knows that it is almost impossible to hand-water large numbers of stock and that it is extremely expensive and often uneconomic to buy and transport fodder. That is why that concession was introduced, to act as an incentive for farmers to drought-proof themselves and to enable them to carry their stock through dry times. As a direct result of this concession safe stocking rates have been greatly increased. Stock have lived which otherwise would have died. Meat has reached the market which otherwise would have rotted in the paddock. As the Labor Party claims to be interested in meat prices, I ask its members to ponder on these statements because they are vital to a proper understanding of the issue. Yet this Government has the effrontery, born of total ignorance, I am afraid, to believe that it can reduce meat prices by the sort of policies it  h  introducing. The only way to reduce meat prices is to increase the supply of meat. Anyone who had the slightest knowledge of economics would know that. But what do we find? The Government, by its actions, is making it much harder and, as a result, more expensive for primary producers to increase their stock numbers and get their stock through to the stage of being fit for slaughter. 
The same sort of argument applies to the purchase of plant and equipment. How many members opposite realise that the Australian farmer feeds and clothes more people than does his counterpart in any other country? Perhaps even more importantly, why is he able to do it? The outstanding productivity performance of the Australian farmer is due to several reasons - hard work and managerial ability being probably the most important. A major influence has been the encouragement that he has had to keep his equipment up to date. Farming is becoming increasingly capital intensive. Bigger machinery and more machinery is needed. The previous Government recognised these changing circumstances and the special depreciation allowance given to farmers enabled them to replace old or outmoded equipment with new and more efficient machinery. 
The withdrawal of these concessions could well have serious repercussions on national productivity in the rural industries. In addition to being dangerous from a national point of view, the propositions of the present Government would be detrimental to the genuine farmer. The present Government does not understand what it has done. Its alleged reason for withdrawing the concessions was to discourage the Pitt Street farmer and to close off a tax dodge. The inevitable result will be that the majority of primary producers who will, in future, be able to afford to spend money on water and fodder conservation and replacing old machinery, will be those who do not have to make a living off the farm, those whose source of income is elsewhere - the Pitt Street farmers. The full-time farmer, burdened by huge debts incurred by drought and years of disastrously low prices, will not be able to afford to spend money in these vitally necessary improvements. He will need his money to pay his interest and capital repayments and to live on. The improved prices of this and last year have proved the only opportunity many farmers have had to cut past losses and to catch up on replacement and improvement programs. 
I have received dozens of telephone calls and letters about the Government's decisions. They were not of abuse but of despair that the Government obviously has no understanding of the problems facing the primary producer. These letters and telegrams have not been concerned principally with the loss of income of the farmer who will suffer as a result of these decisions; the constant thread running through the comments to me has been the bitter anger that farmers will not be able to bring their farms back to the standard which applied before years of drought and disastrously low prices. Farmers have a great pride in maintaining their farms at a high standard of efficiency. This bitter resentment of the abolition of depreciation allowances is because it will not permit farmers to bring their farms to the previous standards of efficiency and this has made a deep impression on them. This demonstrates the total inability of the Government to appreciate the consequences of its decisions. Far from achieving its stated objectives of stopping tax dodges by the Pitt Street farmers  -  I do not at this stage debate the rights or wrongs of this group of producers - the plain fact is that this group will be the main one which will be able to afford to take advantage of the minimal concessions which remain. 
The legislation, consequent upon this Budget, will grossly disadvantage the family farm. The Australian Labor Party pays lip service to the family farm but legislates against it in a highly discriminatory way. The Opposition is determined that the efficiently managed family farm will continue to be the basis of Australian agriculture. During the last year all sorts of country businesses were starting to pick up. Money was circulating again and a new and welcome spirit of confidence was apparent throughout the country cities and towns. This Budget will halt this resurgence of confidence in its tracks. The effect of the Budget on the national economy will be the same as the effect on primary producers themselves - dangerous, severe on individuals and ineffective in achieving its objectives. It is no wonder that Government supporters who have spoken in this debate have found it impossible to present logical arguments in the Budget's defence. It is no wonder that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has branded the 
Budget as economically irresponsible. I have great pleasure in supporting the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The test of the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  will be when the report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices is brought into the Parliament. I have no doubt that an occasion will be provided to vote on the recommendation of the report and I withhold my judgment until that takes place. He will have the chance to make his view known then. This Bill that we are debating now which is to impose a levy on export meat is important in more than one respect. In the first place it affects a very important aspect of the Australia's meat export trade. It is vital to ensure access to our export markets that we maintain the hygiene standards required by overseas countries. These standards are rising constantly and we have to meet them. Certainly these requirements have raised our costs but there have been corresponding benefits as well. For example, there has been a marked improvement in the hygiene standards and working conditions in Australian exporting meat works. Many such establishments also provide meat for the home market. Therefore domestic consumers have also benefited. I think it is true to say that Australia's major meatworks can now stand comparison with any in the world. 
I agree with my friend and colleague the honourable member for Patterson. Unfortunately the Bill is also important for a quite different reason altogether. It provides a striking example of the incompetence of the Government on one hand and the contempt for Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on the other. The purpose of this bill was foreshadowed in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  He said: 
The Government has decided to impose a charge on the export of meats, to recoup from the meat industry the substantial expenditure incurred by the Government for the benefit of the industry on export meat inspection services. 
From 1 October 1973 to 30 June 1976, the charge will be 1 cent a lb on meat exports. The charge is expected to yield $14m in 1973-74. 
Leaving aside for a moment the doubtful arithmetic of that $14m as exposed by my colleague the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  I continue quoting the Treasurer's Budget Speech. He said: 
The Government has also decided to recoup from the beef industry the expenditure incurred in the campaign to eradicate bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. The amount to be recouped in 1973-74 will be approximately $6m. 
I ask honourable members to note the last sentence particularly. It reads: 
Details will be announced by the Minister for Primary Industry in due course. 
My first comment on this aspect is: Where is the promised statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  on raising funds for the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns? Other honourable members may have been more fortunate than 1. 1 have not seen it or heard of it so far. 
We now come to the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  in which he stated in the first sentence: 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose a charge on meat exported from Australia in order to recoup the cost to the Government of export meat inspection. 
That is as clear as crystal. The Bill's intention is clear enough as far as the lc a pound charge is concerned. But we look in vain in the Minister's speech for any mention of brucellosis or tuberculosis. But I do not believe that it is really fair to criticise the Minister for Immigration. After all he is not the Minister for Primary Industry; he is not the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in this House. He is the Acting Minister representing the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in this House. Unfortunately for him this looks to be as close as he will ever get to being the Minister for Primary Industry. So it is not fair to blame him. I must remind him of a statement made by his own Leader. The honourable member for Riverina, the Minister, is someone who lives in the country. By the Prime Minister's definition, someone who lives in the country is a pagan. It is not fair to blame him for the deplorable omission in the second reading speech of any reference to the reason why the levy referred to in the Treasurer's Budget Speech has been increased to 1.6c a pound. 
As far as we are concerned the purpose of the Bill is to raise money to cover the costs of the inspection of meat for export. That is what the Minister said in his second reading speech. The Treasurer in his Budget Speech said the charge to cover this cost would be lc a pound. Why then is the charge 1.6c a pound? To find some explanation we must go to the Prime Minister's statement following his Press conference on 11 September at which he said:  in order to recoup the cost of the Government's contribution to the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign, Cabinet has agreed that the proposed export charge on beef and veal be increased from lc a lb to 1.6c a lb. 
I suggest that that is a disgraceful situation. The Prime Minister made a statement outside the House on a matter of substance consequent on the Budget, and directly related to legislation introduced into this House on the same day. But in the legislation itself no mention whatever of this arrangement is made, just as no mention is made in the Minister's second reading speech. There are only 2 explanations for this omission. It is either gross incompetence or an insult to the Parliament, and the Government deserves severe criticism on either count. That is why the Opposition is moving an amendment consistent with the Treasurer's Budget Speech and consistent with the Minister's second reading speech. All I can say is that it is just as well that, when the Government puts forward sloppy and ill considered legislation, there is an Opposition which can straighten things out for it. 
But this legislation is deficient in other areas as well. We know from the Minister's second reading speech that the purpose of the Bill is:  to impose a charge on meat exported from Australia in order to recoup the cost to the Government of export meat inspection. 
The money raised cannot, therefore, be used for any other purpose. At least the Minister was clear and explicit on that point. However, there is no provision in the Bill for where any surplus money can be placed to ensure that it is used for the purpose explicitly stated in the legislation. Again there are 2 possible explanations for this fact. One is attempted deception. The other again regrettably is incompetence. Neither reflects any credit on this Government. I ask: what would happen if, at the end of the 33 months during which the legislation is in force, more money has been collected than is required to cover the expenses of export meat inspection, the only purpose for which money raised by this Bill can be used? Certainly there is no sign in the Bill or the second reading speech that the money would not disappear into Consolidated Revenue in contravention of the legislation. 
There is no mention in the second reading speech of the calculations which led to a charge of lc a pound being considered the right amount to pay for export meat inspection. My friend and colleague, the honourable member for New England, has produced convincing evidence that the amount raised could be considerably in excess of requirements. If the Government was confident that it was the correct amount it should have told us how it calculated that figure. It has not told us how it calculated it. It has not told us, which means either it expects to raise more than it needs, or it just does not know. Because of the Government's record of ineptitude and incompetence, I will give it the benefit of the doubt and say that the latter is more likely. But that does not make it any less inexcusable. 
The legislation is a mess. It is imprecise; it does not conform with the Treasurer's Budget Speech or the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration. It fails to make proper provision to ensure that the revenue it raises is spent according to the second reading speech. It even fails to produce any evidence or indeed to give any indication that the amount of revenue it will raise is appropriate to the purpose of the legislation. The amendments which will be moved in due course by the honourable member for New England will, we believe, correct some of the deficiencies of the Bill. It is a sad reflection on the Government that it has to rely on the Opposition to make its legislation conform to the Budget's objectives and the Minister's second reading speech, and to include proper safeguards to ensure that the revenue raised is used for the purpose expressly stated in the Bill. It is the Government's own fault if the implementation of this legislation is delayed, because all the trouble could have been avoided if the Government had made a proper job of drafting the Bill in the first place, instead of having to rely on the Opposition to pick up its deficiencies and to correct the mess for it. I suppose we should not be surprised that the Government has made a complete mess of this legislation. After all, it does not know anything about the subject. But it is unfortunate, to say the least, that meat exporters have been caused so much confusion and uncertainty as a result of the legislation. My telephone has been running hot today with inquiries from meat exporting companies trying to find out what this all means, asking whether the levy was lc a pound or 1.6c a pound and what is the basis on which this levy has been raised. 
As the honourable member for Balaclava so wisely interjects, the Government could not care less. The legislation has implications for future proposals affecting the meat industry. We have all heard of other measures which the Government is considering, such as a very heavy export tax or some form of export quotas. If this legislation is any guide, any further Government interference in the industry will be equally ill considered. The only long term solution to excessively high meat prices - and I should like to point out that present Australian prices, after many years of ridiculously, unrealistically low prices, are still well below those applying overseas - is to produce more meat. Confidence is an essential requirement for increasing production. Confusion inhibits and restricts increased production. Here is a classic example of confusion and badly drafted legislation. I trust - but I confess with not much expectation that I will be proved right - that, by the lessons the Government should have learned from the errors contained in this legislation its future efforts will be better prepared and show more understanding of the subject. 
I wish to lend my strong support to the amendment moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  to establish a trust fund for the revenue raised by this legislation. Of course the real basis for this fund is tested by the question of what happens to the money raised if it is in excess of requirements. I accept that what the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has been saying has been said in good faith, and I can assure him that it is no reflection on him personally that we are pressing for this amendment. For a start, it is too much to believe that the Minister's arithmetic will be perfect. Even assuming that the basis on which his calculations have been made is fundamentally correct - in fact it is nearly correct - it is certain it will not be exactly correct. Even if the amount is some thousands out - perhaps not a large amount by Government standards but still not insignificant by ordinary standards - proper provision must be made for it, otherwise an extremely bad precedent could be established and one which could have all sorts of undesirable consequences. One of course is the issue raised by the honourable member for New England, that if indeed it is possible to use the money for the purpose of tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaigns - I reiterate the support of this side of the Parliament for those campaigns - it is possible to divert money somewhere else, lt is all very well for the Minister to say that arrangements and agreements have been made. That is not good enough for our side of the Parliament. At best, it is a very untidy precedent to establish, and our amendment is designed to tidy it up, to remove that uncertainty. 
I come now to the vexed question of the weight of meat exported. The Minister, as I understand it, has given the average figure for 3 years. I believe it is common knowledge too that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has estimated that over the next 3 years there will be approximately a 25 per cent increase in meat exported, and it is my further understanding that it is on that basis that the Australian Meat Board made its submission to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. That was the basis on which the Board made its projection. 
I accept the Minister's interjection, but the basis of the Meat Board's submission and its figure for weights exported was a published document from the BAE, which itself estimates that exports will go up by 25 per cent in 3 years. Further confusion has been caused by the question as to whether the weights on which the charge will be collected are bone-in or bone-out weights. I think the honourable member for New England resolved all doubt as to our figures when it was pointed out in the submission to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices that this was ship weight, so whatever figures the Minister quoted are relevant so far as comparison goes to the ones which we quoted. The confusion is further compounded by the definition of meat in the Bill. It says that meat includes flesh prepared wholly or partly from or containing the flesh or other edible portions of sheep, cattle, goats and so on. In other words the levy will be raised on quite extraneous matters besides meat itself. I think the honourable member for New England mentioned spaghetti. It could be raised on cereals and goodness knows what else. It seems to be that the only thing that is excluded is the tin. All this adds up to its being virtually impossible to establish with certainty the weights involved and therefore the revenue to be raised. We believe it is very important to establish this trust fund to remove any doubts whatever as to the destination of the funds raised, and as a side benefit it may save the Auditor-General a little work as well. 
I just want to place on record that the Opposition would have no quibble with the new arrangement if it were a statutory provision. So long as it remains not a statutory provision we would hope that the part would be retained in the Act. The second point I should like to make is that the Opposition would be happier if the decision on this matter were a decision of the Parliament and not a decision made by somebody outside the Parliament 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the definition of "Inspector" and substituting the following definition: - " 'Inspector' means - 
a person in respect of whom an appointment in accordance with subsection (2) of section 125 is in force; 
a person who is an Inspector for the purposes of this Act in accordance with sub-section (2a) of section 125; or 
an officer of the Public Service of a State to whom an arrangement referred to in sub-section (3) of section 125 is applicable;"; 
The Minister has alleged that if he accepts our amendment no inspector can be appointed from outside the Public Service. The point I make is that when it is not spelt out that a person cannot be appointed from outside the Public Service he can be, so that point is covered. The Opposition is not opposing section 125 (1.) and section 125 (4.) of the principal Act. As the Minister said a moment ago that he does not want the power to appoint and is quite happy to operate under the power given by section 125 (4.), which the Opposition is not opposing, I do not see why the Minister does not accept the amendment that the Opposition has moved. 
I do not think that this clause should go past the Committee without noting some of the comments made by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  The amendment we propose has 2 main purposes, the first of which relates to an act done by an officer, delegate or member of an organisation being lawful. It is most interesting that the 2 honourable members I have just mentioned took great exception to the suggestion that a union officer, delegate or member should act lawfully. I do not know why they should take offence at that but they did. 
The. second objective of the amendment is that whatever they do should be within the limits of authority expressly conferred on them by their own organisation. I do not think the honourable members have done the debate on this Bill and on clause 6 in particular any great service by getting back to the tort provisions It was inherent in what they said that they were getting back to the abolition of the tort provisions. Inherent in that is that what officers, members or delegates do need not be lawful if it is in furtherance of an industrial dispute. If the members of an organisation always act lawfully and within the authority expressly conferred on them by the rules of their own organisation they have absolutely nothing to worry about within the terms of this amendment. That is the point I am trying to get across. It is only if they act unlawfully outside the rules of the authority expressly conferred on them that they have anything to worry about. If they are the lily white characters as portrayed by the honourable member for Burke and the honourable member for Melbourne they have nothing to worry about. I am extremely surprised that the honourable members should have taken exception to this amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How is it intended to raise the $6m from the beef industry to finance the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime 
Minister's answer to a question from the Leader of the Australian Country Party on 19 September in which the Prime Minister said: 
The constant allegation that the Australian Government had done something to the disadvantage of rural industries, stems from the fact that we have ended some of the feather-bedding of the Pitt Street, and Collins Street farmers. There is no genuine rural producer who has other than benefited from our policies. 
I now ask the Prime Minister to confirm, consistent with that answer, that the abolition of the investment allowance, the reduction of depreciation rates on new plant and machinery, the reduction almost to the point of abolition of depreciation allowances for the costs of fodder storage and water conservation, and the doubling of country telephone rentals will apply only to people he calls Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers. How does he propose to define the difference between those and other farmers so that the genuine producers to whom the Prime Minister referred will not be subject to measures which he claims were not aimed at them? 
-The Opposition supports this Bill. As the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said, its primary purpose is to obtain Parliamentary approval for the insertion of a new protocol as the Eighth Schedule to the principal act. The protocol of amendment to the Chicago Convention increases the membership of the Air Navigation Commission from 12 to 15 members. This proposition was endorsed by the Federal Government 2 years ago when  Senator Cotton,  as Minister for Civil Aviation, led the Australian delegation to the International Civil Air Organisation's assembly session held in Vienna in mid-1971. 
This Bill merely provides the machinery to include this amendment, which was unanimously supported by the member States of ICAO, in our statutes. The Air Navigation Commission has played an important role in the establishment of international standards for the operation of safe and efficient air services by international airlines. Any move that will strengthen and facilitate the work of the Commission which, as the Minister said, is becoming more complex with the technological advances being made in air navigation, must be suported wholeheartedly. 
It is now generally recognised that the protection of industry is a major economic issue. That has not always been so - at any rate, not to the same degree. I should like to quote from a speech I made in this place more than 5 years ago. The first quotation is:   . . the time has come for a careful examination of the rates of tariff protection applying in this country and, perhaps even more important, full consideration of the question of whether the methods currently employed to determine the rates of protection are based on sound economic principles. 
The second quotation is: 
Unless we are prepared to make a thorough objective assessment of our current tariff policies and where they are leading us, the economy of this country, and especially the export industries, I believe, are in for serious trouble . . . 
The third and final quotation is: 
I hope that Parliament will be instrumental in formulating a programme to establish a tariff policy in Australia that is based on sound economic principles, with an appreciation of the problems caused by current demands on the rapidly expanding full employment economy and with a much greater appreciation of the wider issues involved than has been evident in recent years. 
It will be apparent from those quotations that I support this legislation. I came into the field of tariff debate at a time when, in the words of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who had made such a great contribution to this topic over the years, an interest in tariffs had become almost respectable. There has been a steady improvement in our tariff policy over recent years. This has been due, to a considerable extent, to the  Chairman  and members of the Tariff Board. Their careful, patient and logical exposition of the effects of tariff policy has created a new awareness in the public and the Press on this topic. It is impossible even to think that we would return to a policy of uncritical indiscriminate protection. 
The reason usually given why tariff policy is important is that it affects our allocation of national resources. That is a very good phrase. It is a good shorthand way of describing it. But what exactly does it mean? What are the effects of tariff policy? The first and most obvious effect is the direct one. Tariffs are a tax on imports. They enable a local producer to charge more for a product than he would be able to charge in the absence of protection and still remain competitive. The higher price, of course, is passed on to the consumer. This has a special effect on exporters, particularly in those industries which nave to export the major proportion of their production and accept the world price for it. It also has a growing importance for our manufacturing industries. Therefore, all exporters have a common interest in this subject. 
Australian technology is advanced and we have a relatively small population. The combination of these 2 facts makes it extremely important to attain economies of scale in our production. Because our population is relatively small and our technology is advanced, it is inevitable that in most industries if we are to attain an economic scale of production we will have to export some proportion of it. If we are to export it, it has to be at a price at which we can sell it on world markets. In these circumstances there is a grave danger of excessive protection leading to fragmentation. This fragmentation occurs because when an industry has excessive protection potential investors in that industry think to themselves: This looks a pretty good cake to me. I am going to have a piece of that'. When too many of these people invest in the industry of course there is not enough cake to go around, and all those left in the industry then need excessive protection which in fact was not needed in the first place. 
The second major effect of tariffs is an indirect one because, particularly in secondary industry which has unused protection, industries are able to pay over-award wages. This is fine for the employees of the particular industry, but it is a grave disadvantage to the other industries in the economy which do not have unused protection: In many cases they may not have any protection at all. If the overaward payments are made in a large industry, such as the metal trades industry, the flow-on effects of these increased wages are virtually impossible to contain in the industry concerned. The third effect is the distribution effect. It is sometimes forgotten that tariffs direct income to those who have protection and take away incomes from those who do not have it. This simple effect is often overlooked. You cannot protect one industry and give it a larger share of the national cake without depriving some other section by a corresponding amount. So these are the reasons why tariffs are important. 
The next question we have to resolve is how this great issue should best be handled. The need for the Tariff Board has long been recognised. I do not think anybody questions this. Its reputation certainly has fluctuated over the years but, as I mentioned previously, it is now held in very high regard. Due to the improved quality of its reports and the undisputed logic of the writings and speeches of its chairman in particular, the Government has wisely taken notice of its advice. 
It is some years since the Liberal Party advocated an approach to primary industry similar to that which has been long adopted in relation to secondary industry. There are several reasons why it does so now. The first is the logic of the situation. A similar critical approach should be applied to all sections of Australian industry, and it must be remembered that primary industry is an extremely important area of our economy. It supplies more than 50 per cent of our export income. The second reason is the growing interdependence of industries within the Australian economy, that is, the effects on an industry or group of industries through decisions made in relation to other industries, either granting or withdrawing assistance. The Australian economy is a complex one in the primary, secondary and tertiary fields. Perhaps previously a case could have been mad  that decisions could have been justified on a more or less ad hoc basis, but this certainly no longer applies. The inter-relationship of industries in the primary, secondary and tertiary fields, and between these fields themselves, make this no longer a tenable argument. Error in protection policies, therefore, has a cumulative, compound effect which will multiply any original error, thus making it more difficult to correct. 
The third reason is that there is a great need to overcome the unfortunate but historic distrust of people who live in the urban areas for those who live in the country, and vice versa. Certainly, a major factor in this distrust is that many people in the cities are unaware of the degree and value of protection of consumer goods by tariffs, that is, by a tax on imports. On the other hand, they are very much aware of the value of direct assistance given to primary industry because such assistance is made public. It is listed in the Budget for everybody to see. This attitude of mutual distrust and suspicion must be broken down. We are all members of one national economy with a common interest in each other's prosperity or the lack of it. No one section of the Australian community can be seriously disadvantaged for any length of time without disadvantaging the economy as a whole. But to eliminate the old attitude of distrust and suspicion there has to be - even more importantly, there has to be seen to be - a common approach to all industries and to all requests for assistance, whatever the industry involved. No matter how compelling or valid an argument may be for an industry to receive some assistance by way of bounty, tariff protection or some other form such as quantitative restrictions on imports, if the assistance is to gain public acceptance and be properly understood there must be a suitable forum in which to argue the case in public. No industry with a good case to put has anything to fear from such a course, and this applies particularly to rural industries, the great majority of which are extremely efficient when judged by international standards - and that is more than can be said for some of our secondary industries, particularly those enjoying high rates of protection and which have not been the subject of a Tariff Board report for many years and, in some cases, have never been the subject of a report by the Board. 
It is a fact of life in Australia, as in all advanced countries, that the percentage of the population engaged in primary production will decline. In these circumstances it will become correspondingly more difficult to ensure that this relatively small but extremely important section of our community receives fair and equitable treatment at the hands of government. It will become increasingly more difficult to convince the substantial and growing majority of people who live in the cities of the need for fair treatment of primary industries and those who are dependent on them. It will become more difficult still unless the issues affecting primary industry are subjected to the same impartial examination as applies to other industries. It is my firm belief therefore that a body such as the Industries Assistance Commission can make a major contribution to minimising the risk of uninformed, sectional and divisive attitudes developing in this country. It will be a 2-way contribution. Not only will it perform a most useful function in creating an awareness amongst those who live in urban areas of the particular difficulties and requirements of the rural industries; it will also help to make primary producers and particularly the leaders of their organisations aware of the economic realities of the world market situation in which they have to operate and of their own industry's place in the Australian economy. 
Finally, on this very topical issue of what the Government has done to primary industry since it came to power, I cannot emphasise too strongly that had this Commission been in existence when this Government was elected the rape of the rural sector which has taken place since 2 December would have been impossible. It would have been illegal for this Government to take such arbitrary action as abolishing the butter bounty - with all that implies for individual farmers and certain country districts - without any investigation or report. The establishment of this Commission will be a most valuable safeguard for primary industry against hasty, ill considered and capricious actions by any government with strong anti-rural bias such as the present Government has exhibited. 
These, then, are the principal arguments as I see them in favour of the Commission in the context of primary industry. I have been reassured in my view by the fact that the force of these arguments has been recognised by the principal primary producer organisations at the federal level which have indicated their broad support for the basic concept of this Commission. There are, however, aspects of the legislation which we consider need either amendment or further clarification. The committee stages of this Bill will provide the opportunity to discuss most of these aspects in detail, but there are some more general areas on which I would like to comment now. The first is the subject of joint industry-government funds for research and promotion. These funds have made a major contribution to the industries concerned and indeed to the Australian economy and since, in my opinion, it would not have been appropriate to make these subject to this legislation, I am pleased to learn that in fact the legislation does not apply to them. 
The next issue I raise is that of financial assistance to an industry; that is, assistance other than by way of increased protection or import control. Because such assistance is likely to be required as a result of some sudden unforeseen circumstances, it is reasonable that the Government should have the authority to grant such assistance immediately without it being mandatory to refer the question to the Commission. But it is important to appreciate that direct financial assistance of this sort is readily identified; that it is itemised for all to see and cannot be disguised. 
The possible problem that I see arising is this: Having granted financial assistance to an industry and at the same time having referred the long-term issue affecting the industry to the Commission, what happens if the time limit of 12 months placed on this emergency financial assistance expires before the Commission has been able to submit its report? Even if the time limit is extended to 2 years, the same problem could arise, although no doubt less frequently. I am assuming, of course, that similar circumstances apply when the time limit expires as applied when the emergency assistance was granted. It seems to me that the Government may be in danger of painting itself into a corner on this issue, not being fully aware of the possible consequences of the legislation as drafted. I am conscious that it would be difficult to write adequate safeguards into the legislation, so what I am suggesting is an assurance from the Minister in due course that in this sort of situation the Government would adopt a commonsense approach; that is, the  Chairman  of the Commission would be asked for an interim report which would enable the Government to continue financial assistance in exceptional circumstances. 
The third reservation I have concerns the mandatory reference provisions. According to clause 23 of the Bill, if a report from the Commission has not been received within 30 days after the date requested by the Government, the Government can take action even in the absence of a report. It is obvious that in these circumstances the Government could circumvent the mandatory reference provisions if it put an impossible time table on the Commission, knowing it to be impossible. One way in which to prevent circumvention in this way would be to make it obligatory for the  Chairman  to inform the Government if he considered the timetable to be unreasonable. However, we felt that in a situation such as I have outlined the  Chairman  would certainly make his views known. In addition, I can assure the Government that honourable members on this side of the House will be keeping a keen eye on this question and we will be alert for any sign of any Government attitude which would nullify the mandatory provisions in this way. We would make it absolutely certain that Government action of this sort got wide publicity in and out of the Parliament, and in the current climate of interest in tariff by the media, especially in the financial and technical Press, I doubt very much whether any government would lay itself open to the inevitable storm of criticism which it would bring on its own head. 
There are 2 other aspects which I felt I should mention. The first is that this is quite properly only an advisory body. It is up to the Government to make the final decisions. The second aspect is that there is nothing in the legislation to prevent or inhibit representations being made to the Government by the various primary industry organisations, just as the existence of the Tariff Board has never prevented manufacturing industry from making representations to government on issues of concern to them. Indeed I would expect that many references to the Commission would be as a direct result of such industry-government discussion. 
Any body such as this Commission requires 2 things if it is to be successful in achieving its objectives. The first is to have people of the highest calibre to serve as chairman, commissioners, associate commissioners and staff. I know that we have such people. The second requirement is that the legislation should be administered wisely and responsibly. The Liberal Party will be carefully and critically assessing the performance of this Commission and the Government's decisions consequent on the Commission's reports. Should it appear that the Commission is exceeding its charter or failing to fulfil the high hopes that we have for it, these deficiencies will be corrected on our return to government, so that the Commission operates in the way in which we envisage it should operate to the benefit of the Australian economy and of the individual industries which comprise it. 
 I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
The  Chairman  shall give written notice to the Minister of all direct and indirect pecuniary interests that he has or acquires in any business carried on in Australia or in any body corporate carrying on any such business. 
Where a Commissioner (other than the  Chairman)  or an Associate Commissioner has or acquires any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any business carried on in Australia, or in any body corporate carrying on any such business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his duties as a Commissioner or Associate Commissioner, he shall, to the best of his knowledge, disclose that interest to the Chairman.'. 
This amendment relates to clause 20 of the Bill which states: 
A Commissioner shall not exercise any power conferred upon him by this Act in any matter in which he has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest. 
The reason that I have moved this amendment is consequent on the Industries Assistance Commission encompassing within its responsibility primary industry. I would expect and trust that it is the Government's intention in due course to have people as Commissioners or perhaps Associate Commissioners who are experienced in the rural industries. If, as I trust, in due course this does happen it is quite possible that people appointed in this way could still have an interest and be engaged in farming of one sort or another. 
Not only, as the honourable member for Kingston interjects, in the AWU but I would expect that Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners will be chosen from a wide cross section of people, some of whom will be skilled in the rural industries. 
These people will be on the Commission for a specific purpose. The original clause as set out in the Bill could largely nullify the benefits and indeed the intentions behind having these sort of people on the Commission. I would like to give honourable members a practical example. If the fertiliser industry was up for consideration before the Commission and some member or associate member of the Commission was a farmer from one of the higher rainfall areas of Australia that person could be debarred from taking part in that inquiry although he would have the sort of expertise which would probably be exactly the sort of thing of which the Government would be seeking to take advantage. So we suggest that in place of the original clause we should insert the clause as circulated which follows the pecuniary interest clause as it applies to the Restrictive Trade Practices Tribunal. We believe that the amendment will result in a wider use being made of the particular expertise which we expect will be on the Commission. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What will be the percentage rise in costs to country radio stations who wish to use landlines to provide 3 x 15 minute news services per day, as a result of the Government's proposal to abolish concessional rates on the use of landlines. 
Does the Government consider that the revenue which would be raised as a result of abolishing telecommunications concessions to the media outweigh the reduction in the ability of local radio stations to disseminate news of sporting and other information. 
How many country radio stations operaed unprofitably in 1971-772. 
by leaveOn behalf of the Opposition parties I express deep sympathy to the family and friends of the members of the crew of the vessel 'Blythe Star' who did not survive this disaster. We on this side of the House also share the relief of those families whose loved ones have been saved. Obviously there have been most unusual circumstances surrounding the loss of the Blythe Star' under conditions which the Minister has described as 'relatively calm seas'. We on this side of the House support the Minister in seeking a full inquiry into this sinking. We trust that there will be an absolute minimum of delay before the appropriate people are appointed to undertake this inquiry and start their investigations. 
It is obviously impossible in the short time available fully to cover all the departments in this section of the Estimates. Therefore I. shall confine my remarks to those concerning primary industry. The first point I should like to make concerns the alleged increase of assistance to primary industry from $239m to $295m. That is an alleged increase of $56m. It must be made absolutely clear that the taxpayer will not be subsidising primary industry to the extent of $295m. But it is not surprising, considering the confusion over this question because of the accounting procedures adopted in the Budget, that people assume that the amount shown in the Budget papers as assistance to primary industry is provided entirely at the taxpayers expense. It will be my object to point out that this is an entirely wrong assumption. I shall refer to that matter in detail in a minute or two. 
I now wish to put forward a constructive suggestion to enable all those interested in this question - members of Parliament, primary industry organisations, the financial, industry and technical press and the public generally - to be able to assess more readily what assistance is provided to industry and to eliminate the misrepresentations which seem to be made in any discussions on assistance to primary industry. My suggestion is this: That the Government ask the proposed Industries Assistance Commission to publish a detailed annual report comparing and contrasting all forms of assistance to industry. Any such publication should clearly differentiate between industry and the Government contributions at both Commonwealth and State levels. This is one of the objections which I have to the present method of the presentation of figures in the Budget. Unless one is fully aware of the situation it is difficult to differentiate between what is a Government contribution and what is an industry contribution. I believe that such a report would do much to correct the widely held misconceptions of the relative level of assistance given to all industry especially that which is given by way of direct subsidy to primary industry in comparison with that provided by way of tariff protection to secondary industry. 
In the absence of such precise information let us examine the estimates of expenditure before us. Many items show increased expenditure especially in the field of salary and wages which, of course, is a reflection of the dangerously high rate of inflation in Australia which this Government has exacerbated by its policy decisions. But some items show a reduction in expenditure and some are eliminated altogether. As to the first category, I should like to comment particularly on the appropriation for softwoods development. The proposed expenditure for this year is down from $9.5m to $5.5m. Softwoods are now the largest single item in our import expenditure. It seems strange that such a substantial reduction should be made. I would be interested to hear an explanation of this in due course from the Minister. 
Another item expenditure on which has been reduced is beef cattle roads. That expenditure has been reduced from $7.7m to $5.4m. Again, this seems inconsistent with the Government's attitude towards meat prices. Everyone, even the Government, recognises that the answer to excessively high meat prices is to produce more meat. Beef roads have made a great contribution in recent years to this objective. Probably it has been one of the most significant factors in increased beef production. It is of no use for the Government to make pious statements urging increased production and then to abolish or to reduce nearly every measure designed to achieve this end. I am referring now particularly to the abolition of the investment allowance and the drastic reduction in the depreciation allowances for water conservation, fodder storage, subdivisional fencing and so on. And now, of course, we have this reduction in finance for beef roads. If investment falls off and projections of increased meat production fall short of reality, the Government has only itself to blame. 
One item which this year will receive no assistance is that devoted to the objective measurement of wool. I have lost count of how many times I have spoken on this subject over the last 7 years. As far as I know, I was the first member in this House to advocate this method of assessing wool. I was not of course the first to recognise its .vital importance. On previous occasions I have paid tribute to the work done in this field by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  and I do so again tonight. But how disappointed the honourable member must be to see a government of his own Party wipe out all assistance to research and implementation of the objective measurement of wool. While this technique has been proved beyond doubt a great deal of work still needs to be done before objective measurement becomes universally adopted. In the interests of wool growers and the industry as a whole, objective measurement needs to be introduced as soon as possible. It is tragic that support has been withdrawn just as this concept is gaining wide acceptance. 
I should like to comment briefly on 2 items which have received increased allocations in this Budget. An amount of $168,000 has been allocated for alternative fishery development. I welcome this assistance to one of Australia's fastest growing primary industries. It is very moderate assistance considering the major contribution to export earnings being made by this industry and its exciting future prospects. Some years ago, I drew attention to the need for Australia to play a much greater role in the development of our fisheries. It is extraordinary and regrettable that foreign vessels find it profitable to come thousands of miles to exploit off-shore Australian fisheries which we have neglected. Fortunately, there is now much greater interest being shown by our own fishermen in exploiting these rich resources but their operations have been severely restricted by the lack of finance to enable them to purchase equipment suitable for large scale deep sea fishing. 
I welcome also the increase from $6.3m to $6.9. of grants for agricultural extension services. Australian farmers have to increase their efficiency and productivity if they are to keep pace with inflation and rising costs and the adoption of new and improved management practices is one of the best ways of achieving these things for the benefit of farmers themselves and the national economy. The previous Government introduced the Commonwealth Extension Services Grants scheme and I am pleased that this Government has recognised its merit and continued the scheme. 
I now come back to the figure in the Budget of $295m to assist primary industry. This includes such items as reconstruction finance, which is mainly loans, loans towards repayment from the Australian Wheat Board and levies paid by farmers for research and promotion. For example, the dried vine fruits and poultry industries schemes will be completely self-financed in 1973-74. Other schemes are also wholly or partly financed from export levies. The taxpayers' contribution is almost entirely confined to the wheat stabilisation scheme which, incidentally, next year is almost certain not to make any call on the taxpayer, the milk products bounty, fertiliser subsidies and $1 for Si government contributions for industry research and promotion. 
As was made clear during the debate on the Industries Assistance Commission, one of the reasons why the Liberal Party supports the legislation is that it will provide a forum in which amongst other benefits, assistance to primary industry can be discussed openly and objectively. This should result in a much wider appreciation of just how modest is the actual level of assistance to primary industry. I come back to the suggestion I made earlier in my speech that an annual list should be published by the Industries Assistance Commission setting out and contrasting the various levels and forms of assistance to all industry in Australia. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Transport I refer him to the answer he gave yesterday relating to the provision of a new dry dock in Victoria. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an advertisement stating that a new floating dock with a capacity to accommodate bulk vessels of up to 100,000 tons is available immediately at a reported cost of US$15m? In view of the Minister's acceptance yesterday of the urgency of providing such facilities in Victoria, will he consider carefully the possibility of making an offer for this dock which has been advertised? 

 - Mr Speaker, the Wheat Tax Bill makes provision for increasing the contribution by the wheat industry by 20 per cent for the purpose of research into all aspects of the industry, with a corresponding increase by the Government on a dollar for dollar basis. It will increase the funds available for research from $2m to approximately $2.4m a year. I am pleased to see that it has the support of the industry. It has the support of the Opposition, although in our opinion the legislation is deficient in one respect. We will be seeking clarification and further assurances on another aspect of it. 
Over the years these joint industry government funds for research and, in some instances, promotion have made a great contribution to the industries concerned. In the case of wheat the funds have enabled Australia to remain in the forefront of world research in plant breeding and new varieties suitable for a wide range of climatic and soil types, in soil fertility and fertilising techniques, in solving storage problems and in many other aspects of the industry. It will be noted that the investigation of storage problems is one of the functions on which money raised by this legislation can be spent. It is a most important function, and the Opposition would have liked to see greater attention paid to it by the Government. For a while it looked as if this would be done. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  indicated to the Australian Agricultural Council that provided the wheat industry and the States each contributed $250,000 the Commonwealth Government would add a further $500,000, making a total of Sim to be used on a program for the control of weevils in wheat. The industry agreed to this proposition. The States agreed. Suddenly the Commonwealth withdrew its support and its money. 
There are several points of principle involved, and the Opposition would have liked to move an amendment to this Bill which, while not refusing it a second reading, would have indicated our concern that special provision should have been made for implementing an extended research program into insect infestation of wheat, on the basis outlined by the Minister for Primary Industry to the Australian Agricultural Council and the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. Unfortunately, this Bill not being what is generally described as a purpose Bill, the forms of the House do not enable us to take that course. But there may be another way of dealing with the problem. I will be referring to that later in my speech. But that was not the main principle involved in this rather unsavoury episode. The real point was that this was yet another example of the total unreliability of this Government when it comes to policies affecting primary industry. The States, and the industry taking their cue quite reasonably from the Minister for Primary Industry, made arrangements so that they could fulfil their side of the bargain. Now they are left out on a limb. No wonder the primary producers have lost ail confidence in this Government. The Government, by its actions, has forfeited all right to confidence. 
The question of insect infestation control is an important one, for 2 reasons. It is important, firstly, because of the costs involved in controlling and, one would hope eventually eradicating insect infectation; and secondly, because our reputation as a supplier of high quality produce can be put at risk. We should remember that it is unlikely that the world wheat market will remain a sellers' market indefinitely. While prices are good, we should be taking the opportunity to improve the quality of our produce. In this context I think it is interesting that work is going on in South Australia, at private expense I understand, on new methods of protecting grain. I trust that the Australian Wheat Board and the various bulk handling authorities in the States are keeping closely in touch with this work to ensure that new storages are able to take advantage of new technology as it becomes commercially proved. 
The need for new materials and technology is becoming more urgent. For some years the insecticide generally sold under the trade name Malathion has been the principal means of controlling insect infestation, especially on the farm itself. Unfortunately, there is growing evidence that insects are building up a resistance to this product. To the best of my knowledge, no comparable or more efficient replacement is available or is even likely to become available in the near future. The industry is very conscious of the danger of this situation. I hope that there is an equal recognition on the part of the Government of the need to find a safe and satisfactory substitute for Malathion in the protection of grain. The need is becoming increasingly urgent. 
As I said earlier, there- may be a way round getting extra finance for insect control and research, in the absence of a special program such as the one which was proposed originally by the Minister for Primary Industry. The House will note that this Bill makes provision for a rate of tax not exceeding 15c per tonne, although the actual amount collected is to be 11c per tonne. That is a 20 per cent increase over the present rate. The Minister has indicated that it will be matched by the Federal Government. I now draw attention to clause 3 (2) of the Bill which provides that the rate can be varied after consideration by the Governor-General of a report made to the Minister by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation'. Therefore it is possible under this legislation to increase the tax on growers. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  in his second reading speech, said.: 
The Government has decided that it will continue to provide funds to match industry contributions at the new rate of tax proposed, that is, 11c per tonne. 
As I interpret this reference, there is no guarantee that if the industry increases its contribution above 11c per tonne this increase will be matched by the Government. Certainly it has always been the practice in the past that in such circumstanres the Government has made a corresponding increase in its contribution. I am not prejudging this aspect of the matter, but it may be that the Government intends to follow past practice. What I am seeking from the Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Primary Industry, is a firm undertaking that if the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation decides that the tax of 11c per tonne is insufficient to meet the needs for which the fund was established, and if it agrees to a higher grower contribution, the Government will match that increased contribution from the industry. 
There is one further issue which is raised by this legislation. It is of more general application than to the wheat industry alone, but it is relevant to this Bill. I have referred to the benefits which have resulted from these joint industry government research and promotion funds. In my opinion, they have one particular defect. They tend to limit flexibility in the use of research funds and thereby inhibit the development of alternate land uses. The House will remember that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  made specific reference to this point during his contribution to the debate on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. Unfortunately, this defect is selfperpetuating because when an industry - in this case the wheat industry - contributes money for research and/ or promotion the money has to be spent on projects involving that specific product. It is very easy to understand that the industry would be concerned if it felt that money it had contributed was to be spent on something unconnected with its own industry. But I should like to remind the House that the situation could arise, and in fact has arisen, that the most valuable research which could be done from the point of view of the industry is research into alternative uses for some land devoted, in this instance, to growing wheat. 
We had a classic example of this situation a few years ago at a time of wheat glut, wheat quotas and depressed world prices for wheat. Growers were casting around for other crops to grow. Many of them tried oilseeds of varying kinds and with varying degrees of success. It soon became apparent that we were severely limited in the choice of seed varieties. Naturally, there was not the same experience in growing those crops as there was in growing wheat. I am certain that there are good prospects of substantially raising the profitability of growing crops of this type. But, because it is not a very large or long established industry, no funds are available to pay for the necessary research and plant breeding programs. For example, we import large quantities of soya beans. I have no doubt that we could increase domestic production by substantial amounts, but the necessary research just has not been done to enable farmers to take full advantage of the opportunities that are available for growing this crop. 
We know that to grow soya beans successfully the variety planted must be the right one for the latitude in which the crop is to be grown. Soya beans are highly susceptible to variations in the hours of daylight. I understand that in North America varieties of this crop have been developed which can be grown in latitudes as high as 40 degrees. As far as I know, our efforts to develop varieties of soya beans for Australian conditions have been restricted almost to a one-man effort in northern New South Wales. Unfortunately, the situation that I have described is likely to continue unless funds are available to correct it. But, as I have said, under the conditions applying to these research funds there does not seem to be much prospect of being able to divert money into research in other fields which not only would reduce the dependence of wheat growers on demand for one crop but might in some areas provide growers with an increased income. I fully appreciate that changing the present system will require close co-operation with the primary producer organisations concerned. All I am suggesting at this stage is that those responsible should be giving serious consideration to the problem I have described and what should be done to overcome it in the best interests of the industry and of the individual farmers concerned. With those reservations, the Opposition supports this Bill. 
 On behalf of my Party I emphasise merely that we have no opposition to the amended Bill. We support the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign, and in the present climate of buoyant meat prices we accept that it is not unreasonable that a charge should be levied to pay for it. I am pleased to hear from the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  far more information than was originally given on the basis for calculations for the levy. I am pleased to see in the levy differentiation between meat inspection charges and charges for the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign spelled out. All I can say is that it is a great pity all this has happened. A lot of time wastage could have been avoided had this information been made available in the first place. However, in its amended form this Bill now has our support. 
This further amendment which has been accepted by the Government is a good illustration of the value of an Opposition in a Parliament, especially when the Government exhibits so lamentable a lack of knowledge of its own legislation when it is first introduced and, on the other hand there is an Opposition well informed on the subject. This does result in better legislation with proper safeguards in relation to the trust funds for the moneys which will be raised by this levy. I am pleased to see that the Government has accepted the reasonable, constructive points put forward by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  in the course of the debate when this Bill was before the Committee earlier. We wish now to support it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported: report adopted. 
asked  the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the attitude of the Government to the proposal that all money collected by way of petrol tax be used for road development. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Australian National Line add a further container ship or ships to the two it already operates in conjunction with ACT(A) Ltd. 
If so, where will the ship or ships be built. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I remind the Minister of the growing use of light aircraft to make private and business flights to south-east Asian countries, particularly Indonesia. Can the Minister assure me that the quarantine procedures for passengers returning to Australia by such flights, especially from areas where foot and mouth disease is known to exist, are equally as stringent as those applying to ordinary commercial flights? For example, do occupants alighting from light aircraft have to walk through a disinfectant solution as do passengers from commercial flights when returning to or entering Australia from a foot and mouth disease area? 
This Bill seeks parliamentary provision for a further appropriation of $35,944,000. The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. However, we register our particular concern that this appropriation is needed to provide for extensive increases in the Commonwealth Public Service. In addition, we place on record our view that this appropriation should have been submitted to the Parliament at an earlier date to cut out the delays in many Commonwealth payments which have occurred. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has pointed out, a precedent to this Bill was established by the former Government in 1971. However, legislation was passed in that instance in sufficient time to prevent the delays in Government payments which have occurred this year. The Treasurer has been prepared to allow a situation to develop which could have been pre-empted by the introduction of a similar Bill some time ago. 
The Government has asserted that the pressure of the Government's legislative program can be blamed for the delay in the passage of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74. The Government, after all, has the responsibility for the legislative programming of this House. If the main Appropriation Bill had been given the prirority which it warranted, there would have been no need for supplementary measures of this type. I do not want this to be taken as an argument for cutting down speaking time on legislation and the Estimates. We have had far too many examples of the Government using its numbers to stifle debate on important issues. What I am saying is that it should not be beyond the capacity of the Government to ensure that it does not run out of money and at the same time provide adequate time for debates in this Parliament. 
It is difficult to understand why the Treasurer claimed that the increases in salaries, administrative expenses and other services of the Commonwealth Public Service could not reasonably have been anticipated. It is clear that some Ministers have just been unprepared to accept the constraints of budgetary responsibilities in their desire to build up the capacities of their Departments and agencies. The Opposition has made continual reference to this over a considerable period, and I do so again today. The Opposition parties believe that the Government should reimpose the former growth limit on the Public Service as part of an overall program of fiscal restraint. However, we have always adopted a responsible attitude in opposition and, consistent with that approach, we will not seek to hold up the passage of this legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  on behalf of the Government, seems determined to try to set some kind of record in this place. It is not a record of which he or the Government should be very proud. It is a record of saying one thing and doing another. The way he is going about it I do not think that he will have any trouble setting the record if he has not set it already. He has given a classic example of his tactics this afternoon. The Minister came in and said that he had 3 Constitution Alteration Bills of great importance to Australia. I agree with him; they are of great importance; they are of great significance. But the next minute the Minister said that the House would be wasting its time if it debated these measures fully. In one breath he said that the Bills are important; in the next breath he said that we would 'be wasting the time of the House if we debated them fully. Perhaps the Government's attitude is shown clearly in its first effort to have the debates on the 3 Bills taken cognately. I ask you,  Mr Speaker:  What similarity is there between simultaneous elections and giving local government access to the Grants Commission. Indeed what similarity is there between having electorates based on population and the other 2 subjects that I have just mentioned? They are three entirely separate issues which will have a profound influence on the form of government in Australia and they deserve to be debated fully and they deserve to be debated separately. 
I realise that. The point I was making was that the Minister earlier said, firstly, that they were important and, secondly, that the House would be wasting its time in debating them fully. The Minister has recognised the individual importance of these Bills by not proposing a cognate debate. I can see that. But he has proposed a time guillotine on each one of them so that they will not have the full consideration of this House. They have been rushed into this House; they will be rushed out of this House before the people of Australia have had a full chance to recognise their implications. The one thing that we agree on is their importance. But we do not agree on the way in which we should deal with them. The people of Australia have a right to know how they will be governed and what the system of government will be. Here is the Government rushing the Bills in and rushing them out for purely political purposes. That is not a good way to govern a country and that will be recognised by the people of Australia when they next get an opportunity to say something about it. 
I recognise that the time that has been laid down for the expiration of the second reading stage of the first Bill is 8.15 p.m. this evening. I suppose that the Minister will say that my remarks are denying the honourable members who want to speak on the Bill time to raise the issues that they would like to raise. So I will not take up any further time in this debate except to put on record my utter disgust with the fact that these 3 important constitutional Bills will be considered in a matter of about 10 hours debate all finished in this House by 10 p.m. tomorrow night. When the people of Australia have an opportunity to voice their opinions on this sort of conduct I am sure they will do it. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has pointed out, this Bill is consequential upon the Supply Bill (No. 3) 1973-74 the passage of which through this chamber, the Treasurer will remember, received the co-operation of the Opposition. At that time I expressed some reservations as to why the measure had to be introduced and about what we considered to be an unwarranted action on the Government's part in requiring such a measure to be brought forward. But I do not intend to canvass the same ground again. The views of the Opposition were made clear at the time the Supply Bill (No. 3) was debated. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 4. 
The sums authorised by Section 3 of the Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-74 and by Section 3 of this Act to be issued out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, amounting, as appears by the First Schedule to this Act, in the aggregate to the sum of Three thousand, eight hundred and eight million, one hundred and forty thousand dollars are appropriated, and shall be deemed to have been appropriated, as from the 1st July, 1973, for the services expressed in the Second Schedule to this Act in respect of the financial year that commenced on that date. 
Amendment  (by  Mr Crean)  agreed  to: 
After '1973-74', insert ', by section 3 of the Supply Act (No. 3) 1973-74'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 5 and 6 agreed to. 
First schedule. 

<graphic href="087131197311211_81_0.jpg"></graphic>

Amendment (by  Mr Crean)  agreed to: 
Omit the Schedule, insert the following Schedule: - 

<graphic href="087131197311211_81_1.jpg"></graphic>

First schedule, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report  -  by leave - adopted. 
 Never before in my experience in this place has such widespread concern and widespread objection been expressed concerning any piece of legislation as has been placed before me as a Federal member of Parliament in respect of this Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5). I suppose I should not be surprised by such reaction because this Bill and its provisions affect almost every Australian in one way or another. In my speech I intend to refer specifically to the effect that the legislation will have on sections 57aa, 57ab, 75, 76 and 82 (3) of the Act. As honourable members will be aware these sections concern the accelerated depreciation rates and write off provisions referring to primary production. I think it would be fair to say that this Bill owes much of its origin to the Coombs report. The Coombs report gives as its reason for substantially altering the provisions of those sections of the Act to which I referred a moment ago that those sections have given an unnecessary stimulus to the activities of what are generally referred to as Pitt Street or Collins Street farmers. 
It is clear from studying the Coombs report that the withdrawal or the drastic reduction of the substantial concessions contained in these sections of the Act has been due to the anxiety of the Government to catch up with the activities of that form of primary producer. However, the fact is that the Government has been unprepared or unable to give a definition of a Pitt Street or Collins Street farmer. I refer to a question which I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in response to an answer which he had given, I think to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  I asked the Prime Minister to give me the definitions which he proposed to apply to those who were Pitt Street or Collins Street farmers and of those which he was pleased to refer to as genuine primary producers. In his anwer to the question of the Leader of the Country Party, the Prime Minister indicated that no genuine primary producer had suffered any disadvantage under the proposals introduced by his Government. 
When I asked the Prime Minister this question without notice, with characteristic modesty he referred it to the then Acting Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  being away at the time. The acting Treasurer went into a great rigmarole about the featherbedding - I think that was the word he used - of Pitt and Collins Street farmers, but as his answer proceeded it became clear that he was unable or unprepared to give any definition of what constituted a genuine primary producer as distinct from those classified as Pitt or Collins Street farmers. Leaving aside for the moment whether such a definition is possible, there is a need to examine the extent of the inuflence which these Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers have exerted over the Australian economy and, in this context particularly, the economy of the primary industry sector, vis-a-vis the genuine producer, because if this is not known how can the Government make a series of decisions having very serious effects on all primary producers, not only those whom it is pleased to classify as Pitt Street or Collins Street farmers? For example, the Government claims - this is expressed in quite clear terms in the Coombs report - that the abuses of the previous concessions by Pitt and Collins Street farmers were the cause of the withdrawal or drastic reduction of those concessions. It is therefore essential to know what proportion of primary production comes from these sources; otherwise, it is impossible to come to a considered judgment on whether the withdrawal of the concessions is justified. That is the first substantial point I make. 
The second is that, by its own admission, the Government either has made no attempt or is unable to get the information which would be essential for it to make a considered judgment on this issue. It is therefore selfevident that, in the absence of this information, the judgment was not a considered one. This judgment was not unique; it merely joins a long list of hasty, off-the-top-of-the-head decisions which have been made by this Government. But the great importance of this is that it will have a significant effect not only on the profitability of the operations of primary producers themselves but also on the cost of many food items to Australian consumers. 
I now turn to the cost of the concessions to revenue. As I interpret the Coombs report, the total cost is estimated to be approximately $27m. But I remind the House that the Government cannot or will not provide any estimate of how this amount is divided between those who earn their living off the land and those for whom their primary producing activities are a sideline; but there is a second and equally significant deficiency in the Government's approach to these issues. On 30 August - nearly 3 months ago - I placed a question on the notice paper to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  which consisted of 2 parts. The first part requested the detail of the depreciation rates applying to various items before and after the Budget. Since then these rates have been publicised, but I have not been officially notified of what they are through an answer to my question on notice. I think it would have been ordinary courtesy to inform me when the information was made available publicly. But that is not my main objection. 
The second part of my question is the most important. It sought details of the gain to revenue by the alteration of the rates of depreciation on each item. The sections of the Act to which I have referred - sections 57aa, 57ab, 75, 76 and 82 (3)  -  cover a very significant range of items. In the absence of any answer after nearly 3 months, I am forced to assume that the information is not available. Certainly it cannot have been available to the Government when it made its Budget decisions; otherwise, why could I not have been provided with the answer to this question long before now - indeed, immediately the Budget was delivered in this House? So I think it is reasonable to assume that we now know that the Government was unable to distinguish between those whom it wished to penalise by the introduction of this measure - that is, the Pitt Street farmers - and those whom the Prime Minister claimed in his answer to the Leader of the Country Party it did not want to see disadvantaged - that is, in the Prime Minister's words, the genuine producers. The Government did not even know the cost of each of its proposals. I put to the House that this is incredible. 
It makes absolute nonsense of the Government's oft repeated assertion that it would only take decisions after a most careful cost- benefit analysis of any proposals that it put forward. Here we have decisions which will have a direct effect on thousands of producers themselves and an indirect effect on millions of consumers in Australia through increased cost of production of food. The Government does not even know the basis on which it made its decision or, if it does know, it has not seen fit to inform me in answer to the question which has been on the notice paper for nearly 3 months. What a way to govern! It would be laughable if it was not so serious - serious because it has exposed the hopeless inability of this Government to appreciate, or apparently even to attempt to assess, the consequences of its policy decisions. 
In my speech during the Budget debate  i  drew attention to the inconsistency of the Government's approach. On the one hand, it acknowledged- that the only way to contain food price rises is to produce more food. Yet practically everything it has done since coming to government will discourage and. in some cases, remove altogether a producer's ability to increase his productivity by sound management practices. Nothing could illustrate this better than the removal of the write-off provisions for water conservation, soil conservation and fodder storage. Expenditure on these items is absolutely central to the safe - I emphasise the word 'safe' - increase of stocking rates and agricultural production generally. Nothing could be more central to the conservation of the nation's greatest asset, that is, the soil itself. How short-sighted can we get? The only conservation which will come out of these measures is storing up trouble for the Government which introduced them. 
What has been the cost to revenue of the water and soil conservation concessions? We do not know, and neither did the Government when it made its decisions. The same applies to all the other individual measures. There is no possibility of drawing up a table of priorities based on the cost of each proposal balanced against its benefits. There is just a blanket withdrawal of all concessions. 
Let me give another example of the gross inequities and anomalies which will result from this legislation. Let us take the case of a young man who has raised enough money to put down payment on a partly cleared block of bush land. It is not viable as an agricultural unit in the existing circumstances. But by hard work this man earns extra money, perhaps as a shearer, perhaps as a fencing contractor or by doing other similar work, and raises enough money to employ a contractor to clear the rest of his block and make it an economic proposition. I want to emphasise that a young man in that position is able to do this only if the money he pays to the contractor is fully deductible in the year in which he pays it. In other words, these are the only circumstances - it is the only way - in which he can become independent. It will become virtually impossible to do so under this legislation. It will be impossible for the battler, to use a good old Australian term, to become the owner of his own farm. 
I accept the Minister's interjection and will respond to it in this way: I have just described why I think it will be impossible for the battler to own his own farm. It will not be impossible for the man who does not have to earn his living off the land to spend this extra money on fodder storage, water conservation and soil conservation. He will be able to spend this money because he does not have to earn his living off the land.  His  land holdings are a subsidiary to his main enterprise which may be in some field of professional endeavour. They are the people whom the Coombs report says that this legislation is aimed at. They are the only people under the conditions now being imposed who will be able to take advantage of what minimal concessions remain - the people who do not have to earn their living off the land as opposed to those who do.  Sir, nothing  could illustrate more clearly the damaging effects of this legislation. Nothing could illustrate more clearly that the Government just does not understand the Australian ethic. This legislation will destroy what was a realistic and achievable dream of many young Australians. It gives me no pleasure to say that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and it stands as a condemnation of the Government that that will be the result of its legislation . 
Will the Prime Minister in future support the principle of shutting down any Commonwealth Government undertaking or enterprise when its employees break their contract of employment? 
asked the Minister for Overseas 
Trade, upon notice: 
Has any galvanised corrugated iron been sent to North Vietnam since 2 December 1972; if so, what quantities have been sent. 
Are there any contracts for the supply of this material to North Vietnam which have not been fulfilled; if so, what quantities are involved. 
Br J. F. Cairns - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Official statistics are only available until the end of August 1973, and indicate that no shipments of galvanised corrugated iron were made in that period to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. However, I have been informed that, under Australia's program of Special Aid to Indo-China, a shipment of 760 tons of galvanised corrugated iron has been recently made to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. 
This shipment, valued at approximately $153,000, arrived in Haiphong on 24 October 1973. 
I am unaware of the existence of any commercial contracts for the sale of galvanised corrugated iron to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What depreciation rates applied to the following items before the Budget introduced on 21 August 1973, and what rates are the current rates: land clearing, dams, earth tanks, silos and haysheds for on-farm fodder storage, woolsheds, other sheds, underground tanks, fences, piping for stock watering, shearing machines, galvanised iron tanks, concrete tanks, agricultural implements, trucks and tractors. 
What will be the gain to revenue by alteration of each of these rates of depreciation. 
Basically, the Airlines Agreements Bill 1973 and the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1973 provide for a greater rate of recovery, by way of increased air navigation charges, of the cost of providing facilities for the aviation industry. This action was foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech when he announced that it was the Government's intention to increase air navigation charges by 10 per cent as from 1 December 1973. The Treasurer also announced at the same time that the Government would seek to renegotiate the airlines agreement so that the constraint of a maximum increase in charges of 10 per cent per annum could .be removed in order to meet the target date of recovery of 80 per cent of expenditure by 30 June, 1978. The 80 per cent recovery aim could not have been met if the Government were limited to a 10 per cent increase in rate in any one year. The present recovery rate accounts for less than 50 per cent of the actual expenditure. 
The Government's aim is full recovery of those costs properly attributable to civil air transport. This is referred to in the 1961 airlines agreement and was the stated policy of the previous Government. I believe it to be a reasonable policy, although the intention to recover 80 per cent of costs within 5 years will lead to sharp increases in air fares. The Government has now renegotiated the airlines agreement with Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and the rate of recovery of air navigation charges has been increased to a maximum of 15 per cent a year. Therefore, instead of increasing the charges by 10 per cent from 1 December, they will be increased by 15 per cent from that date. I think that it should be pointed out that a factor in gaining TAA and ATI agreement to the amendment of the Airlines Agreements Act was undoubtedly the inclusion of the following provision in the agreement. It is paragraph 7, which states: 
Whenever the Minister is satisfied that because of the imposition of higher air navigation charges loss or loss of profit is suffered by the Commission or the Operating Company he will as soon as possible and to the extent be considers necessary to make good the loss complained of by the Commission or the Operating Company approve increases in either or both air fares and freight charges as the case may require. 
Landing charges in Australia for international aircraft, already the highest in the world, will also be increased by 15 per cent as from 1 December 1973. This is in line with the following new provision included in the airlines agreement, paragraph .11: 
In the implementation of its policy of full recovery of the costs of facilities properly attributable to civil air transport, the Commonwealth will increase the rate of air navigation charges to international operators by the same percentage as that applied from time to time in respect of the operations of the Commission and the Operating Company. 
As the present Government's policy of recovery is in line with what we asserted over the past years to be our policy, we are not opposing the main provisions of these Bills, and, as mentioned, the 2 major airlines have already agreed to the increases. However, I now come to the general aviation field, where there will not only be an increase of 15 per cent in air navigation charges but other costs associated with the operation of aircraft in the general aviation field will be doubled on some activities and increased by 66) per cent for charter aircraft. I interpose here that it has been a great suprise to the Liberal Party that it has received only one representation from an aero club over these increased charges, although the general aviation industry has expressed concern at the level of increases and particularly at the uncertain future facing the industry. 
As the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  would probably know, rumours are going around now that on top of the doubling of charges this year there will be a further doubling next year. The general aviation industry must know what the Government has in store for it so that operators can have some idea of whether they will be able to continue. This is an area where the Opposition believes that a more realistic and sympathetic approach should be considered by the Government. Australia has an unparalleled history of achievement in aviation. This has been due in very large measure to what is often called grass roots aviation; -that is the private owner, the aero club and the flying training orgainsation and, more recently, the charter operators, commuter third level airlines and the aerial agricultural operators. These sectors of the industry have all made a tremendous contribution to the development of aviation in Australia and indeed to our national development. It is worth remembering that general aviation flies by far the majority of hours in civil aviation in Australia. The latest figures I have show 1.1 million hours in a total of about l.S million hours. 
Australia has always been known as an airminded nation. Thousands of Australians have learned the skills, disciplines and joys of flying. However, the future of general aviation is in real danger if the Government insists upon recovering costs from this branch of aviation on the same basis as it intends to recover costs from the regular public transport or RFT operators. In fact, the working group appointed by the Minister has not been able to allocate the costs of operating our aviation system among the various categories of users - international RPT, domestic RFT and general aviation. The group made an interesting recommendation, namely, that the Government might consider a revised charge structure with separate charges for airport and airway facilities. This might prove to be a basis for a more equitable distribution of costs. I should like to emphasise that, whether this recommendation is accepted or not, the Government must realise that general aviation just cannot stand indefinitely rises such as will be imposed upon it by this legislation. 
The amount of revenue to be raised from general aviation is very small when considered in the context of the cost of operating Australia's aviation facilities, but the effect on the individual operators will be very severe and out of all proportion to the minimal increases in government revenue. I concede that the Government has made a concession of a rebate of 331 per cent for aircraft normally kept at locations other than government licenced aerodromes or locally owned aerodromes in respect of which government subsidy has been paid. I applaud the Government for that concession. Indeed, I think a greater incentive should be given to keep general aviation aircraft away from the secondary city airports such as Moorabbin and Bankstown which are already by far the most crowded airports in Australia. The Government would be doing the industry and the air safety record of this country a service if it gave every encouragement for owners and operators of aircraft to keep them away from the secondary city airports. 
I trust that common sense will prevail in relation to charges for general aviation. This is not a party political issue. It would be a tragedy if the Australian general aviation industry, which is just recovering from the severe recession it has experienced over the past few years, were to be sat back on its heels by being required to pay impossibly high air navigation and registration charges. The tremendously expensive facilities have had to be built not for general aviation but for the large and sophisticated passenger aircraft. Let us show some vision and encourage general aviation, in all its forms, to continue to expand its activities to the benefit of Australia as a whole. 
This Bill continues legislation that was introduced in 1971 by the previous Government. I think it should be put on record at this time that the Rural Committee of the Liberal Party of Australia had stressed since the late 1960s the need for a program of rural reconstruction. I think it is fair to say that the Committee was well ahead of its time. The legislation which eventually was presented to this House in 1971 followed closely the general recommendations which the Committee had been making for some years. It is reasonable to ask: Why should there be a rural reconstruction scheme and what is the need for it? After all, the process of adjustment in agriculture has always been going on. People leave the industry, people come into the industry, demands change, products fall out of favour and so on. So, in a sense, rural reconstruction is a natural and continuing process. 
But a really acute situation can be reached when there is a combination of a high rate of technical change and a drastic reduction in world prices for many primary prodoucts allied to rapidly rising domestic costs. When all those things happen at the same time the normal processes of reconstruction, such as I mentioned a moment ago, are unable to cope; in other words, the factors which lead to the need for reconstruction proceed at a faster rate than natural change can cope with them. Any government then has 2 choices. The first one is to let pure economic forces continue to operate. I do not think anybody would doubt that adjustment would take place if that were allowed to happen; but in a great many cases it would be adjustment at the cost of personal hardship and perhaps even personal suffering. 
The second choice open to a government faced with such a situation is to take action which can cushion the effects of the sudden drastic changes with minimum interference with the normal processes of change. That is the course which the Committee of my Party advocated some years ago and which was followed by the previous Government. 
There were 3 main features of the legislation that was introduced at that time. Firstly, it was designed to enable the consolidation of debts of farmers and to allow repayment to be made over an extended period and a concessional interest rate. Secondly, it was designed to enable those farmers whose scale of operations was too small for them to earn a reasonable living to expand their scale of operations by giving them access to long term finance, again at a slightly concessional rate of interest and originally to be repaid over 20 years. The third aspect of the scheme was the retraining and rehabilitation of those who could see no future for themselves in agriculture and were forced to leave the industry. 
The total amount appropriated for the scheme since its inception is now approaching $137m. That sounds like a lot of money. But it should be considered in the context of the total rural debt, which at the moment stands at well over $2,000m. 
 Gross. It is also important to realise that 75 per cent of the total amount appropriated for rural reconstruction has been made available by way of loans to the States and only 25 per cent by way of grants. So I want to dispel any misconceptions there might have been that the full amount which has been made available has been made available by way of gift or grant. Initially, in the very difficult economic circumstances in which the original scheme was introduced, it was natural that the great demand for the funds available should be by way of debt consolidation and I am informed that between September 1971 and October 1973 approximately two-thirds of all funds made available went into debt consolidation. In that time, there were almost 3,500 successful applicants for debt consolidation. For farm buildup, which accounted for the remaining one-third of the funds, there were approximately 1,600 successful applicants. 
The House will remember that when the original scheme was introduced it was on a basis that $10Om was to be made available over 4 years. But very wisely the previous Government accelerated this program and compressed the 4-year period into a 2-year period while leaving the amount of Si 00m unchanged. The present situation, of course, reflects the major improvement which has occurred in the rural sector since the scheme was originally introduced. I understand that the proportions now applying to applications for debt consolidation and for farm buildup have reversed - that is, about two-thirds of applications are now coming in for farm buildup and the remainder for debt consolidation. Nothing could illustrate the success of the scheme better than these changed proportions. I think it is now true to say that the scheme is really fulfilling the original objectives of reconstruction. 
One of the major provisions of the new legislation is that which requires the States to allocate for the purposes of farm buildup at least 50 per cent of the funds made available to them, unless they obtain the permission of the Federal Minister to vary that proportion. However, on the present type of application that is being received, there should be no difficulty in coping with that requirement. I have no doubt that should circumstances radically change, there will be a consultation between the Federal and State Ministers concerned to see what may be needed to be done about the situation. 
It is interesting to note that the third aspect of rural reconstruction, the rehabilitation aspect, has attracted only 147 successful applicants since the scheme was originally introduced. In its original form, of course, the rehabilitation loan was only $1,000. Last year, the Government increased this to a more realistic figure of $3,000. But the very small number of successful applicants for this type of loan perhaps indicates that we need to look closely at the retraining and rehabilitation provisions of the scheme to assess whether they are adequate and whether they are fulfilling the role that was originally envisaged for them, that is, to provide a not overgenerous scheme for those who are unable to continue in or choose to leave agriculture to enable them to become skilled in some other occupation and to earn some money while they are undergoing retraining. 
It is also worth noting that last year in the review of the scheme which took place at the same time as the rehabilitation loan was increased, the maximum term for the repayment of the farm build-up loan was increased, from 20 years to 30 years and I think that indicates the very real requirement which exists for financing the operations of primary producers on terms which take account of the inevitable long term nature of much of that form of investment. Such long term finance would enable a producer to ride out the inevitable wide fluctuations which will occur in his income and his seasons. I am informed that at the current rate of application the $3 6m which will be available this year, $24m of which will be provided in the calendar year and the remaining $12m which will be available for approvals which will carry over into the following year, will be adequate. I trust that that will be so. I assume from the second reading speech which was delivered with the Bill that while the term of rural reconstruction will extend to 30 June 1976, the actual allocation made available each year will be the subject of discussion on a yearly basis. I think that is quite a reasonable provision to make. 
The next point I make, and which I should like to emphasise, is that there will be a continuing need for some form of rural reconstruction scheme. The very factors which I mentioned a moment ago, namely, the rapid rate of techical change and the tremendous increase in domestic costs due mainly to inflation, will make it increasingly difficult for many producers to stay in agriculture without some form of special assistance, and it is extremely important that this form of assistance should be flexible and able to take account of possibly quite rapid changes in circumstances in rural industry generally or in particular sectors of it. For example, some soldier settler schemes in the various States have not been as successful as others and some of the fruit industries at present are facing problems peculiar to them. 
This raises the' question whether it might be better to have one rural reconstruction scheme rather than several separate schemes. At the moment, we have the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme, we have the one that we are now debating, and we will have another scheme which was foreshadowed today relating to fruit. I do not make any judgment at present on this point but I think that some thought perhaps should be given as to whether for the sake of consistency and administrative efficiency there might be a case for putting all these rural reconstruction schemes under one roof, so to speak. 
With those suggestions and comments the Opposition supports this Bill. I. think the original legislation has fulfilled a most valuable role so far. It has enabled some thousands of producers to stay in agriculture who almost inevitably otherwise would have been forced out of agriculture, and I trust that the original concept of the legislation will be continued for the rest of the term of this Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
The Honey Export Charge Bill 1973 provides for a small export levy to be made on honey exports to help finance the operations of the Australian Honey Board. Honourable members who are interested in this subject will be aware that until now the operations of the Australian Honey Board have been financed by a levy on sales of domestic honey only. The Australian Honey Board how finds that it is unable to finance its obligations to the industry on the amount of money made available from the domestic levy. To enable it to fulfil its obligations properly the choice that the industry had was either to increase the levy on domestic sales or to introduce a small levy on exported honey. 
The reason why up until now the levy has been imposed on domestic sales only has been the very depressed state of the export market. Prices for honey on world markets have been very low. It was felt - I think rightly - that it would be an unjustifiable impost to put a levy on those very low prices. But, as is the case with the products of so many primary industries, in recent months the position has changed dramatically with respect to the export prices obtained for honey. They are now running at record levels - at quite extraordinarily high levels. I do not know how long we can expect those price levels to be maintained. But Australia is certainly now reaping some of the benefits of its promoting a very high quality product on the world markets. In those circumstances it seems reasonable to help finance the operations of the Australian Honey Board by the imposition of a small export levy. I understand that this proposal received the unanimous support of the Australian Agricultural Council. My inquiries have convinced me that it has the overwhelming support of the industry itself. So the Opposition will not oppose this legislation. 
I would like to draw one factor to the attention of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  It is perhaps not directly related to the legislation itself but it is certainly of vital importance to the future of the industry. I refer to the subject of export incentives. The present Government does not have a very good track record when it comes to export incentives. The honey industry is somewhat concerned that a very small export incentive it enjoys could be in danger. I refer to the export incentive that applies at present to retail packs. It is not a large concession but it is very important to the industry. My information is that its possible cost to the Government might be about $75,000 to $100,000 a yearnot a very large sum as money goes these days. It has been important to the industry because it has enabled the industry to build up export markets in certain areas in which it would have been very difficult if not impossible to do so without this concession. Those markets are in the Middle East, Malaysia, Mauritius and various African countries. There may be some others that I have missed, but it certainly applies to those countries. In the 2 major markets for Australian honey - the United Kingdom and Japan - the product is exported in bulk and the packaging is done in the importing country. So the concession does not apply to the major markets. It applies only to those smaller countries. But they are important in that they have enabled this Australian product to get to a far wider range of consumers than otherwise would have been possible. 
I draw the Minister's attention to the importance to the industry of the markets which have been developed. Perhaps they are not so immediately important because of the very buoyant prices applying in the major markets, but should there be a substantial downturn in world markets the relative importance of the smaller markets which we have been able to develop will become greater. Therefore the disadvantage which the industry would suffer should the export incentives be withdrawn would be correspondingly greater. Having voiced that concern, I hope that the Minister will be able in his summing up to give the industry some encouragement in that regard. The legislation before the House has the support of the Opposition. 
I am pleased that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on behalf of the Government has accepted these amendments that he has just mentioned, particularly in regard to the pecuniary interest provisions of the original Bill which could have prevented experts, particularly in the field of primary industry, from making a full contribution to the work of the Industries Assistance Commission; also in regard to the wise decision to make financial assistance other than by way of tariff or import quota operate for 2 years instead of 12 months. The amendment which I think will have the most far reaching effects will be that which permits a phasing in period for the mandatory references for primary industry. I congratulate the Government on accepting this amendment because it is vitally important for the future reputation and success of this Commission that it should have full and adequate resources to deal with primary industry issues. 
This will be a new area for what will now be the Commission - formerly the Tariff Board. It is only natural that it will take some time for the necessary support staff to be assembled to enable the Commission to do the first class job which we expect it to be able to do in respect of primary industries - a field in which it has not had to deal before to any extent. We believe that this phasing in period will enable it to get itself organised in such a way that, when the major primary industries references are made to it, it will be in a position to give full and considered reports on them. It would have been a great tragedy had the Commission been forced in too much of a hurry into tackling jobs for which it was not really adequately prepared. For all those reasons we are pleased that the Government has accepted the amendments. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to establish an Apple and Pear Corporation to replace the old Apple and Pear Board. There are a number of related Bills which have just been referred to by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  which will be debated together. The related Bills are the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill, the Apple and Pear Export Charges Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Bill. Despite these titles, I should like to impress on the House that they do not involve changes in the stabilisation scheme or in export charges at this stage. These Bills seek merely to alter existing Acts to conform with the replacement of the Apple and Pear Board by the Corporation. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills, nor the establishment of the Corporation itself. 
However, we would point out that the main legislation is yet another example of the wide gap between the Government's promises and its performance. There are no lack of promises - at least, before the election - but there is a distinct shortage of performance. I refer to the statements of the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and others prior to the last election. I am glad to see the honourable member for Wilmot in the chamber. They promoted the idea of a statutory marketing authority with full powers in this area in conjunction with an improved stabilisation scheme. Without debating the rights or wrongs of a statutory marketing authority of this type, the point is that the Government has not done what it said it would do and primary producers are getting sick and tired of this Government saying one thing and doing another or, even worse, saying something and then refusing to do anything at all. 
It is important to realise that the proposed corporation will have very wide powers, including trading powers in certain circumstances. However, my reading of the legislation is that the Corporation will have these powers involving the actual handling and selling of growers' produce without any ultimate financial responsibility to the growers. We are told in the Bill and in the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development that the Corporation may - I stress the word 'may' - have its borrowings guaranteed by the Government. But as I read the legislation - I will be interested to hear the Minister's comments on this - there will be no obligation on the part of the Government to underwrite the borrowings of the Corporation. It seems as though the Government, while giving great and extensive powers to the Corporation, is unwilling to assume a corresponding responsibility to protect the interests of the growers. 
My next point relates to the question of the revaluations of the Australian currency during the last 18 months - I stress that 'revaluations' is the plural form of the word - and the matter of compensation to the industry following those successive revaluations of the currency. 
From memory the original revaluation was back in 1971 and there have been 2 revaluations since then. Allied to steep rises in freight costs, these revaluations have put the industry in a very difficult position. My information is that approximately $850,000 has been paid to the industry as revaluation compensation. This amount is considerably less than the amount of 30c a case involving 4 million cases which had been mentioned by the Government. I am well aware that the Government put certain restrictions and conditions on the payment of compensation which may have been responsible for a lowering of the total amount payable. But the point is that when a figure of 30c a case involving some 4 million cases was mentioned, it was not unreasonable for the industry to assume that a sum of about $1.2m would be involved in compensation payments. The amount of 30c a case related to one of the earlier revaluations, but my information is that to date only $850,000 has been paid. 
Freight rates are, of course, critical to the profitable operations of apple and pear exporters, especially in Tasmania which has such a large proportion of its apple production exported. However, the Government has done nothing about adjusting the stabilisation scheme to take account of the circumstances that I have just outlined. I note with some interest that the Corporation will have power to negotiate freight rates and its success or otherwise in this field will have a corresponding effect on the industry. 
I come now to yet another example of the irresponsible attitude shown by members of the Party which is now the Government. Prior to the last election, several Government supporters in Tasmania continually stressed that if they were in government the grower representatives to the statutory marketing authority, which they had outlined would be established under their government, would be elected by the growers themselves. But what happened? We find that, under this legislation, all the grower representatives will be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  from names put forward by the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association. Again, I am not making a judgment on whether or not that is the best way of determining who represents growers on the marketing authority. I am merely using this point to illustrate my argument that primary producers just cannot trust this Government or its supporters when they outline a course of action which they say they will pursue. 
This may be an appropriate opportunity to mention the collegiate system of election of grower representatives to marketing boards, as practised in New Zealand. The Opposition has been studying with a great deal of interest the practice of New Zealand growers in this regard, particularly with respect to the New Zealand Meat Board and the New Zealand Wool Board and it may be time now to look at what our colleagues across the Tasman are doing. 
I am just saying that we are looking at it now. The collegiate method of election may have some application in the Australian context. If honourable members opposite feel that it has some application in the Australian context, they might have con:sidered using that method of election of grower representatives to the Corporation rather than breaking their word and having the Minister appoint the grower representatives. Before the election, they said that growers would elect their representatives themselves. That is all I am saying. 
Because we regard the Government's approach to the issues I have mentioned as being unsatisfactory, on behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading and while supporting the establishment of an Apple and Pear Corporation this House deplores the failure of the Government to provide - 
immediate financial assistance by way of proper compensation for loss inflicted on exporters in the 1973 season by revaluations of the Australian currency; 
adjustment of the stabilisation scheme to provide for increased costs and freight rates; 
a guarantee to growers for cost of export for the current season, and 
elected representation of growers to the Corporation as promised by its spokesmen prior to the last election.' 
Since this Corporation will virtually be appointed by the Minister, it is reasonable to assume that he would have full confidence in it. However, apparently he is not prepared to back his own judgment. Clause 7 (3), which gives the Minister complete power to direct the Corporation, states: 
The Corporation shall comply with any directions given to it by the Minister with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. 
The Opposition is unconvinced by the reasons given in the Minister's second reading speech for including these powers in this legislation. We believe that if the Government sets up such a corporation the corporation should be regarded as competent to undertake its functions. Accordingly, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  will be moving on behalf of the Opposition to delete clause 7 (3). 
The Apple and Pear Stabilisation Act and the export powers conferred on the Federal Government by the Constitution already provide completely adequate safeguards in this respect. One aspect of the legislation which has the complete support of the Opposition is the emphasis given to research and promotion both in the legislation itself and by special mention in the Minister's second reading speech. In particular, research into new products made from apples and pears seems to hold great possibilities. In the case of pears there are the additional outlets which could be provided by perry wine - that is, wine made from pears- dried pears and liqueur pear brandy. Those who have had the opportunity to try high quality perry wine I think would have been impressed by this product. I have had the opportunity to sample dried pears from the Shepparton area of Victoria. The pears had been dehydrated by a process developed locally and I feel that if more research were put into the commercial application of this process and more effort put into the promotion of the ensuing products it could well lead to a whole new market for pears. Of course a product of this type does not need special refrigeration in transport or anything of that kind. It is easily transported. It is light and it is an extremely high quality product. 
I am informed that there is a great demand in Europe particularly for liqueur brandy made from fruit products. If the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who is at the moment handling the Bill in this House looks through the departmental files he will find representations from me in respect to those products. It is true that we need some flexibility on the part of the Australian Government in its attitude to excise and in regard to the size of stills from which the products could be made. But it seems extraordinary to me that we are neglecting a field which I am informed by people who have been to Europe is open to any high quality supplier, because the demand is greater than can be supplied by European products. In the case of apples I suppose the greatest opportunity lies in the production of cider and possibly other products as well. But here again, because we have not had the stimulus to test out these markets, the markets have been lost by default. 
We have a high quality product in Australia. Surely it should not be beyond our ability to devise ways and means of selling it. The Opposition wishes the Corporation every success in its efforts to carry out these challenging tasks in the field of research and promotion. The Corporation has our support but we believe that the Government has been negligent and dilatory in its approach to the urgent and immediate problems of the industry. Accordingly I have moved the amendment. 
This Bill is one of a number of metric conversion measures which alter the unit for a charge from a ton to a tonne. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, but we 'believe we should point out that there will be a slight rise in the levy, since a tonne is slightly less in weight than a ton. We do not regard that as important in itself; but, as with so many other metric measures including postal charges based on metric weights introduced surreptitiously by this Government, the effect will be to raise costs to the industry concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 The purpose of this legislation is to enable the Federal Government to regulate and administer Australia's fisheries resources to the benefit of the fishing industry and the country as a whole. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. We commend the Government for accepting the reasonable and sensible amendments which were moved by the Opposition in the Senate. These amendments were directed towards the mandatory forfeiture clauses and retrospectivity. Both these aspects of the legislation were objectionable in principle. Retrospectivity is objectionable for obvious reasons because such legislation involves penalties being imposed for something which at the time it was done would not have attracted those penalties. The mandatory forfeiture provisions, which in the Bill as originally presented provided for the automatic forfeiture of any foreign boat, catch or equipment if a court records a conviction under the Act, are a more complex issue. We do not deny that in certain circumstances forfeiture of catch, equipment or the vessel itself could well be justified. For example, flagrant abuses of our law or persistent offences could lead the court to impose such a penalty. But we say that the court should be allowed to have some degree of flexibility. There could be cases with extenuating circumstances in which the court would not want to order forfeiture. Honourable members should remember that we are talking about vessels which could be worth $500,000. In cases where penalties of such severity were inappropriate mandatory forfeiture could result in gross inequity. We therefore believe that the court should have the discretion to order forfeiture if it thinks fit. 
I would like to make it quite clear that we would support forfeiture in cases where the offence is of sufficient gravity to warrant such a penalty. Before the Opposition Parties came to their decision on this issue the Opposition committee which deals with this subject went to great trouble to ascertain the attitude taken by other countries. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the results of our researches compiled from information supplied by the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Primary Industry. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Does he consider the action of  Mr McLeod  in holding a loaded pistol in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last week was justified? 
Last week the Queen opened this Parliament. This was an occasion which gave great pleasure to all members of the Parliament and to all Australian citizens. But the motion that is now before us, and others which according to the blue sheet are to follow, reveal the insincerity of this Government. Prorogation of the Parliament means a new beginning for the Parliament. It wipes the notice paper clean. It is now quite evident from the motion proposed by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. 
Cairns) and the other motions which are listed on the blue sheet that the Government is merely rehashing its previous legislation. There is nothing new about it. The prorogation is now revealed as a sham, because the Government is only going back to square one, to where is was when we rose last year. 
The Opposition will not be taking these motions to a division, but that does not mean that we approve of the Government's action. I would like to put our views on record. One thing is already clear and is further evidence that nothing has changed. Even after only a couple of days of this new session we had proof yesterday that the Government intends to use its numbers quite ruthlessly to stifle debate and to push through legislation irrespective of the proper role of this Parliament. Yesterday we had the absolute farce of Parliament voting almost continuously for something like 3 hours due to the Government applying the guillotine to 5 Bills to alter the Constitution. This was legislation of fundamental importance. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Farrer quite rightly points out, even though the times of divisions were set out clearly on the notice paper, one Bill had to be recommitted at a later hour yesterday because Government supporters did not attend a division in sufficient numbers. 
The Parliament will shortly debate the Address-in-Reply to the Queen's Speech which was made consequent on the prorogation of the Parliament. Many members of the Opposition, and I have no doubt many supporters of the Government, will want to speak on that Address-in-Reply. Yesterday's performance indicates quite clearly that the Government is liable to restrict debate on this very important issue as well. Should we force divisions on all of the motions listed on today's blue sheet to indicate our displeasure at the Government's insincerity, it is obvious that many members who would wish to speak will not be given the opportunity to do so. It is for that reason, and that reason only, that we are not taking these motions to a division. What I have said indicates that we certainly do not approve of the Government's action and why we do not approve. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
All that I had to say about the other motion applies in the case of this motion. I would like to take up a couple of points put by the 
Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Firstly, if I heard him aright, the Minister alleged that the time given for debating these measures when they were last before this Parliament was the greatest that had ever been allowed for debate. 
You did not? I am sorry. I was about to say that I have a clear recollection of a Bill that was under the control of my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  - the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, during our time in Government. It certainly received longer time in debate than the measures to which the Minister has referred. I should like to clear up one point in relation to my use of the word 'insincerity'. I make it clear that I was not referring specifically to the Minister for Overseas Trade or this piece of legislation; I was using it to expose the insincerity of the Government in proroguing Parliament. Proroguing Parliament wipes the slate clean. One is supposed to start again with a new beginning. All I was pointing out was we are not starting with a new beginning at all; we are starting where we left off last time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I think it should be made clear that the procedures being followed are in accordance with the Standing Orders. The question of the Government's intention is disregarded. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I merely wish to put on record that my remarks on the other motion apply to this motion. 
This motion provides further evidence of the truth of what I was saying a moment ago. Having wiped the slate clean the Government is now busy writing it up again in exactly the same form. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  spent virtually all his time speaking about superphosphate. I want to refer to a wider field than that. However, I feel that I should reply to some of the comments he made. The Treasurer said: 'Why should superphosphate be singled out as a special case?' Obviously, the Treasurer is ignorant of a paper, which is shortly to be published, coming from one of the Government's own authorities, and which shows a definite close correlation between the price of superphosphate and the amount which is used. If we raise the price of superphosphate, people will buy less; that is the short message to be gained from the report. The Treasurer then went on to say that the superphosphate bounty benefits the large farmer most. But of course, what he does not realise is that although the large producer buys more superphosphate his rate of application per acre is almost certainly lower. The small farmer must make every acre of his property produce. He may. use less in total but his per acre application will be higher than that of the large farmer and it is this farmer, the small farmer, who will be hardest hit by the reduction or the abolition of the bounty. As a proportion of his total costs, the cost of superphosphate to the small farmer will assume frightening levels. If he uses less, his income is affected far more on a percentage basis than the income of the large farmer. Certainly, the larger producer will be able to get by because his gross income will allow him to. He has the area which enables him to reduce his production and still make a reasonable living. The point I make is that it is the small farmer who must make the most of every acre on his property who is going to feel hardest the abolition of this superphosphate bounty. 
It really is an extraordinary debate on primary industry when we do not have one Government primary producer on the list of speakers. I suppose that is not surprising because the Government does not have a primary producer within its ranks. So, if the Government had had to rely on its primary producers to speak in this debate, it would not have been able to put anybody up at all. But what is surprising is that the Government has not put anybody up who represents a rural electorate. This is an extraordinary situation. The only explanation can be that any Government supporter representing a rural seat would commit political suicide if he stood and tried to defend the Government's rural policies. I do not think the reputation in this House of the Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  is one that could be based on reticence, but where is he today? There is not a sign of him. There has not been a peep out of the honourable members for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  Hume  (Mr Olley)  and Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  I am sure that they are all fairly bursting to get up and defend the Government's rural policies. 
Australia's primary producers have learned how to cope with fire, with flood and with drought. They have learned that, on occasions, they must pull in their belts at times of low prices. This is all part of Australian rural life. It is not easy, but primary producers have learned to overcome these difficulties. What they do not know how to deal with and what they cannot cope with is an ignorant government headed by somebody who, in the field of primary industry, is the most ignorant of the lot. 
No, it is not only in the field of primary industries, but I am specifically identifying primary industry today. There was that famous quote from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam):  'You have never had it so good'. Was he not aware of the devastating droughts which had hit virtually the whole of eastern Australia and severely affected parts of Western Australia from 1964 to 1972? Was he not aware of the years of rural recession that sometimes occurred at the same time as droughts? I despair of a government that is led by a man who shows so little knowledge of the problems faced by rural producers. Those years of drought and those years of low prices have meant accumulated debts by many properties that are not going to be effaced by one or two good seasons. They are going to take a long time to eradicate. Rural producers will need sympathetic and understanding policies to enable them to do so. The combination of revaluation and lower prices in America has led to the ludicrous situation of America, which is our largest market for meat, selling meat to Japan, which is our second largest market for meat, thereby undercutting our own beef. 
The greatest contribution which any government can make to primary industry is economic stability and responsible government because exporters live and die by the combination of export prices and domestic costs. Of course, in the field of export prices their returns have been lower because of revaluation and in the field of domestic costs, with an uncontrolled rate of inflation, their costs have been rising at a frightening rate. That is what has happened under a government whose leader has said that no government has done more to reduce costs. Whatever reduction there has been due to cuts in tariffs and to revaluation making imports cheaper has been engulfed by rural incomes being reduced, as I mentioned a moment ago, by revaluation and by a domestic economy that is completely out of control due to economic mismanagement and incompetence. The Government is now in a position where it is finding that it is impossible for it to pay for the programs it promised prior to the election. The Government just does not know where to turn at the moment to raise the money that will enable it to pay for those programs. It is short of money. For example, the achieving of the objective of raising pensions to 25 per cent of the average male weekly earnings is receding because of the vast costs involved due to inflation and the enormous demands on revenue. 
Where is the Government going to get the revenue to pay for these things? Let us have a look at some of the measures it has taken against primary industry and then have a guess at where it hopes to raise at least some of the money to pay for its extravagant programs, lt is just a short list. By the elimination of the supply of free milk to school children the Government hopes to save $12m. By a reduction in the bounty on butter and processed milk products it hopes to save $9.8m. The Government took those measures without conducting any prior inquiry to ascertain what effects they were going to have on the rural communities involved. That was the action of a government which was never going to make ad hoc decisions concerning primary industry. There was no inquiry in relation to those 2 measures. By abolishing accelerated depreciation measures the Government hopes to save $12m. By abolishing tax concessions for water and soil conservation work and the provision of fodder storage it hopes to save SI 7m. There was no inquiry. The Government did not even know the economic consequences of the withdrawal of those concessions. By abolishing the investment allowance as it affected primary industry the Government hopes to save $8m. By the measures it took in relation to the meat inspection service and the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns - not that I am complaining about those two - it hopes to save a total of $20m. By reducing the concession on the price of fuel in country areas the Government hopes to save another $3m. Finally, by the abolition of the superphosphate bountythe Government hopes to save $58m. By my arithmetic a total of roughly of $140m is involved. There will be no prizes for guessing who is going to pay for the Government's extravagant promises. 
I find the Government's attitude to be incomprehensible. The rate of productivity improvement in primary industry, about 4 per cent, is double that of the national average. In the face of difficulties being experienced by no other section of the community that is a phenomenal performance. If all other industries were to show a similar achievement most of our national problems would be well on the way to solution. Yet this ignorant Government is doing its best, and unfortunately succeeding, to put more and more obstacles before and to place heavier and heavier burdens on Australia's most productive industries. I wonder what any overseas observer would say if he were to come here and find that the Government is putting these burdens on industries which are the best performers, perhaps better than their counterparts anywhere else in the world, certainly better than any other section of Australian industry. He would think that such a government was ignorant and stupid and he would be quite right because that is exactly what this Government is. 
The Opposition supports the reconstitution of this Committee. It believes it has fulfilled a useful role in our attack on the problem of road accidents. However, I draw the attention of the House to the previous comments I made in relation to the prorogation of Parliament and the Government re-establishing items on the notice paper which were there in the previous session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Airlines Equipment Act 1958-1973 by substituting metric terms where appropriate. The Opposi tion is treating this merely as a metric conversion measure. Whilst the legislation does refer to the respective aircraft capacities required by Trans- Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd on their competitive and non-competitiveroutes, and therefore concerns the very basis of Australia's 2-airline system, the Opposition does not regard this as an appropriate occasion to debate these issues. Accordingly we do hot oppose the passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The main purpose of this legislation is to make provision for the future program of research and promotion in respect of Australia's greatest primary product. There has been a long history of co-operation between the industry and the previous Government in this field. As honourable members will be aware, there has been a joint fund into which both industry and government have contributed for the purposes of research and promotion. This, of course, is not the only fund of this type. Similar funds exist in many of our primary industries. This is one of the great constructive co-operative contributions of industry and government. Over the years, these funds have made a tremendous contribution towards expanding markets for our products and improving methods of production and the standard of the products themselves. In primary industry the function of such funds is particularly important because such a large proportion of our production is exported at ruling world prices. Our production has to compete on the world market unprotected. It has, therefore, always been considered reasonable by governments of all complexions that both government and industry should contribute to these funds. 
As I mentioned earlier, the purposes of this particular fund are related principally to research and promotion. However, a further sum will be available from the fund raised by the tax on wool growers plus the government contribution to pay the. administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation. This is a minor amount compared with the sums which will be made available for research and promotion purposes. An amount estimated at $1. 7m will be required for the next year. It is as well that primary producers and their organisations should be aware of the administrative costs involved and should recognise that these institutions do not run for nothing. They have to be paid for by the industry concerned. My personal belief is that wool growers have got quite remarkable value for their money in the cost of running the Australian Wool Corporation. I think it is also a tribute to the administration of the Corporation that whereas its estimated cost for the current financial year which will finish on 30 June this year is as I understand it$1. 8m, in actual fact the cost will probably be nearer to$1.6m. The amounts forecast for the period of this legislation over the next 3 years have allowed only a very moderate increase of $1 00,000 per year. 
The 2 main functions, as I mentioned a moment ago, of the tax on gross proceeds of wool are to finance wool research and wool promotion. I think it is true to say that in the last couple of years we have seen, or have begun to see, the results of research projects which are inevitably long term in nature, and promotion activities which although perhaps not so long term in nature inevitably cannot show an immediate return. When speaking of the research I am thinking of such research as that which went into machine washable garments, the development of non-fade pastel dyes incorporating drip-dry characteristics in woollen garments and work of that nature, much of which I am pleased to say and as I am sure you will acknowledge,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  has been done in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's wool-textile laboratories at Belmont in Geelong. With the final result of this research now becoming apparent in the type, range and variety of garments and uses of wool which are now appearing on wool markets, we are now starting to see a return for our money. 
It is always difficult to put any precise figure on the results or the benefits which are obtained from the money spent in research because they will not be reflected immediately. But I think that the industry as a whole in Australia would agree that the immense efforts and dedication of the wool research scientists in recent years are now starting; to be reflected in a very tangible way in the returns that wool growers are getting from their products, and perhaps even more importantly in the much wider range of uses to which wool can be put and the much greater extent of easy-care characteristics which are being incorporated in wool garments. 
It is probably even more difficult to identify with any precision at all the results of the money that has been spent in the field of promotion. But I think that what we can say is this: It used to be said that the price of competing fibres would always put a ceiling on the price of wool, that is, that the wool grower and the wool trade could not expect to extract more from the market than the market was prepared to pay for wool's competitors. For some years this appeared to have a good deal of truth in it. Indeed, we heard such authorities as  Mr Vines  and others telling us on the basis of the best advice they could get at the time that wool growers returns would inevitably be tied to some extent to the price of competing fibres. 
I think that the success of the promotional activities, particularly in respect of the Inter- ational Wool Secretariat, can be gauged by the fact that even though wool prices have risen quite dramatically in the last 18 months to 2 years it is still possible to clear out of shops the woollen goods made from that higher priced wool. The ultimate test is whether one can sell the goods to the consumer. In the last 18 months we have been able to do so. I think that all sections of the industry have to be very much aware that this happy situation will not continue of its own accord. It has to be fostered and encouraged, and that is going to cost money, quite a lot of money - in this case money put into promotion. 
Australia historically has been the greatest contributor to the International Wool Secretariat's funds, and that is a reasonable proposition because this country is the largest producer of wool. But I think it would be very dangerous to delude ourselves that the present reasonably satisfactory prices for wool existing at the present time will continue if we do not continually lay emphasis on promotion. After all, every other major product, whether it be textile or anything else, has to be promoted in the market place. I cannot see any reason at all why wool should be an exception to this rule. Indeed, I am quite certain that it is not an exception to this rule. We would reduce expenditure on promotion at our peril. 
For some time now the International Wool Secretariat has been pointing out that due to increased costs and world wide inflation its effective funds available for promotion were not increasing at anything like the rate necessary to enable it to do the job which it felt it was able to do and should do. As a result of those representations the industry has agreed to the provisions for increased funds which are outlined in the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in this place. The industry has accepted the substantially altered basis on which the Government and the industry will contribute to this fund in the coming 3-year period. These joint industry government funds have nearly always been provided on a $1 for $1 basis under which the Government would match with $1 each $1 contributed by the industry. 
In the current situation it has been possible for the industry to meet its commitments by a tax on the gross proceeds of wool imposed at the rate of 2.4 per cent. As I explained a moment ago, this tax covers not only research and promotion but also the administrative expense of running the Australian Wool Corporation. As the Minister points out in his second reading speech, at current wool prices the existing levy of 2.4 per cent on gross proceeds would cope with the increased requirements of the research and promotion budgets. But, I think wisely, provision has been made to increase the rate of the levy to 2.75 per cent. As the House would be aware, the existing legislation makes provision for a maximum rate of 3 per cent so that the new level does not need fresh legislation as such. It is a measure of the industry's concern over these issues that this increased levy has been unanimously approved by the major federal wool growing organisations and also by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
As I mentioned a moment ago, while a levy of 2.4 per cent would be sufficient under existing prices, the lifting of the levy to 2.75 per cent should result in a surplus at the end of the next financial year. This will be carried forward quite properly in a trust fund to be used for the same purposes in the succeeding year. I point out that this is in marked contrast to the action which was taken by the Government when it first introduced the meat levy to pay for meat inspection charges and the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. There was no provision in the legislation, until the Opposition rectified the position, for a trust fund to be set up. I am happy to acknowledge that in this case proper provision has been made for money raised by the levy which is surplus to the requirements of the particular year to be carried forward into the next year. 
I should like to discuss very briefly the situation which might arise if wool prices fall substantially. When wool reached its rock bottom price a few years ago there was a major change from the traditional $1 for $1 contribution to the fund. In those circumstances my Party felt it reasonable, when the wool industry was really fighting for its very existence, that the Government should contribute $2 for each $1 contributed by the industry so that essential research and promotion projects for which continuity is absolutely vital would not suffer. It is important to realise that the industry's contribution is a rax on gross proceeds, so that when the price of wool falls the receipts from the levy fall correspondingly. In those disastrously low price years the Government contributed $2 for each  $1  from the industry. Happily the situation has improved since then and we have got back to the old $1 for SI situation. As I understand the legislation that method of contribution will be maintained for the next financial year starting 1 July 1974. After that there is a substantial difference in the method of financing. The Government, recognising that research makes a contribution to the national well-being, has thought it right and proper that it should bear 75 per cent of the cost of research compared with 25 per cent from the growers. On the other hand, because it can be reasonably argued that benefits from promotion flow more directly to the producers than to the nation as a whole, the industry should contribute 75 per cent of the costs of promotion and the Government 25 per cent. According to my arithmetic,- by the end of the 3-year period, this method will mean that instead of a 50-50 contribution the rate will be approximately 60 per cent industry and 40 per cent Government. Under the existing economic circumstances the industry accepts that commitment as reasonable. 
I come back to the point I made a moment ago: What happens if the price of wool falls very substantially? The revenue raised by the tax is directly geared to the gross proceeds of wool. As I understand it if the gross proceeds of wool fall below about $800m a year, the statutory limit of 3 per cent on gross proceeds may not be sufficient to provide the budget which has been estimated as necessary by both those engaged in research and those engaged in promotion. In that case I agree that the Government would have to come back to thos Parliament to get approval for a tax rate higher than 3 per cent. On behalf of the industry I should like to make the point: When the industry struck trouble before our Government was prepared to ensure continuity of research and promotion programs by increasing the Government's commitment beyond that of the industry. If prices should fall substantially in the future and if the statutory 3 per cent levy on gross proceeds was insufficient to cover the requirements for research and promotion, we on this side of the House, and I am sure the industry also, would expect an equally sympathetic appreciation of the situation by this Government. I have to say in all honesty that the track record of this Government does not give us any degree of confidence that the industry would get an equally sympathetic consideration from it. 
We on this side of the House will be watching very closely indeed. If a grower's income falls quite substantially but his wool tax commitment is increased to make up the short-fall in the requirements for research and promotion, it will represent a much larger proportion of his total revenue. Should the price fall far enough it may be a very heavy impost on the industry and on the individual growers. Having made that position quite clear and acknowledging that the existing legislation makes provision for a 3 per cent tax, we, in association with the industry bodies concerned, do not oppose this legislation. We merely make it clear that should circumstances arise which make it necessary to increase the tax beyond the 3 per cent allowed in the existing legislation, we will be expecting from the Government of the day a reaction as sympathetic as the industry received from us when prices fell to disastrously low levels. 
On behalf of the Opposition I should like finally to pay tribute to the dedicated research scientists not only in our own Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation but also in Ilkley and in the Ichinomiya centre in Japan for the truly wonderful job they do on behalf of the wool industry. Having had a chance to see the work of the research scientists myself, I am convinced that they play a most valuable role in preserving wool as a major textile fibre of the world. They play a most valuable role in their research and promotion fields in ensuring that the Australian wool grower gains the benefit of new techniques and new technology. I am hopeful that the benefits will be translated into the grower's pocket by way of increased prices. I think it is fair to say that recent experience shows us that a lot of the fundamental work which has taken so many years to come to fruition is now showing tangible results and I trust that the wool prices remain at a level which will not require the projected tax levy of 2.75 per cent on gross proceeds to be exceeded. The Opposition agrees with the broad level of recommended expenditures under the 2 main headings of this legislation. 
The Opposition accepts that this is an error in the Bill, not so much in drafting as in printing. We have no objection to the amendment. 
 This Bill transferring jurisdiction for Papua New Guinea fishing boats is relatively short but its implications are considerable. It is only in fairly recent years that Australia has become aware of the fisheries resources around its coast. It is only fairly recently that we have discovered some of the most profitable resources, such as the prawning ventures which were referred to earlier in this debate. Like Australia, Papua New Guinea is an island, and many of the comments which apply to Australia apply also to Papua New Guinea. Just as in this country the fishing industry is one of the most rapidly developing primary industries, so I am sure the development and exploitation of the fisheries resources will be important to Papua New Guinea. Historically the industry in Papua New Guinea has been a fairly simple one - simple in the sense of the equipment which has been used until now. As in Australia there is a growing emphasis on larger vessels and more sophisticated equipment, this change in emphasis will apply to Papua New Guinea, although perhaps not to quite the same degree. Gradually the purchase of more sophisticated equipment and the training and the experience which the fishermen will receive will enable them to exploit their own fisheries resources to a greater extent than has been possible previously. Of course historically these resources have been a considerable source of protein in Papua New Guinea, and that will continue. But if experience along the northern Australian coast is any guide - I am sure that it is - there must be considerable opportunities for Papua New Guinea to develop and expand an export industry in fisheries products. (Quorum formed.) 
As I was saying, there will be every opportunity for Papua New Guinea through development of its fisheries resources not only to make a valuable contribution to its own food supplies but also, if experience in northern Australian waters is a guide - I said I thought it would be a guide - to develop export possibilities for the fishing industry. I hope that the eventual result will be that this industry will make a great contribution to the economy of that country. Certainly in the earlier days of independence Papua New Guinea will have difficulty finding the research funds which will be necessary to determine all that needs to be known about its fishing grounds, the types of fish available, their habits and so on. It is also true that a great deal of the research in Australian fishery resources is being carried out in waters adjacent to Papua New Guinea "waters. My friend and colleague the Deputy Leader of the 
Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned this in his speech. With all that research going on up there, basically for our own purposes, I hope that as results that could be valuable to Papua New Guinea become available the Austraiian Government will see to it that that country is kept informed of the latest results of our research in those waters so that in turn Papua New Guinea can benefit from it. No doubt eventually Papua New Guinea will initiate projects of its own, but in the early days I believe that Australia can make a valuable contribution without any additional expenditure of money - merely by seeing that what benefits we have gained from our research are, if applicable, communicated to Papua New Guinea. 
One of the problems that I imagine Papua New Guinea will face is that of meeting the export standards of many countries. Here again I imagine that our own Department of Primary Industry and perhaps the Department of Health could be of considerable assistance in advising Papua New Guinea on standards required in processing plants and the testing of samples to make sure that they comply with international world health standards. Inevitably that will be an area of difficulty for Papua New Guinea in its early years of self government. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
This deceitful, incompetent Government, now in total disarray, has reduced the proceedings of this Parliament to a quite ludicrous stage. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  wants to introduce for debate all these important Bills. I agree that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill are important Bills. We do not deny that they are important. But we object to the opportunity that the Government is now giving - this ludicrously short time - to enable a proper consideration to be given to the Bills. 
It is interesting to note that one of the pieces of legislation which the Government has chosen to introduce in this way is the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, because in many ways this piece of legislation exemplifies the authoritarian attitude of this Government. Let us have a look at the possible consequences of the passing of this Bill. As far as I can remember - and I will be interested to hear whether the Minister contradicts what I have to say - if this Bill were passed there would be a right of entry signed by a Justice of the Peace - not even from the dis trict concerned - where right of entry was desired. An instrument signed by a Justice of the Peace would give the Commonwealth Government power of entry into any property, whether it be of a company or an individual' Having got the right of entry the Bill would then give the Commonwealth Government power to remove practically everything - not just nominated minerals such as iron ore and bauxite. That piece of legislation gives the Commonwealth Government power to remove sand, gravel, soil, clay, rock and I think it refers to timber. In case the Government has forgotten anything at all, the legislation refers to any other material. 
That is the sort of legislation which this Government brings in again and which it asks this House to pass in approximately an hour - quite apart from consideration of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. The Minister referred to obstruction in another place. By heavens, if that is not the right role of the Senate, I have never seen anything mat is. This is a Bill which takes away the right of practically every landholder in Australia over his freehold title and which superimposes itself and takes precedence over all State legislation and all local government by-laws. Of course it is the duty of the House of review to put obstacles in the way of such an irresponsible piece of legislation passing through this Parliament. 
Then we have the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. I wonder how many people realise that this piece of legislation will affect the financial prosperity of a very large number of Australian people. It will affect the prosperity of everybody who holds any life insurance policies. It will reduce the value of those policies and also the value of the annual bonuses that the policies attract. This piece of legislation which the Government now reintroduces into this House - and I think, from memory, that the Government has given us approximately an hour to debate the legislation - will affect the pockets of practically every Australian. That is not apparent from the Bill itself - all sorts of high-minded principles are put into the Bill - but the effect will be to take money out of the pockets of every life insurance holder in Australia, in the capital value of their policies and in the annual bonuses which are paid on those policies. 
As I have said, this Government by its action this afternoon in introducing 3 Bills of fundamental national importance which affect the rights of the individual and the financial prosperity of every life insurance policy holder in Australia, and in allowing the time which it has allowed for debate has reduced government in this country to a farce, and the sooner the Government grasps the nettle that we have put in front of it and sends this Parliament to the people, the better it will be. The Government's actions this afternoon have demonstrated that it is not game to take the steps which will send this Parliament to the people. We have given an opportunity to the Government to do this, but all it does is to put up a quite ludicrous timetable for three very important pieces of legislation. 
The Government has completely abandoned all parliamentary practice by its actions this afternoon. It did not see fit to communicate to the Opposition or to the Parliament what it intended to do about these Bills that the Government is guillotining through, but it is quite apparent from what my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  quoted that the Government communicated its intentions to the Press. I think that that must come very close to contempt of Parliament because if it is fair enough for the Press of this nation to know the timetable of the Government in the Parliament surely to goodness it is fair enough for the members and the Parliament itself to know what the Government intends to do. 
Honourable members opposite should not talk about standover tactics. They are the very people who are standing over the Opposition and the Parliament itself. One of the speakers on the Government side said that nothing new could be said about these Bills. Nothing good can be said about them, either, not that we have a great deal of time in which to say it. The Government said that these Bills were fully debated. Let us have a look at what time was available. On the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill the time for debate on the second reading was 20 minutes and for the Committee stage, 10 minutes. On the National Investment Fund Bill 5 minutes was allowed for the second reading debate and 12 minutes for the Committee stage. On the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 15 minutes was allowed for the second reading debate and 12 minutes for the Committee stage. II that is what the Government considers full debate on matters of national importance it has very different definitions of national importance from those of us on this side of the House. 
Perhaps it is just as well for the Government's sake that it is limiting debate on these Bills. I have no doubt that that is exactly why the Government is putting such a ludicrous timetable on them. As I said a moment ago, while nothing good can be said about them, nothing can illustrate more clearly two of the most unpleasant aspects of this Government. The first aspect is its authoritarian approach not only to Parliament, as has been illustrated by its action this afternoon, but also to the citizens of this country. When I spoke a moment ago I used the illustration of the powers that the Government hoped to obtain had the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill been passed. It was entirely proper for the House of review, the Senate, to put a stop to that. Thank goodness it did. 
The second aspect which the Government does not want brought out in full and open debate - as illustrated by the time allowed for these measures when they were before this House originally and illustrated again by the time allowed today - is that the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund show the Government's determination to socialise this country and its industry by the back door. It is no longer acceptable to talk about socialisation of industry by the front door; the Government accepts that. The Government realises that the Australian people will not have a bar of it. So what it tries to do is to introduce legislation which will enable the Government to do it, it hopes, by the back door. So that people will not be fully aware of what they are in for, the Government tries to stifle debate on these measures. A moment ago the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  mentioned that we are in a time of unparalleled prosperity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I rise to speak in this debate with feelings of regret. It is a matter for regret that this motion has been moved. Any hope that we on this side of the House had that the Government would mend its ways has been destroyed. That hope has been destroyed, as my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned, on the first full working day of this Parliament. It is now obvious to the Parliament, and in due course it will become obvious to the Australian people, that the Government is determined to continue to pursue the course of making a farce of this House of the Parliament. It is clear that it is determined to stifle debate and to push through legislation without any regard for parliamentary democracy. 
Here, after a double dissolution, we are facing a unique constitutional situation with the probability of a joint sitting of the Houses for the first time in the history of this Parliament. If ever full and adequate time were required for a parliament to argue out the issues before it, that time must surely be now. There can be no excuse for seeking to suspend the Standing Orders in these circumstances in order to force these history making Bills through this new Parliament without any hope of an adequate debate on them. There can r-e no excuse for this action. But,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I have no doubt whatever that the Government does have its reasons. The only reasons that I can discover for its action do the Government no credit. It is obvious that the Government does not want the Australian people to hear a full debate on these issues. It is essential that these Bills be fully debated. Included inthe legislation for which the Leader of the House seeks a declaration of urgency are Bills which are quite fundamental to the future form of government in Australia and to fair and adequate representation in this Parliament of all sections of the community. Certain of the Bills are fundamental to the future structure of the Senate. That means that they are fundamental to our bicameral system of government. 
Certain pieces of legislation are fundamental to the future of the health care delivery system in Australia. Those of us who were members of the last Parliament are well aware that the Health Insurance Commission Bill and the Health Insurance Bill which are to be reintroduced contain many features common to the health scheme in the United Kingdom. Anybody who has read our newspapers in the last day or two will appreciate the extraordinary mess that the health scheme is in in the United Kingdom. It is essential that this Parliament at this time be given adequate opportunity to relate what is proposed in the health care system which this Government is trying to force on to the Australian people to the problems which are only just starting to reach such an acute form in the United Kingdom. Those who read carefully the provisions of the Petroleum and Mineral Authority Bill which is also on the list of those Bills to be reintroduced will realise that its provisions threaten the very future of freehold land in Australia. That fact will not cause members of the Government any worry - I realise that - because fundamentally they are opposed to the freehold land system in Australia. But an adequate debate on each of those issues is essential. For those reasons I join with my colleague, the honourable member for New England, in opposing this motion which seeks to suspend the Standing Orders in order that these most important Bills may be declared urgent Bills. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put - 
That the question be now put. 
I found it very strange to hear the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  speak in the terms that he did because if we cast our minds back a few years we find that in the 1930s it was the Australian Labor Party which opposed the establishment of the Legislative Council in the Northern Territory. I find that very difficult to equate with the high sounding phrases of support for the Northern Territory which we have just heard from the Minister for Northern Development. It also sits strangely on his shoulders to speak as he did when we realise that in 1972 when the Liberal and Country Parties were in government we made an offer of government advancement to the Northern Territory. As far as I am aware we have heard nothing of that offer since. What has happened to it? Where is the action from this Government on the recommendations made by the previous Government to make further government advancement for the people of the Northern Territory? We have heard nothing more about it. 
Of course, I accept your ruling,  Mr Acting Speaker.  That reinforces another point that I should like more time to make and that is that these territorial senate representatives - I do not know whether they will be called senators - are merely second class senators. In fact, they are not true senators at all because, by the admission of this Government itself and by the text of this Bill, they are not counted for the purpose of determining the numbers in the House of Representatives. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I refer to the Minister's answer to a question yesterday when he said that the price of land in Canberra skyrocketed until the Labor Government came to power and that the price was now stabilised. Is the Minister aware that answers to questions on notice from my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Gwydir, have disclosed that since the Australian Labor Party came into Government the average delay for people wanting houses, family flats, and one-bedroom flats in the Australian Capital Territory has increased; that, compared to the year before, in 1973-74 the number of blocks available for town houses detached houses and flats decreased; and that compared to the year before - 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for a dam costing approximately $26.5m to augment the Canberra water supply. According to population projections there will then be sufficient water to supply Canberra until somewhere in the region of 1982 to 1985. According to the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  this dam is not likely to fill before 1977. As the existing water storages are only expected to be sufficient until 1975-76 Canberra could face a shortage of water during the years 1 976-77, especially if rainfall is below average in that period. It is thus apparent that even this large new dam will provide the water requirements of Canberra for only a relatively short period. I submit, therefore, that there is an obvious need for work to start on future requirements well ahead of the time when the Canberra population reaches the limit which will be provided for by the dam; that is, about 450,000 people in or around 1982. The Opposition expects an assurance from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development - I hope he is paying attention to this - that forward planning for the next stage of Canberra's water supply is well in hand. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. However, there are several unsatisfactory aspects of the legislation. 
No, we will not. 
It was under our Government that the initial planning of this dam took place. I am about to point out now several unsatisfactory aspects of the legislation, unsatisfactory to us and unsatisfactory to the Parliament, even though we do not oppose the Bill. The principal cause for concern relates to the environmental impact statement referred to in the second reading speech of the Minister. Where is this environmental impact statement? If ever a statement of this type were required this project requires one. From the Minister's second reading speech obviously serious issues are raised by the comprehensive statement which we are told has been prepared for the use of the Government but, apparently, it is not to be available to this Parliament. I refer specifically to 2 problems, firstly, the pollution problem caused by the. mine waste at the old Captains Flat mine and, secondly, the sewage effluent from Queanbeyan. But it is also clear that other issues require clarification and debate. In his second reading speech in the environmental context the Minister states:  . . . a number of areas . . . will require careful attention . . . 
I submit it is an absolute disgrace that Parliament does not have this environmental impact statement before it. How can honourable members properly debate this Bill? I am speaking not only for honourable members on our side of the House but also for the Parliament as a whole. I remind the House that the original concept of these statments was brought forward during our period in government. 
We did not have time. The point is that now the Government has a golden opportunity to table a statement. As far as I can see it has not done so. If ever one were required, it is required now. How can we in the Parliament as a whole properly debate this Bill without a statement? So much for the high sounding promises of open government and commitments to keep the community fully informed on government policies which affect it. The absence of an environmental impact statement with this legislation has exposed the Government as a humbug. I am surprised that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  allowed this Bill to be presented without the statement. I am pleased to see him in the House for this debate. But above all I am surprised that the Minister for Urban and 
Regional Development presented this legislation without a statement. The Minister has frequently claimed to be concerned with our environment and its conservation. To his credit, I personally believe that he does have a feeling and a genuine concern for these issues. But here is this great champion of the conservation cause presenting legislation with admittedly widespread environmental consequences knowing that in fact an environmental impact statement is in existence. Presumably he has had the advantage of seeing the statement. He comes into this House asking us to debate the Bill without tabling the statement. 
I gather from the interjection of the Minister that it has approximately 300 pages? 
I am sorry. I misunderstood. I thought it was 300 pages. 
It was not distributed to me. It was not distributed to anybody I know. 
I wish to make a very brief comment. I note that the environmental impact statement which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  was good enough to show me earlier has been prepared by the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of Housing and Construction. It seems to the Opposition that this looks a bit like Caesar sitting in judgment on Caesar. I merely wish to put on record that we have some reservations about such statements being prepared by the authorities directly responsible for carrying out the projects to which they refer. Apart from that, I thank the Minister for his courtesy in answering the various queries which I raised with him arising from his second reading speech. 
-In the limited time available to me, unfortunately it is not possible to deal with the hopelessly inconsistent speech of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen);  but anyone speaking at the end of a debate of such consequence as this inevitably finds himself in a somewhat invidious position. Therefore, I consider my role to be one of synthetising and expanding in some respects some of the arguments put by previous speakers. In particular my remarks will be directed towards the points raised by my friends and colleagues the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and Senators Wright and Carrick. This legislation demonstrates the essential hypocrisy of the Labor Government. On the one hand, the Labor Party platform states that the Labor Party stands for the abolition of the Senate. It is quite implicit. Everyone knows it. It has been in the platform for years. We of the Opposition do not agree with that proposal, but we understand it. 
It has become apparent through this debate that members of the Labor Party, while apparently agreeing with the policy for abolition of the Senate- every candidate from that side of the chamber has to sign a document accepting that platform- do not seem to want to understand it, although it is not difficult. That is the essential hypocrisy to which I referred a moment ago. The Australian Labor Party cannot be sincere about its platform and this legislation at one and the same time. It is self-evident that if members of the Labor Party sincerely believe one, they cannot sincerely believe the other. There is a further test which can be applied to the Government's sincerity. If there was one thing which this Government was keen on, it was referendums, or referenda according to one's taste. With what nostalgic envy must members of the Labor Party look back to those heady days immediately after Labor's election to power, when its confidence knew no bounds, when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  inordinately pleased with himself and puffed up with the sense of his own importance, was confidently proclaiming himself to be the greatest Foreign Minister Australia had ever had. 
The Labor Party proposed referendums on anything and everything, but a responsible Senate thwarted the Government's irresponsible attempts to subvert our federal system. The Labor Party, with this confidence born of arrogance, put referendum question after referendum question. Every one was rejected. Perhaps this was the first indication to the Government that the people of Australia were not prepared to trust it with any more power than it already had. How wise subsequent events have proved the Australian people were in rejecting this rash of referenda. Just think what the position would be like today if this incompetent, disorganised government, now in public disarray with half a dozen Treasurers and would-be Treasurers, had been given the powers for which it asked in these referenda. The point is that there was no reluctance to put referendum questions, at least on the part of the Prime Minister. Why did not the Labor Party put its own platform to test and have a referendum to abolish the Senate? If the Labor Party was sincere in believing its own platform, it had a moral obligation to put such a referendum. By its failure to put that question to the people the Labor Government repudiated its own long-standing policy and demonstrated its own hypocrisy to the electorate. This legislation now puts the seal on the Government's repudiation of its own policies. Instead of abolishing the Senate according to its platform, the Labor Party proposes to enlarge it. 
But what are the real motives? It looks to me like an example of not being able to have your cake and eat it too. Apparently the Government's real motives are to undermine the States. This legislation proves that the Labor Party is prepared to repudiate one area of policy in an effort to further its own aims in another. No less an authority than my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Moreton, with his usual felicitous turn of phrase, in most moderate and temperate terms described this legislation as an assault on the Australian Constitution and our federal system. It would not just provide territorial representation in the Senate, as envisaged by section 122 of the Constitution; it would also provide territorial senators who would have full voting powers in the Senate. It would substantially affect that part of the Constitution referring to the establishment and working of the Senate. 
Therefore this legislation is nothing short of an attempt to subvert the Constitution. I am not one of those who says that the Constitution should never be changed. The point is that we have properly established machinery for changing it, but this legislation is not part of such machinery. The Constitution stands quite apart from any other law or Act of Parliament, being a compact, as has been said in this debate before, between the Commonwealth and the States. Under this compact the Senate is the House of the States who therefore have the right to be consulted before any alteration, such as is proposed, is made to it. Passage of this legislation would deny the States the opportunity to make their views known on this issue. 
Changing the representation in the Senate in the way that the Government proposes could lead to the ultimate absurdity- the House of the States being controlled by representatives from the Territories. This would be a complete negation of our Constitution because we must not forget that if Territorial Senate representatives can be created by this legislation there will be nothing to stop the Government increasing the number in either the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, or the number of Senate representatives from other Territories as well if the Government believes that by so doing it could gain control of the Senate. This would make nonsense of proportional representation and totally destroy the ability of the Senate to act as a House of review. 
There are further basic inconsistencies in the legislation which need to be examined. For example, whilst it is proposed that representatives of Territories in the Senate should have full voting powers they would differ in important respects from other senators. A study of the speech made on 22 May last year by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  shows just how different they would be. They are to be elected differently. Their terms of office are to be different. We are told that section 24 of the Constitution is not to apply to them yet they are to attract to themselves power equal to those of the true Senate representatives of the States. I put it to the Parliament that the Government cannot have it both ways. It seems strange, putting it in the lowest possible key, to claim that these people would be full senators for the purposes of some sections of the Constitution- for example, section 22 and 23 relating to votes and quorums in the Senate- but not in others, for example, section 24 relating to the nexus between the number of senators and the number of members in the House of Representatives. I say this knowing that the Government has received advice on the point but how can you have a situation in which a representative is a senator one minute and not the next? 
When in government the Opposition Parties took the initiative in improving the representation of the Territories in this Parliament. During our time in government Territory representatives in the House of Representatives gained full voting powers. During our time in government we put forward proposals designed to give a greater degree of self-government to the Northern Territory. But what has happened to those proposals? Nothing. They have been swept under the carpet. All that has happened is that this Government has brought forward a miserable ordinance for the Australian Capital Territory the effect of which will be merely to change the title of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. This is a mockery. By the Minister's own statement this new Legislative Assembly will not have one extra power over the present Advisory Council. It is just a public relations exercise and a very poor one at that. 
We on this side of the Parliament shall continue to support responsible legislation having the objective of improving the representation of the Territories in this Parliament, as we did in the last Parliament when we supported the legislation to create another seat in the Australian Capital Territory. But we state very firmly that this Parliament has a wider responsibility- to uphold the Australian Constitution and to preserve the checks and balances of our Federal system and our bi-cameral form of government. This legislation is not consistent with those responsibilities. As I have described, it contravenes in important respects the basic principles embodied in the Constitution and the form and working of the Parliament. For all those reasons I oppose the Bills. 
That the proposed law, namely the Senate (Representation of Territories) Act 1973, be affirmed. 
Pursuant to rule 1 1 the Joint Sitting will divide. Ring the Bells. 
Question put. 
The Joint Sitting divided. (The Chairman-Hon. J. F. Cope) 
The Joint Sitting in division: 
I second the motion. This is a matter of great moment because of the state of the nation today. 
It relates to the consequences of the motion of dissent from a ruling. I draw the attention of the House to page 550 of the 'Australian Senate Practice', where a former Senate leader,  Sir George  Pearce, is reported to have expressed this view: 
When a government is challenged on a motion of censure, if the motion is bona fide and not merely put forward for the purpose of wasting time, the government under challenge does not proceed with legislation or with major acts of administration. That is the time-honoured custom in all countries where British Parliamentary practice obtains. 
I take up the Minister's interjection. Apparently he considers that the Opposition's efforts this morning to have a debate on the economy are a waste of time. The point is that we are talking now about the definition of acceptance', as I understand it, and this is related directly to your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  Standing order 1 10 states quite clearly that once a Minister accepts a motion of censure it takes precedence. Many honourable members, including myself, were in the House when the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  clearly indicated his recognition of the notice of motion given by the Leader of the Opposition as a motion of censure. So, as I understand it, what we are debating now is whether recognition of a notice of motion of censure, which was clearly done by the Leader of the House, constitutes acceptance of the motion. In view of the importance of this special sitting of the House and the opportunity it provides to have a full debate on the economy, I ask you,  Sir, to  reconsider your interpretation- because that is what it amounts to- of whether recognition of a notice of motion, which I think everybody agrees has happened, is an acceptance of the motion. 
We want to debate the big issues. The great issue facing this country today is the state of the nation and the state of the economy. That is exactly what we want to debate. That is the whole purpose of the notice of motion which has been given by the Leader of the Opposition. All I am asking you,  Sir, to  do is to interpret the recognition of a notice of motion of censure as an acceptance of the motion and then, following the practices of this Parliament, to allow the debate to proceed. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many people in the Geelong employment district are receiving special benefits due to retrenchment resulting from Government economic policy. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) What area of rain forest has been cleared for beef production purposes in the Tully District, Queensland. 
) What is the total area of rain forest in the District. 
-My association with the late  Mr Frank  Green does not gb-back for quite so long as does the Prime Minister's but it extends back to the mid- 1 930s when  Mr .Green  introduced me, as a very small boy, to the quiet pleasures, the frustrations and the skills of fly fishing in the Molonglo River. I shall always remember him for his many personal kindnesses to me. I express my sorrow and sympathy to his wife and relatives. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. When a farm property passes in direct succession to children or a surviving spouse, will the person or persons to whom the property is assigned be liable for capital gains tax in addition to estate and probate duties? If such people are liable, will the amount of capital gains tax levied be allowed as a deduction in calculating estate and probate duties? 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What are the Government's plans for the future of the space tracking station at Carnarvon, Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Has the offer by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to hand over the Island Lagoon tracking station been rejected by the Australian Government. 
If so, has this rejection been described by senior research scientists as a short-sighted move which is a blow to Australian space researchers and to the cause of fundamental research. 
What has happened to the 85ft radiotelescope at Island Lagoon. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he support the establishment of a fully representative consultative committee on child care in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Following the recent revaluation of property in the Australian Capital Territory, will he ensure that adequate machinery is available to deal promptly with appeals from citizens facing increases in general rates, amounting in some cases to over 100 percent. 
It is no reflection upon the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  or the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who I understand is to follow me in this debate, to say that it is a disgrace that the Government has not been able to find a Minister who is able or willing to speak on this matter of public importance. It is very significant that today we have seen a spectacle which I have never seen before in this House. We have seen the spectacle of a back bench member of Parliament leading for the Government on a matter of public importance because there just is not a Minister who is competent to defend the Government. In fact, as far as I know neither of the honourable members who will speak for the Government in this debate has ever even earned his living off the land. 
The words of this motion are most important because they demonstrate at the same time the Government's ignorance and its incompetence. It is almost unbelievable that a motion like this should need to be moved in an Australian Parliament. Australia as a nation is more dependent than most on export earnings. The Australian domestic economy is more dependent than most on primary industry. The fact that the Government has failed to appreciate this situation shows that it is quite out of touch with reality. Let us look firstly at the export earnings situation. Never has a government been as fortunate as the present Labor Government was when it came to power. Australia's balance of payments were in a sound position. The wool and meat industries were heading for bumper years. Wheat prices were at record levels. 
All those factors enabled the Labor Government to engage in huge increases in Government spending. But it forgot- or more likely it never realised-that the years 1972 and 1973 were just a breathing space for most primary producers and country businessmen. Virtually every part of Australia was seriously affected by drought between 1965 and 1971- some parts by the worst drought in the history of settlement. Wool growers were experiencing the lowest prices since the great depression. In 1972-73 farmers were just starting to make some impression on the crippling financial burden that they had incurred during those earlier years and country businessmen were just starting to pick up after the financial drought caused by the weather drought and the rural recession. This was the situation when Labor came to power. But then what happened? Displaying a frightening ignorance of the problems and realities of primary industry the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam ), in his famous quote, asserted that farmers 'had never had it so good'. He and his Government then deliberately set about making absolutely sure that the primary producer would pay the price for having had a couple of good years. 
The honourable member for Macarthur said that the Government was opposed to ad hocery. I remind him that his Government, without any inquiry by the very body which it established for the purpose- the Industries Assistance Commissiondestroyed just about every incentive the farmer had to increase his production and just about every measure designed to take account of the peculiar difficulties under which farmers have to operate. Worse than that, because of its total inability to understand primary industry the Government has put at risk Australia's ability to withstand drought and national disaster and years of work by farmers on soil conservation. How can any government, every a Labor government, have been so plainly stupid? This is the crux of the situation today- the reason why the Opposition has introduced this matter of public importance. The Government plainly has failed to concern itself with the economic position of our primary producers, but the day of reckoning must come and for the Government it may not be far away. 
Wool prices are no longer at high levels. In fact, taking into account the astronomical rises in costs since this Government came to power, it is doubtful whether the price guaranteed today is any better than the disastrously low prices of a few years ago. As someone has just said, it is possibly lower. Meat has fallen by over 50 per cent. Net farm income- this is the only figure in which the farmer is interested- will probably be down by 50 per cent this year compared with last year. Yet the Prime Minister says that farmers have 'never had it so good'. How many honourable members opposite, how many Ministers, would like to suffer a 50 per cent reduction in their purchasing power in one year? How many wage and salary earners would accept such a situation? The  President  of the Australian Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Ministers of this Government are asking unions for restraint in exorbitant wage demands. One does not have to ask farmers whether they favour restraints in their income. They have restraints without asking for them and restraints to an extent which no other section of the community has had to suffer. There is an apt quotation which applies to the present position. I hope every supporter of the Government will take note of it. It is: 
Realities are boring but they have a habit of catching up with politicians. 
As a result of this Government's incompetence and its total failure to concern itself with the deteriorating position of Australia 's primary producers, our international reserves are going down the drain- and going down fast. 
Whether Government supporters like it or not- their previous track record suggests that they do not like it- this Government will have to face reality. The reality is that the Government's policies are not only sending Australian farmers broke, they are also sending Australia broke. The greatest contribution that any government can make to Australian industry is to provide competent and responsible financial management of the national economy, yet this Government has given up any attempt to tackle inflation. What else can be said about a government which brings in a Budget which assumes a rate of inflation of over 20 per cent? Which increases Government spending by 32 per cent when every sensible person in the community knows that restraint in Government spending is a must if we are to get ourselves out of the mess we are now in? 
Having managed to reduce a healthy prosperous economy to chaos in less than 2 years, this Government is unwilling or unable- probably both- to take the necessary measures to get some sanity back into the economy. Guess who is being called upon to bear the main burden of this incompetence? There are no prizes for guessing right, not even any prizes for getting it right first time. The answer, of course, is the people who have 'never had it so good ', the people at the end of the line, the people who cannot pass on rises in costs and who have to sell their produce at what the world is prepared to pay for it- in other words, the exporter, particularly the exporter of primary products who still supplies more than half our overseas earnings. 
If there had been any last hope that the Government would finally come to its senses and show some appreciation of the role of primary industry in the national economy, that hope was shattered by the Budget. It contained nothing about a farm income reserve scheme long advocated, I remind the House, by the Opposition and, in fact, supported by the Government's own committee in its Green Paper on rural policy. It contains nothing about a long term credit facility specifically geared to the problems of primary production, again a plank in the Opposition's rural policy. But there is something in the Budget- a capital gains tax to be levied on top of probate and estate duties. To farmers beset by sky-rocketting costs and falling prices for their products that may be the last straw. This incompetent Government has given up any pretence at trying to overcome the economic chaos it has created. This capital gains tax finally demonstrates that the Government is determined to put so heavy a burden on the private operator that he will give up the unequal struggle and get out. That is the Government's objective because the independent operator, working for himself and his family, is the greatest obstacle this Government faces in achieving its socialist objectives. This is why a sturdily independent Australian electorate will throw the Government out at the next election. 
I have much pleasure in seconding the amendment moved to the motion for the second reading of the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  Before developing the arguments inherent in the amendment, I wish to refer to comments made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  in relation to the 250c per kilo clean guaranteed price which operates for the present season. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro alleged that this price was 44c per lb more than the price of 36c per lb guaranteed by the previous Government. That was the price guaranteed by the Liberal and Country Parties when we were in government and when wool prices were disastrously low. 
Two points need to be made in relation to that claim. The first is that under our scheme, when we guaranteed 36c per lb, any gap between the price actually realised below that figure of 36c per lb was met by the Government; there was no liability on the grower. In the present circumstances, any losses made as a result of the operation of the 250c per kilo clean price becomes a liability of the grower. I do not want to debate at this stage the rights or wrongs of that situation. I merely point out to the House that the present proposal is entirely different from the previous arrangement; they are not comparable. It gives me no pleasure to say so, but it is quite dishonest for the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to petend that they are comparable. 
The second point is that the disastrous economic policies of the present Government- or, rather, its disastrous abrogation of economic responsibility- have meant an enormous increase in costs, not only to the wool industry, of course, but to all Australian industries. But it is the wool industry about which we are talking at the moment. It is incontrovertible that since the Labor Government came to power there has been a huge increase in costs of production. I make this point: The grower is not interested in his gross return if, for example, his gross return is $10,000 but his costs are $10,500 In that situation the guaranteed price becomes only of academic interest to him. Therefore, again it is entirely dishonest for the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to allege that today's scheme and price are comparable to those of the years when the price of 36c per lb was guaranteed under the Liberal and Country Parties Government's scheme. 
Yes, I do care about the shearers. The honourable member for Kingston makes a good comment. There is a grave shortage of shearers in the industry. For many years, the grazing industry has been trying to get agreement on a scheme which would enable an apprentice system to be introduced for the industry. It has my complete support and, I am sure, that of the Opposition. We are acutely aware of the need to encourage young men to enter this industry. 
The main purpose of the first series of Bills is to make provision for the future of financing research and promotion for Australia's greatest industry. There has been a long history of industry and government co-operation in this field. A joint fund has been established, as has been done with respect to many other primary industries, usually on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis. It is quite reasonable that the Government should contribute to such a fund, firstly, for the very reason I mentioned a moment ago, that is, that this is our greatest industry. It is a major export earner. But it also has important and diverse effects through the economy itself. So, it is good business from the points of view of the Government and the community for the Government representing the community to contribute to this fund. 
I also bring to the notice of the House the fact that included in the costs which the levy on growers has to meet is the cost of the administration of the Australian Wool Corporation. It is wise to mention this fact to remind growers that such organisations do not run for nothing. They must be paid for. In this instance, and I think properly, the organisation is paid for by the growers. It is up to them to ensure that they get good value for money. I believe that in the Australian Wool Corporation the growers have had good value for money and I hope that they will continue to get it. 
We are beginning to see, although it is impossible to put a precise value on them, some of the results, inevitably long term in nature, of the expenditure in the past on research and promotion. The honourable member for New England mentioned some of the developments which have taken place, such as machine washable wool, drip dry characteristics, fast pastel shade dyes and similar advances, nearly all of which, I remind the House, have been initiated within Australia. It is difficult, if not impossible, to put a precise figure on the value of that work. But there is general agreement throughout all sections of the industry, not only among the growers, that the great dedication of Australian scientists and research workers, and their colleagues overseas, is now showing results. It has been shown possible that the nexus between the prices of synthetic competitors with wool and wool itself can be broken; in other words, that a quality image for wool can be established which enables wool to command a premium price over other fibres. But there is a need for a continuing research effort. Research which is hampered by not knowing whether it will receive finance next year or the year after is inevitably inhibited. There is a need to enable those carrying out this research work to have some guarantee of future income- I am talking of the International Wool Secretariat in particular now- to enable them to undertake the programs which they should undertake. 
As a consequence of this legislation, the industry has agreed to raise its contribution for research and promotion, much of which will go to the International Wool Secretariat. Because wool prices have fallen, and even taking into account the guaranteed floor price, the question now arises: Will the 2.75 per cent levy be sufficient? We know that, under the legislation, it is possible to increase the contribution to 3 per cent. The growers naturally are hopeful that this will not be necessary. In the second reading speech which he delivered on this legislation last year, the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  indicated that in the first year of this 3-year program, as before, Government and industry would contribute to the fund on a $ 1 for $1 basis. The Government subsequently would increase its proportionate contribution for research while reducing that for promotion. 
The point I raise now is the relative responsibilities of the industry and the Government for the first year. I refer to page 60 of the attachments to the Budget Speech which shows that the expenditure for 1974-75 for research, promotion and other expenditure on wool will be $44. 3 m. We know, according to the legislation, that there is a limit on government expenditure for 1 974-75 of $22m. Obviously the balance requires, near enough, a $1 for $1 contribution by the industry. I draw the attention of the Minister to the estimates of receipts and summary of estimated expenditure of the Budget, as shown on page 29 of Budget Paper No. 4. It shows that the expenditure for Wool Industry- Promotion and Research (Act 1972-73) in 1974-75 will be $49m. By legislation the Government's contribution is limited to $22m. If the total expenditure is $44m the Opposition has no argument as the money will be supplied on a $1 for $1 basis. But if the total expenditure is to be $49m and the industry is required to contribute, therefore, $27m, the money will not be supplied on a $ 1 for $1 basis. We hope that the Minister will be able to explain this, otherwise the Opposition will probably find it necessary to move an amendment making the position quite clear. 
The net effect of the new legislation will be, by the third year, to lower the Government's contribution. Instead of being on a 50/50 basis it will be on the basis of a 40 per cent contribution by the Government and a 60 per cent contribution by the industry. As I mentioned before, the amount raised by the levy is directly proportional to the proceeds from the sale of wool. With declining wool prices, not only does the question arise whether sufficient funds will be available for the International Wool Secretariat, but also the point arises of whether this will be too severe an impost on the industry itself on a time of declining prices. I remind the House that when prices reached a disastrously low level before, the Opposition Parties when in government came to the decision- quite a right one in my opinion- to make a $2 for $1 contribution during the time of the industry's difficulties. I hope that a similar sympathetic approach will be shown by this Government should the net returns- I emphasise the words 'net returns'- fall to a dangerously low level. 
I turn now to some of the other Bills that we are debating in this very complex debate encompassing 7 Bills. I refer to the proposed 5 per cent levy on growers to finance the possible losses on the Australian Wool Corporation's trading operations. I emphasise again that this is a quite different levy from the previous one which I mentioned and which was on a joint industry and government basis. This is a grower contribution. There is no corresponding government liability. A lot of nonsense has been written in the Press lately about the Government's using taxpayers ' money to prop up the wool industry. The reports are confusing 2 things. First of all they are confusing the fact that no government contribution is involved in the 5 per cent levy; secondly, they are confusing the fact that the $ 1 50m advanced to the Australian Wool Corporation by the Government is a loan and not a grant. Not only that- the industry has to finance that loan at current rates of interest and by the levy it has to meet any losses which might be incurred by the Corporation as a result of its buying-in activities. This emphasises the basic philosophy of the Australian Wool Industry Conference and its Wool Policy Committee in particular. It is the firm intention of the Conference, and it always has been, to maintain the Australian Wool Corporation as an autonomous body. This is quite vital if the industry is to continue to be the master of its own destiny. 
The Australian Wool Corporation had no reason to suppose that the finance required for its operations would not be available from normal commercial sources. The only reason it is not available from normal commercial sources is the disastrous economic policies of this Government. I need to refer only to the savage discriminatory attitude and the measures taken by the Labor Government against primary industry in general. Now, probably by mistake, the Government finds itself financing the operations of the Australian Wool Corporation. It is not surprising, in view of this record, that the Opposition has grave reservations about the wool industry's going into pawn to this Government. Therefore we have moved the amendment in the terms given by the honourable member for New England, the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. I have much pleasure in seconding it. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What metric conversion programs have been completed. 
What has been the estimated cost of each of these programs. 
What metric conversion programs are partly completed. 
What has been the estimated cost to date, and the estimated cost of completion, of each of these programs. 
What metric conversion programs have yet to be started. 
What is the estimated cost of each of these programs. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) When is it proposed to commence construction of the permanent Occasional Care Centre to replace the present Occasional Care Centre in Alinga Street, Canberra City. 
Could the present Occasional Care Centre remain open until the permanent centre is completed without recourse to the use of temporary premises that had been proposed. 
What Occasional Care Centres are planned for future construction in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What steps have been taken or are being taken to ensure that there is community participation in the choosing of appropriate sites and the landscaping design of the playground well in advance of the building construction. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Does the Minister agree that weather forecasts broadcast from radio stations and those issued for aircraft and marine operations play a most valuable role in preserving life and property in times of natural disaster and in the safety of the day to day air and sea operations over and around Australia? If so, why has it been decided to cut down the number of daily weather forecasts? Has he consulted with his colleague the Minister for Transport on the safety aspects of this decision? How much does the Minister intend charging radio stations for the privilege of broadcasting weather forecasts? Will the Australian Broadcasting Commission be charged the same amount? 
-In the very limited time available to me it is obviously not possible to canvass all the issues involved in the Australian Capital Territory, but in view of the speech made by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  a moment ago, I want to refer specifically to the child care program before I get on to the main topic of my speech, which will be housing in the Australian Capital Territory. I will give the Special Minister of State the benefit of the doubt and assume that he did not know the legislation about which he was speaking because if he did he was dishonest. If he did not know what he was talking about he should not have spoken in the terms he did. I would like to make it quite clear that the child care program - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member should know better. He should be discussing the items before the Committee. The proposed expenditures before the 
Committee are those for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Capital Territory. 
I would like to discuss for a moment the child care program. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is not in order. 
I would like to discuss child care in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member must relate his remarks to the Australian Capital Territory. 
I will indeed, because under legislation introduced by the former Government and which the present Government is enactingand such legislation indeed applies to the Australian Capital Territory- there are 3 criteria which determine the eligibility for assistance under the child care program. The first is that the centre applying for' assistance has to give preference to children in need. The second criterion that has to be met is that the centre must be open to all children and not merely children of any particular category such as employees of a factory. I refute absolutely the allegation of the Special Minister of State, who said that the system was designed to help employers. The third criterion which has to be observed in getting assistance under the child care program is that the organisation applying for it must be a non-profit organisation. If a firm has a creche or kindergartencall it what we will- for its employees, it has to incorporate that as a non-profit body before it is allowed to apply for any assistance. It was a disgraceful performance by the Special Minister of State to try to allege that the program of child care was other than on the lines I have just outlined. 
In the time remaining to me I should like to refer to housing in the Australian Capital Territory. Under the Liberal and Country Party Government there was a continuing development in the production of land made available for building and for housing. A high level of government housing construction was maintained mainly because we allowed the private sector to build an increasing proportion of the houses. Under Labor the construction of government housing has already declined substantially from a total of 965 units in 1972-73 to about only 800 units in 1973-74. The Opposition believes the rate of construction of government houses must be increased to accommodate more rapidly all those currently on the waiting lists. Under Labor the completion of serviced land for detached houses increased by only 7 per cent in 1972-73 compared with 20 per cent the previous year. This, together with the sharp decline in construction of government houses, has led to a great pressure on available resources to cope with Canberra 's rapidly growing population. 
It is not surprising that people are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain suitable accommodation in Canberra. Rents have soared because of this pressure. The excuses given for this poor performance include inadequate supplies of labour and materials, industrial unrest and wet weather. Government policies were certainly responsible for the first two but I must accept that despite its obvious delusions of omnipotence and omniscience it is not responsible for the third. The average cost of housing rose by about 25 per cent a square- a direct reflection of the disastrously high inflation rate throughout the economy. I understand that the honourable member for Canberra, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  gave an undertaking that 1,500 detached houses would be built last year. The total housing figure achieved, as I mentioned a moment ago, was about 800, of which 686 were detached houses. What are the promises of this Minister worth? They are worth nothing more than the promises of this Government in all fields. They are worth nothing. The actual performance was well under for the reasons I have stated. The next year's target is 1,400 or 100 less than last year's target. That seems extraordinary in the light of the present acute shortage of houses, because housing is a fundamental requirement in any city and in one developing at the rate of Canberra it is a vital factor in the city's growth. 
Above all, proper provision must be made for housing for those transferred to Canberra. The Opposition believes it should be the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government to provide adequate housing for compulsory transferees. The Labor Government has failed to meet the crucial test of housing in the Capital Territory where it has direct and clear power and cannot blame the States, multi-nationals or some other bogy. The Government has a duty to step up the provisions of housing, particularly through the expansion of the construction of government housing and through incentives to private operators. There cannot be any excuses m this area. The Government has failed and has dishonoured its promises to the people of the Capital Territory. This is emphasised when it is realised that the Government has planned to provide Public Service office accommodation costing about $80m over the next 3 years. As I have pointed out on previous occasions, the 
Government has its priorities back to front- $ 80m for office accommodation for 12,000 public servants and, at the same time, a reduction in its housing target. Since 2 August I have had a question on notice to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant).  I take this opportunity of drawing his attention to it. It is question No. 901. 1 will not read it fully but part (2) of it reads: 
What is the estimated decrease in demand for housing resulting from the above decision? 
Incidentally the words 'and office accommodation' should have been included after the word 'housing'. The decision referred to was the Government's decision to put a ceiling of 2.6 per centum on the growth of the Public Service. I have not had an answer to that question. I also have on notice a question relating to the average price charged for government housing over the last 5 years. I have not had an answer to that question. My point is that the Government has been proved incompetent in this area. 
If the Minister wants another illustration I will give it. Another illustration of the Government's ineptitude is the situation concerning housing loans. Confusion has now been compounded through a means test which is not only discriminatory and arbitrary but is also hopelessly unrealistic. Because of the interest rates applying according to earnings, many people will be put in the ridiculous situation of not being able to accept a rise in pay since doing so would result in them paying over 4 per cent more in interest. At the same time only about 25 per cent of applicants will be eligible for loans because of the criteria applying, but what happens when, as envisaged by this Budget, average weekly earnings rise by 22 per cent this year? The percentage then eligible will be so small as to be irrelevant. The latest move will do practically nothing to improve the situation of 3,000 families now looking for accommodation in Canberra. I believe the Minister has his heart in the right place. The great pity is that he cannot translate his good intentions into sensible actions. There just is not enough accommodation available even for those willing to pay more than the average rent. I note a reference in the 'Canberra Times' to one agent who said that he had 100 houses available at this time last year but now he has five. 
Yes, five available in September this year. This is a reflection on the rent assessment system in Canberra where investors feel they are not able to get a reasonable return on their outlay. They stop investing. It is typical of the Government's philosophy of putting quite impossible conditions on private enterprise and then blaming private enterprise for not being able to do the job. It is the new technique for achieving nationalisation and socialistic aims. It is a lot more insidious than trying to get in through the front 'door. Approximately 13 per cent of all - . 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Very great difficulties are confronting what has come to be regarded regrettably as the traditional house seeker- the married couple. It is dangerous, however, for policy planners to concentrate all their attention on this traditional aspect of the housing market. I particularly draw attention to the needs of single people in the Australian Capital Territory. I believe far too little attempt has been made by this Government to come to grips with the very difficult problems that single people face, and the need to adopt policies in all areas including housing to assist them. In many ways single people moving to Canberra give up more than residents who come as a family. The environment they face and the life style to which they are required to adapt is unique. They lose the benefits of having immediate family relatives and friends with whom they have grown up. Approximately 13 per cent of all people seeking accommodation in Canberra are single. 
The Liberal-Country Party Government set up hostels in the Australian Capital Territory as low cost accommodation for single public servants. Over the last 12 months tariffs in those hostels have increased by 55 per cent or about 3 times the rate of inflation. This is putting hostel accommodation out of the reach of many young people. It has also been reported to me that standards have fallen. I submit that this is just not good enough. The figures suggest that the management is not nearly as efficient as it should be. I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  to institute an immediate inquiry into the running of Australian Capital Territory hostels. Many young married people who come to Canberra have the advantage of regulation 97 of the Public Service Act, but a similar concession is not available to single people. 
I believe that every opportunity should be taken to encourage open dialogue with the young people in Canberra to establish their needs. I believe that the Minister should appoint an advisory panel of youth workers and young people in Canberra, with representatives from hostels, to advise him regularly on the needs of single people in Canberra. I believe that the Minister should be devoting much more attention to the area of co-operative housing which can provide a very attractive and less financially burdensome way for young people to attain some independence without committing themselves to some of the burdens of the traditional suburban home.  Mr Speaker,  the Government claims that the Australian Capital Territory is the social laboratory for its policies throughout Australia. I do not approve of such an attitude, but at least it demonstrates to the people in the rest of Australia what is likely to happen to them if the Government stays in power. The disastrous results which so far have been confined to the Australian Capital Territory would become general. They will not become general because fortunately the Government will not be in power much longer. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Space Research Section at the Weapons Research Establishment received international recognition for its radio astronomy work, particularly on the behaviour Of quasars. 
Has the Government closed down this Section. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What quantity of meat has been flown from New Zealand to Brisbane during the last 12 months. 
What types of meat have been involved. 
-The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has indicated some action he has taken in respect of some sections of the meat industry. But that is not good enough. Time is running out. Detailed papers are all very well, but they will not help in the present crisis situation. There must be a comprehensive attack on the present problems of the meat industry. This year many Australian meat producers are not facing just a reduction in incomes- all of them are facing a reduction of the order of 40 per cent to 50 per cent- but also many producers are facing the prospect of no income at all. The fact that this is a unique situation is no help to those who are involved. After a period of some years when the meat industry was virtually the only primary industry whose prices were keeping pace with costs we now have a situation in which of all primary industries it is the worst off. This rapid change in circumstances should not go unnoticed by the Government and the industry. It highlights the sort of problems which inevitably will arise if, as the Australian Labor Party Platform states, we assume that it is possible to tailor production to meet realistic market demands. As so often happens, unusual circumstances make nonsense of such a policy. 
The situation that the cattle industry is in today is due partly to the years of low prices for wool and sheep, the high cost of running sheep, and also wheat quotas. These have resulted in a huge increase in national cattle numbers. Fortunately this coincided with a world wide strong demand for beef. But the Australian beef industry is vulnerable: Firstly, because over half our * production goes in exports and, secondly, because our ability to sell in the major markets is not determined always by consumer demand but frequently by political decisions in the countries concerned. That also is worth remembering in the present context. Whether Australia has access to payable markets will depend largely on domestic political pressures in the countries concerned. If we put barriers on trade from those countries which buy our meat we can expect some form of restriction in return. 
But the present situation, as I mentioned a moment ago, is a crisis. Whilst the Government has a responsibility to negotiate access to markets, that will not help cope with this crisis. It must be remembered that whilst the beef industry is the one principally affected at the moment there will be major flow on effects to all meats. When more beef is forced onto the domestic market because of a lack of overseas markets it puts tremendous pressures on other forms of meat, particularly sheep meats. We will soon see meats such as pork and poultry feeling the effects as well. Therefore a very large proportion of primary industry will become involved in what is at the moment principally a cattle problem. There is an urgent need for Government action to prevent a major collapse of the Australian meat industry and despite the detailed papers and high sounding words of the Minister for Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  there is no indication at the moment that the Government is even aware of the time bomb which is ticking away in this country. 
Because of our very favourable season meat producers have been able to keep stock off the market, but they cannot do that for ever. Already over l.S million cattle have been carried forward, for another year representing a loss of income of about $200m. But even more serious than that, eventually these cattle, plus a similar number as a result of the normal breeding increase this year, will have to come onto the market. This will have 2 consequences. It could knock the bottom out of the local stock market. Also it will put tremendous pressure on our killing capacity, which could happen irrespective of market conditions if seasonal conditions worsen. Then we would have a quite impossible situation. 
The Government must indicate how it would propose to deal with this problem. It is of no use just sitting pat and hoping that disaster will not hit the meat industry. I hope it will not; we all hope that it will not. But industry must know what the Government intends to do. The most urgent need at the moment is to provide carry on finance. Certainly that will not help sell meat, but producers have to live and they must be given the chance to ride out the present very difficult period. There is a very real danger that if carry on finance is not available a large proportion of the meat industry could pass into the hands of a few large companies. Individual producers just do not have the resources to enable them to survive a situation like the one we now have. If finance is not available they will be forced to sell out at disastrously low prices to those with access to large financial reserves. The Government has a responsibility to stop this happening. Everybody agrees that the long term outlook for meat is good. There is a world wide shortage of protein and Australia is one of the most efficient protein producers in the world- perhaps the most efficient. 
The demand for meat will strengthen in the future, and probably in the not too distant future. Our industry must be helped through the period between now and when the market improves. This period may be a year, it may possibly be 2 years. But if one thing is certain it is that the world will be short of meat in the reasonably near future. Cattle are being slaughtered in the European Economic Community at a far greater rate than they are being replaced by breeding. Japan is steadily becoming more meat conscious and the present glut of meat in the United States will not last indefinitely. 
Therefore, as I mentioned a moment ago, carry-on finance is the urgent requirement- urgent in the sense that it is wanted now, not some time in the indefinite future. Producers must have confidence that they will be helped through this period; otherwise they will have no alternative but to put stock on the market at whatever price with all that implies. Secondly, the Government must by all possible means improve access to the markets of our principal customers, and that may require some reciprocal action by us. Thirdly, the Government could improve the returns to producers and encourage more meat on to the market by considering the temporary suspension of the levy imposed by the meat export charges legislation. The industry did not question the reasonableness of paying for meat inspection and for tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication when prices were high. But the industry believes that when prices are disastrously low consideration should be given to suspending this levy. It is worth pointing out that at present prices the levy of 1 .6c per lb represents approximately 6 per cent of the value of an average export steer and 15 per cent of the value of a chopper cow. This is a severe burden on the industry and inhibits the selling of our meat overseas. 
Finally, the Australian meat producer is just not prepared to stand by and let this Government with its disastrous record in primary industry preside over the disintegration of one of this nation's greatest assets, the meat industry. The producers need help now and they are entitled to sympathetic consideration by the Government, not merely in their own interests but in the national interest. There may not be much time left. 
I have said the 3 things that I would do. They are carry-on finance - 
-That is right, he was not listening. I have said the 3 things that the Minister could do, namely to provide carry-on finance immediately - 
-Negotiate to open up markets and to give consideration to suspending the 1.6c per lb levy on export meat. They are the 3 things that I have suggested. There might not be much time left. The Government must let our industry know that it will not be allowed to go to the wall. The Opposition has indicated what needs to be done and the Government must take the necessary action now and not the sort of action that it has taken in the past. 
Let us look at the assault there has been on the meat industry by this Government. After the election the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  called for the Australian Meat Board to report on how to lower prices. He was not satisfied with that report so he set up an interdepartmental committee. Then he referred this question to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. The Government was saved from making a damned fool of itself by the minority report of this Committee which was put in by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and other members from this side of the House. Then he referred the question back to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It is now back with the Prices Committee. No wonder there has been a collapse in the meat industry. Primary producers, particularly those in the beef industry, have been called upon to take the brunt of successive revaluations which have severely affected our ability to compete on our major export markets. This is the sort of action that has been taken by this Government. The industry is entitled to know now that it will get more sympathetic consideration in the immediate future. 
It is obviously impossible to cover this very wide field in 10 minutes. Therefore, I shall be able to refer only to alimited number of issues raised in these estimates for the Department of Science, which includes the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I should like to congratulate the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  and the Department of Science on the very comprehensive explanatory documents relating to these estimates, but I regret that they were received only tonight. I realise that the Minister was possibly under some pressure of time. It is impossible in the time available, having had an hour or two to study these very voluminous documents, to make any in-depth comments on their contents. Of course, we have had before us Budget Paper No. 4 dealing with the estimates of receipts and summary of estimated expenditure. 
I should like to refer to page 5 1 of that document relating to the estimated expenditure for the CSIRO. According to my calculations the total increase in expenditure of non-capital funds over the previous year for the CSIRO amounts to 16.3 per cent. Of this, the increase in head office expenditure has increased by 18.3 per cent; the expenditure on agricultural and biological research programs has increased by 17.9 per cent; the expenditure on industrial and physical sciences research has increased by 12.8 per cent. But the item that I should like to draw particular attention to relates to processing and use of mineral products. According to my calculations that has shown an increase of only 10 per cent. 
At the rate of inflation which this Government has allowed to develop in Australia, it is quite obvious that a rate of increase of 10 per cent a year in money terms for this item in fact represents a substantial reduction in real terms of the funds available for this purpose. This seems quite extraordinary. I draw attention to page 13 of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Examiners' Report on Science and Technology in Australia which states: 
We have . . . mentioned the importance of the mining, minerals and metallurgical industries, and the importance of a sustained and forward looking research and development effort in these sectors for Australia 's future. 
This report is a substantial document prepared by people highly expert in the field. When they make comments of this sort, I believe, the Minister must give very serious consideration to reexamining the priorities which seem to have been set in the estimates. It is quite ludicrous to have the situation of the minerals research expenditure increasing at not much more than half the rate of head office expenditure in particular. I draw the Minister's attention to that. It is clear that Australia has to concentrate on the industries in which we have a comparative advantage. The only way in which wage and salary increases in the community can be sustained in the long term is through increases in labour productivity. 
-Oh yes, I realise that. But coming back to this question of productivity, I make the point that improved living standards for all Australians will depend on how efficiently we use our resources; that is, human, mineral and industrial. That in turn will largely be influenced by our capacity to innovate and not merely follow the initiatives of other countries. 
Our huge area and our small population pose problems, but they also provide us with opportunities. One problem, of course, is to achieve economies of scale in many industries. The opportunities are to develop techniques and processes suited to our particular needs. One thing is quite certain: If we are to solve our problems we must give greater encouragement to private initiative and private enterprise. In saying that, I do not decry the role that Government agencies and authorities have. They have an important role to play, but worldwide experience indicates quite clearly that they cannot do the job on their own. The critical inflationary problems that we face have been spurred on by wage and salary increases far exceeding productivity gains. One of the principal weapons against inflation must be a better national productivity performance in all industries- primary, secondary and tertiary. That does not necessarily mean that people need to work harder but it does mean that their work must be more effective. That, in turn, requires that management must be ready to adopt new techniques as they become available because, in today's world, standing still means going backwards in relation to our competitors. The key factor in our ability to keep ahead of the competition will be the quality of our scientific effort and the willingness of industry to adapt to change rather than try to resist it. 
A cursory examination of the document which I received tonight and which I referred to a moment ago seems to indicate that the Government and the Minister's priorities are to cut back on the research and development functions of the 
Department and instead to give greater emphasis in favour of 'people oriented research', whatever that may be. This seems to indicate a fundamental difference in approach between the Government and the Opposition in what we see as the prime role of a department of science. For our part we believe that one of the major objectives of the department of science should be to give close attention to the setting of national priorities in science and technology in the light of community needs in the widest sense. It will require a ministry of science to give a great deal of attention to the collation and rapid dissemination of information on the broadest possible scale. It will require the fostering of a close working relationship, particularly between Government research institutions and private industry in the community, because the potential contribution which science and technology can make to society will only be realised if technical advances are put to practical use. The potential damage that science and technology can cause will only be recognised if technical advances are closely examined and widely examined for their impact on all sectors of the community. 
With the huge increase in the sum of human knowledge, it is becoming increasingly difficult to ensure that those who need technical information have ready access to it. It is becoming increasingly difficult to prevent unnecessary duplication in information storage and retrieval. In these circumstances the Opposition believes it is logical that careful consideration should be given to combining under one roof the collectors and disseminators of technical information. For the reasons I have just given, the Department of Science would seem to us to be the appropriate agency to achieve this objective. Such an arrangement would facilitate the Department of Science becoming the national focal point in promoting a wide awareness of science and technology and in operating as a scientific resource centre for the community. The apparent lack of emphasis on industrial research in an era when all Australian industry has to be ever more efficient if we are to maintain, let alone improve, our relative position against the advanced countries is causing the Opposition a great deal of concern. We believe it has been evidenced in the estimates which we are debating tonight. I regret greatly that time does not permit me to expand these arguments and examine them in greater detail, but I trust that will be done by my colleagues on this side of the chamber in the course of the debate. 
I am delighted to second the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I personally have had quite a long association with the Specific Learning Difficulties Association. A branch was formed some years ago in my electorate. I attended several of its early meetings and I have been kept informed of developments since then. The formation of this branch has been a good example of what can be done by a dedicated group of citizens who identify a problem in their community and then set about correcting it. I am delighted to say that this group has had considerable success in its efforts, including the appointment of a teacher with special qualifications to a school in their area. 
I would like to refer to the Karmel report in relation to this problem. The Opposition has previously indicated its support for the principle recommendations of the Karmel Committee and the funds that it provided for education. But how much of the Karmel Committee funds went towards correcting the problems of children with special learning difficulties? My recollection is that the Karmel report contained one paragraph only on this problem. My recollection is that there was no mention of capital funds, merely some recurrent grants. I would have thought that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  with his interest in this subject, would have ensured that adequate provision had been made through the Karmel Committee funds for the purposes we are discussing this morning. I must admit that I have been surprised and somewhat disappointed with the tone of some of the honourable member's remarks in the course of this debate. 
As long ago as 1972 the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the then Minister for Education and Science, appointed a committee part of whose terms of reference contained the specific requirement to report on teacher training for remedial work in this field. My memory is that this Committee had to report early in 1973. So the Opposition's interest in this field goes back some years. The aspect of the committee of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  dealing with remedial teacher training is of course extremely important, because it is a vital requirement. The committee established by the honourable member points up the vital requirement to identify early those children with special learning difficulties and the need to train teachers who can adequately deal with the problem. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I understand that the business of the House requires that I curtail my remarks. I do so in deference to agreements which have been reached, not because of lack of interest in this most important subject. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When does he expect to announce the decision reached, as a result of the consultations he has instituted with the Treasurer and the Attorney-General, regarding the payment of interest on unpaid compensation to lessees of rural land in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Where a Testator dies and leaves a life interest in the income from the estate to his or her widow or widower, as the case may be, and on the death of that widow or widower the estate is then to be divided amongst the widow's or widower's children, will capital gains tax be assessed not only at the time of death of the Testator, but a second time when the widow or widower dies and the estate passes to the children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What quantities of meat have been flown from New Zealand to Brisbane since 3 1 July 1 974. 
What types of meat have been involved. 
asked the Minster for Science, upon notice. 
1 ) Have the operations of the University of Sydney's stellar intensity interferometer at Narrabri been closed down because it has completed all the research programs for which it was designed. 
Has the Chatterton Department of Astronomy submitted to the Government a proposal for a more sensitive instrument of this type to carry on the initial work of the Narrabri stellar interferometer. 
If so, when does the Government expect to announce its decision on whether it is prepared to fund this project. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many social workers are provided to each Commonwealth hostel in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What is their role. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average age of new residents coming to Canberra. 
What proportion of new residents each year are single. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What was the city or town of origin of newly arrived unmarried residents in Canberra in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When can the lessor apply for a re-determination of the fair rent under the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance 1949-1973. 
Is the fair rent determination retrospective to the date of the letting. 
3 ) If the lessor faces increased mortgage payments, is this grounds for a variation of the fair rent; if not, why not. 
From what date does a re-determination of rent apply, i.e. the date of the original letting, or the date of the original determination. 
If the re-determination applies from the date of determination, can this mean waiting m excess of 12 months without variation in rent. 
How many lessors were waiting for a determination for (a) less than one month, (b) between 1 and 2 months, (c) between 2 and 3 months, (d) between 3 and 4 months, (e) between 4 and S months, (f) between 5 and 6 months and (g) more than 6 months, between date of letting and date of fair rent determination, for houses let after 1 August 1 973. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many social workers does his Department employ. 
) How many social workers are there in the A.C.T. 
What is the function of each of the Governmentemployed social welfare workers. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Are several licensees under the Liquor Ordinance 1 929 about to be prosecuted by the Crown for what appears to be a minor breach of an old condition of their licences, namely, of selling less than 2 gallons. 
As this condition no longer applies in the States of Australia, will the Government consider amending the Ordinance to allow single bottle sales from bulk wine depots. 
If the existing Ordinance cannot be amended speedily, will he arrange to have the charges withdrawn, in view of the inequity of the situation applying to licensees in the A.C.T. compared with those in the States. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What was the average price charged for Government houses in Canberra for each of the last 5 financial years. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What proportion of new residents in Canberra each year are migrants. 
) What is their country of origin. 
What is the average length of stay in Canberra of unmarried residents. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Could the Island Lagoon Tracking Station have been used to receive 'real time' data from the ERTS Satellite? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What alterations will be made to existing arrangements relating to the issue of weather forecasts as foreshadowed by his reply to my question without notice of 17 October 1974. 
Will there be any reduction in the number and/or type of weather forecasts for the aviation industry. 
Is there any intention to make a financial charge to any users of weather forecasts. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has the Minister refused to allow the United States Embassy to sell 6 houses in Canberra to a commercial developer for approximately $250,000 and has offered the Embassy between $20,000 and $30,000 for the property concerned? Did he state in relation to this decision that he is not prepared to be a party to land speculation in any form in the Australian Capital Territory? Will the Minister assure this House that he will apply exactly the same principles as he applied to the United States Embassy properties to block 4 section 24 in Kingston which was purchased on 1 April 1965 for 9,000, as it was then, or $18,000, by the Minister for Services and Property which the Minister has had on the market at a price of $80,000 and for which the Minister is reported to have refused an offer of $65,000? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek indulgence to enable me to answer the Leader of the House. 

 -No, Mr Speaker, I seek to clarify the matter. The figures I quoted this morning in relation to the property owned by the Minister for Services and Property and his wife I quoted in good faith and I believe that they are correct. If my subsequent inquiries show that they are not correct I shall apologise to the Minister. 
-This Bill, dealing with the Australian wool industry, is of very great importance to the Australian economy and to primary industry in particular because the wool industry is still Australia's greatest industry. I was a little surprised by some of the remarks by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  earlier tonight. It is well known to the Opposition and in the industry that the honourable member has been offering the possibility of appointment to the Board of the Australian Wool Corporation if this extra position is created through the passage of this clause in the Bill that we are now discussing. I suggest the action that he has taken could have done a great disservice to the industry and to other people of high reputation whom he has not mentioned amongst those he puts forward as contenders for the position on the Corporation but who may now feel that they have been rejected or are not acceptable to the Government. I think this is a disservice to the industry as well as to individuals. 
It is a truism that, when wool is doing well, the Australian rural community is doing well. When wool is doing badly, it puts tremendous pressure on other rural products. I have only to give the example of beef in recent years to make my point. The consequences of putting extra pressure on other industries is now only too apparent, unfortunately. So, this legislation has great significance for a large proportion of the Australian economy. I use that word 'proportion' advisedly. I am sick of hearing about this sector, the rural sector, the manufacturing sector, the urban sector, the tertiary sector and so on. It is about time we all grew up and realised that we are all members of one economy. I refer to the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  earlier tonight in this debate when he drew attention to the essential inter-dependence of the Australian economy. 
This legislation puts 2 concepts into statutory form. They are not new concepts, but they are new in statutory form. I refer to supply management and a floor price for wool. I think it can be said that in combination they have introduced a degree of stability into the rural community- not a very high level of income, but a degree of stability- because the stability which it has introduced into the wool industry, albeit at a reasonably low level, has great influence for the reasons I have just described, in the rural community as a whole. That influence extends beyond wool itself. 
We are now about to see whether the supply management provisions- paying out growers rather than holding back wool, the growers consequently not getting paid for it- in fact will work in practice. One of the problems is the pressures that it will put on wool storage space. There will inevitably be a greater quantity of wool in storage in Australia. I am not necessarily critical of that. I am saying that is an inevitable consequence of the legislation we are debating tonight. 
Storage costs money through warehouse and interest charges. The estimates which the Australian Wool Corporation gave a couple of months ago show that storage space will cost approximately 40c a bale a month or, if its inventory is the size which they think it may be, between $25m to $35m a year. That is a considerable cost to the industry and that cost must be met by the growers. The current inventory, I am informed, is approximately 820,000 bales. One of the questions to which I would like to know the answer, but I appreciate the reason for the Corporation not wishing to make the figures public, is whether this inventory is truly representative proportionately of the Australian clip. I have here figures of the composition of the Australian clip by micron measurement for the years 1971-72 and 1972-73. These figures are supplied by the Australian Wool Corporation. I ask for leave to incorporate those figures in Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What recreation facilities are provided at each Commonwealth hostel. 
Is there a special fund set aside for each hostel from which the management can provide recreation facilities or subsidise costs incurred by resident social clubs in organising recreational activities for hostel residents. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers or employees of his Department or of authorities under has control are employed on research and development work? 
Where are they employed? 
What is the nature of the work being undertaken? 
What is the total expenditure per annum in maintaining this research and development program? 
Who decides the nature of the programs or projects included in this research and development work? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many job vacancies are registered in the Geelong employment district. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-section ( 1 ) of proposed section 20a add ' and appropriate employer groups '. 
Proposed section 20a (1) makes provision for the Corporation to consult, and have regard to the views of, appropriate trade union organisations before any action is taken with respect to conditions of employment or the demand for labour in the wool industry. I find this an extraordinary provision in view of the oft-repeated aims of the Labor Party regarding industrial relations. It continually lays stress on the dialogue required to reach agreement in industrial relations from the labour organisation side of the . fence and from the management side of the . . fence, yet here we have this most extraordinary provision advocating that consultations shall take place only with respect to one side of the fence. It reminds me of a question which I understand is sometimes asked in the Zen Buddhist religion: What is the sound of one hand clapping? I make the point in regard to the proposed new section 20a  (  1 ) that it refers to only one side of the industrial fence. Yet continually the Australian Labor Party allegedly gives its support to consultation and negotiation between the 2 sides. We see our amendment as being not only sensible but also entirely consistent with the policy of the Australian Labor Party which has been put - . forward over many years. Therefore, we propose  Amendment  No. 3. It is: 
At the end of sub-section ( I ) of the proposed section 20a add 'and appropriate employer groups'. 
Surely, if any sort of negotiated agreement is to be reached in this field, it has to be an agreement which is - 
I am very interested in the interjection of the honourable member for Port Adelaide that the employers have nothing to offer. If ever I have heard a case of prejudging an issue it is that. If you go into the negotiating situation with the cast iron belief that the other side has nothing to offer, obviously you will not listen to what the other side has to say. That is exactly why the Opposition has moved this amendment. It is quite patent from proposed section 20a  (  1 ) that the Government is not prepared to admit that the other side has anything to say. I am amazed that the honourable member for Port Adelaide with his experience in industrial relations makes that interjection. The whole basis of industrial relations is dialogue and listening to what the other side has to say. Therefore I have moved this amendment. If proposed section 20a  (  1  )  is to mean anything- the Opposition is not out to oppose proposed section 20a ( 1 )- it has to involve both sides of the industrial relations fence. It has to involve both sides in the sense that the Australian Labor Party itself has constantly advocated over the year. I hope that honourable members opposite will see the sense of the amendment and give it their support If proposed section 20a  (  1  )  in the terms of the Bill before us is to gain any advantage for the industry, both sides of the fence have to talk together. Therefore I have moved amendment No. 3 in the terms that had already been circulated to honourable members. 
I move: 
Omit proposed sub-section 20a (2). 
Proposed sub-section 20a (2) states: 
The Minister may give to the Corporation such directions in writing as he thinks necessary in connection with the performance of the duty of the Corporation under sub-section (1). 
That is sub-section 20a  (1  ). The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and I have just pointed out the totally one-sided nature of the negotiations if such they can be called- arrangements involving only one side of an argument- which are proposed in section 20A (1). If proposed section 20a (1) were amended as we suggested by adding the words and appropriate employer groups', there would be no need for proposed section 20a (2 ). 
It is a matter of great regret to the Opposition, and it will not go unnoticed by the industry, that the Government has not been prepared to accept the completely reasonable amendment which we moved to clause 20a (1). I do not know that there is much more that I can add because, as I have said, the amendment which I have just moved is consequent on the amendment which we moved to proposed section 20a  (  1 ). But the Government's attitude highlights once again its one-sided authoritarian view on industrial relations. Proposed section 20a (2 ) states that: 
The Minister may give to the Corporation such directions in writing as he thinks necessary . . . 
That is in relation to consultations with appropriate trade union organisations but not with anybody else. We have no argument with the Corporation having consultations with the trade union organisations. But what we say is that consultations are quite meaningless unless they involve the other side of the industrial relations fence. 
The honourable member for New England has explained very clearly the great importance which these 2 proposed sub-sections have to those who actually produce wool and who have to find the money to pay the wages which are negotiated in the wool industry. Therefore we say very firmly that provided proposed section 20a (1) makes proper provision for consulting with both sides of the industry on conditions of employment, there should be no need to include proposed section 20a (2) in the Bill. Therefore,  Sir, I  have moved for its deletion. 
-The Government's decision to abolish the superphosphate bounty as from the end of this month will go down as the most ignorant and shortsighted of all its decisions, and that is saying something. There does not seem to be any possible coherent reason for the abolition of this bounty. The Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  as mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  has on numerous occasions referred to the important role of the bounty in increasing the usage of superphosphate. We even have the extraordinary situation of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  himself admitting that the decision to phase out the bounty was not only a bad one but also was handled badly.  His  criticism relates not only to the decision itself but also to the way in which it was handled. 
Having established the Industries Assistance Commission to investigate and report on all forms of assistance to all Australian industriesprimary, secondary and eventually, I understand, probably tertiary as well- and established the machinery to investigate these issues properly, the Government by-passed its own instrument and went ahead and made this ad hoc decision clearly without proper knowledge and without reference to the Commission. The ridiculously narrow reference which has been made on the new land farming in Western Australia, to which my colleague referred, will do little to redress the harm that has been done. In the face of constantly mounting criticism, both from within its own ranks, from primary producer organisations and from those on this side of the Parliament, the action of the Government has, I regret to say, been just plain pig-headed. It has just not been prepared to listen to the arguments that have been put forward. It has not been prepared to read the arguments that have been propounded or the statistics that are prepared within its own Bureau of Agricultural Economics on the result that will follow this decision. It is difficult to over-emphasise the importance of superphosphate under Australian conditions. It is well known that phosphorus is the great deficiency in Australian soils in the medium to high rainfall areas and in the irrigation areas which can benefit from fertilisers. There is no doubt whatever that with the reduced usage of superphosphate which will follow the abolition of the bounty there will be a progressive reduction in the fertility of Australian soils. I do not think that even the Minister for Northern Development would doubt the truth of that statement. This was the theme which was developed by the honourable member for New England. 
It is well known that the legumes, the clovers, particularly subterranean clover, respond greatly to superphosphate. It is also well known that the legumes are the great fixers of nitrogen in the soil on which high production grasses can feed. I am talking about grassses like phalaris, cocksfoot, rye and all the fescues. Without the nitrogen supplied by the legumes, particularly the clovers, production will decline because the fertility of the soil will decline. I am informed that Professor Donald of the Waite Institute, one of Australia's foremost agricultural scientists, wrote to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  urging that the Government reconsider this decision. Quite apart from anything else, this is a ridiculous time to abolish the bounty. As has been pointed out, the rise in the world price of phosphate rock is tremendous. It has probably trebled in 1 8 months. At the same time we have a huge increase in domestic costs of production in Australia. Most of them can be laid fairly and squarely on the inflationary policies of this Government. For example, in the last 12 months the cost of shearing has gone up approximately 40 per cent between one shearing and the next. During that time there has been a substantial reduction in the price of wool, and wages and costs generally are skyrocketing. 
The price of superphosphate rock is trebling. In this situation the timing of the Government to abolish the bounty is almost unbelievable. There is no doubt that superphosphate usage will decline. I referred earlier to the work done by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics on the elasticity of demand and the usage of superphosphate in relation to price. I understand that most of the superphosphate plants in Australia now are working at about 50 per cent of their capacity. With the anticipated further rise in the price of superphosphate after 1 January, due not only to the abolition of the bounty but also because of the further rise in phosphate rock prices, it is likely that the production of these plants will represent an even smaller proportion of their total productive capacity. 
The results of research which has been undertaken all over Australia on a wide variety of soils have established quite clearly the importance of regular maintenance dressings. It is not good enough just to wait until there is the odd big year to put on superphosphate. Of course there is a tremendous response in that particular year, but what is needed to maintain improved pastures at a high level of production are annual maintenance dressings. They are the most efficient way of doing it. But now people will cut back drastically immediately. They will hope that prices for their products improve and then when they have the odd big year they will get back into a reasonably heavy dressing of superphosphate. But that will not lead to the best usage of improved pastures. 
The results of reduced superphosphate usage will be apparent immediately in some industries and will take longer to appear in others. For example, in the pastoral industries, particularly in areas that have received a large amount of superphosphate perhaps over a period of 30 years, the decline in the production of meat and wool may not be immediately apparent, especially if we have reasonable seasons. But that does not apply to the agricultural industries. I am thinking particularly here of wheat because the wheat yield with the reduced usage of superphosphate will drop and it will not take long for that to be reflected, not only in the production of wheat but also in its local price. 
Part of the formula upon which the domestic price for wheat is calculated is yield. If the yield drops the formula provides that the price will be adjusted accordingly. So it will not take long for this stupid action to be reflected not only in the price of wheat but also in the price of bread and all the other products in which wheat is usedbreakfast cereals and so on. Then the Government's stupidity will be apparent not only to the farming community; it will be apparent to all citizens. As I said, lower meat production might take a while to be apparent, but meat production will fall. That will not, incidentally, be of any help in the present situation of oversupply. I think there is general agreement that this critical period in the meat industry that we face will be of short term duration. So we will have the problem of a resurgence of demand, I believe, in a couple of years time. By that time the effects of the reduced use of superphosphate will be apparent. So just when demand for meat will be increasing we will have a fall in production due to the abolition of the bounty. 
The honourable member for New England referred to the contrast between this Government's attitude and that of the New Zealand Government which has taken the very reasonable attitude that, to encourage continuity- I stress that word- of production and some semblance of being able to budget with the knowledge of the costs, superphosphate in New Zealand will be sold for $26 a tonne and the bounty has been adjusted accordingly. I believe it now stands at NZ$18 a tonne. This makes the actions of the Australian Government in many areas- with conditions exactly the same as or similar to those in New Zealand- even more incomprehensible. The decision to abolish the bounty, will affect both large and small producers, but it will affect the smaller producers hardest. The smaller producer has to make the most of every acre of his land. He has to produce at maximum efficiency, and he cannot do that if he reduces his application of superphosphate. So proportionately he will be hardest hit because the larger producer, as his gross income is bigger, can cut back on his production and probably still survive even though at lower efficiency. But the smaller producer cannot. He just has to make every acre of his ground produce. So proportionately it will hit him a great deal harder than anybody else. 
One incidental result in country areas, particularly those with larger holdings, will be a reduced demand for labour. With sheep and cattle numbers eventually being cut back because the pastures will no longer support them, demands for labour will eventually be reduced. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister have attacked the bounty in the past. They claim that some producers have obtained considerable financial benefit from it. But I would point out that the large users of superphosphate are large producers. Their costs are higher. When they have a good season, they pay more tax. Proportionately, they gain no greater benefit from the bounty than the small producer. In fact, as I mentioned a moment ago, I believe that proportionately they are probably getting less because of their capacity to reduce gross production or gross income and still survive. It is not too late- nearly too late but not quite- for the Government to take action to reverse its stubborn refusal to reinstate this bounty. This is one action that the Government could take which would help to restore some confidence to the rural industry whose confidence is being shattered by a successive series of unbelievably stupid and sometimes even vindictive decisions of this Government. It has taken away incentives for increased efficiency, productivity and soil, water and fodder conservation. 
It has. It is no longer possible or attractive for individual farmers not only in their own interests but also in the national interest to drought proof themselves. When tough times come and farmers have had no incentive to drought proof themselves, there will be demands on the public purse to get them out of trouble. This is what the Opposition has constantly pointed out. The Government can take action now. I call upon the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory to support this Bill. I know that he supports the principle embodied in it. It may not be too late, as I said a moment ago, to give the primary producers of Australia, who have suffered so much under this Government, a Christmas present for which they would be most grateful. I support the Bill. I have much pleasure in seconding the motion of my colleague, the honourable member for New England. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I second the motion. I do so for exactly the same reasons as my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  has outlined. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Sinclair's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
That this House expresses its concern at the Minister for the Capital Territory's total lack of understanding of the needs of young people in the Australian Capital Territory, including their accommodation requirements. 
It is an indictment on the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  and on the Labor Government that this motion should need to be moved at all. The events of the past few days have only served to confirm the inability of this Government to understand the needs of the community in general and of young people in particular. The significance of this motion in national terms is obvious. The Labor Government and all its Ministers are in full control of their destiny in the Australian Capital Territory. They have no-one else to blame for what they do and for what they fail to do. They cannot dream up ways of accusing State governments of causing delays and frustrations. They have the A.C.T. to themselves. The consequence is that the Government's performance in the A.C.T. becomes a barometer for the rest of Australia. If there is any way to determine the capacity or the lack of capacity of this Government, then one need no more than look at the A.C.T. 
Regretfully, the Government's policies in this area have been a disaster. I have referred to the inadequacies in the Government's policies over a wide area in the past. Today I raise specifically the question of young people. The significance of looking at the needs of young single people in the A.C.T. is obvious. There are more than 80,000 single people in the A.C.T., more than 20,000 between the ages of 15 and 24. The average age of new residents coming to Canberra is 24 years. The future of Canberra will rely on its new residents and the success they have in establishing new careers and new lives in Canberra. Newly arrived young people who come to Canberra face added difficulties to their counterparts in other States. They come to a strange city without the benefit of close friends, relatives or family. I believe it is time that more attention was given to these aspects of creating new cities and new growth centres. It is time that someone began to speak up for youth. I am convinced that the present Minister will not speak up for them. 
In making a plea for young people in the A.C.T. I am not calling for more physical facilities. I think everyone is willing to recognise that in terms of roads, schools and physical setting, Canberra is well-served. The danger is that the complacency of this Minister will lead him to lose sight of the sociological aspects of urban planning and community development. We have all heard the criticism of Canberra as a dead city. It is said to have no heart. If these criticisms are to be overcome it is necessary that every step be taken to allow the community to be more involved in the decisions that affect them. 
In recent weeks I have asked a number of questions of the Minister for the Capital Territory concerning young people and the provisions made for them. The Minister's complacent disinterested replies are a cause of concern. The big saviour for Canberra was supposed to be its own Minister and its own Department. Initially, we had the member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby)  as Minister. He failed abysmally and was replaced. Unfortunately, the change has not produced any improvement. As an example of the Minister's extraordinary lack of understanding and his failure to interest himself in the needs of Canberra people, I refer to question 1406 in which I sought information on the number of social workers in the A.C.T. The Minister informed me that his Department did not have such statistics. He did not say he would try to get the information, or express any other interest. I also asked in another question the proportion of new residents coming to Canberra who are single. He replied in 3 terse words: 'No information available'. I am tempted to replace those words with: 'I am not interested'. I also asked a question on the number of social workers provided to Commonwealth hostels. As honourable members are aware, there are more than 2,000 young people who live in hostels in Canberra. The majority of new people coming to Canberra live in a hostel at some stage. Some are as young as 16 and 17 and have left home and parents for the first time. It is of obvious importance that they be given every assistance in their initial period. The Minister, in his same terse manner, simply said that his Department does not provide social workers for Commonwealth hostels. He simply said that there were 36 social workers and welfare officers employed by the Department whose services were available to all members of the community. He did not say whether he thought there was a need for social workers to be provided for the hostels. He just dismissed the question without further thought. I pay tribute to the work of the churches in the hostels. They have done a firstclass job in providing some counselling services to young people. 
I also asked the Minister what was the city or town of origin of newly arrived unmarried residents. The uninformative reply was simply that statistics of this nature are not kept by the 
Department. It is obvious that not only does the Minister have a total lack of understanding of the problems of young people but also that he is not interested in seeking out information which might enlighten him. One begins to wonder why this Government created a separate Department in the first place if it does not have on hand information of this kind nor apparently will it try to get it. How is the Minister able to make decisions about the needs of young people if he has so little information available to him? In the past the Opposition has criticised the Government's decision to remove the National Capital Development Commission from the control of the Minister responsible for the A.C.T. Admittedly, one would have grave doubts as to this Minister's ability to administer the Commission, but it is essential that if any one person is to be responsible for Canberra 's future he should have some say in the way in which it develops through the activities of the Commission. Similarly, we oppose the Government's decision to place the Australian Capital Territory Police Force under the control of the Attorney-General. I have already expressed the Opposition's view that the A.C.T. police must be responsible to the Minister in charge of theA.C.T. 
The Government may attempt to ignore the significance of this motion. I hope it does not. Judging from its performance in the A.C.T., it is clear that it does not have a policy for youth. It is projected that in 1981 there will be more than 2.6 million persons in Australia aged between 10 and 19. This will constitute over 16 per cent of the Australian population. In comparison those over 60 would constitute only 12 per cent of the population. Labor has run Canberra as its social laboratory. It is in danger of turning it into a sociological desert. I quote from a recent report on urban development in Australia by Professor Alonso who visited Australia in 1973 and submitted a report to the Government. He stated: 
It is well recognised in Britain that, at least in their early years, social problems can be as acute in the new towns as in the older, less physically attractive older city environments. Lack of community life or neighbourhood organisation, absence of diversity of activity and remoteness from other places, a restricted 'social class mix', have contributed to psychological problems, manifesting themselves sometimes in high rates of juvenile delinquency, depressions and malaise. The sense of being uprooted from familiar environments, from friends and relatives is a strong one in new towns . . . 
From these points of view even Canberra seems not to be entirely ideal and hardly to form a model for growth centres which will be based on a wider cross section of the Australian people. 
These are the points I want to emphasise to the Minister, because what I fear and what the Australian people must fear - 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) How many single people are there in the A.C.T. 
What are their ages. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has he initiated to take account of the Government decision to put a ceiling of 2.6 per cent on the growth of the Public Service and Government authorities. 
What is the estimated decrease in demand for housing resulting from the above decision. 
What is the estimated saving in Government expenditure on services and facilities resulting from the above decision. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the suicide rate in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How does it compare with the suicide rate in other capital cities in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people in the Geelong employment district are (a) registered as unemployed, (b) receiving unemployment benefits, (c) engaged in full-time employment under the Regional Employment Development Scheme, (d) receiving special benefits as a result of retrenchments, in industries affected by Government tariff decisions and (e) being retrained under the National Employment and Training System and receiving benefits and costs of full or pan time education. 
What is the weekly cost to the taxpayer in respect of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of pan ( 1 ). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When does he expect to be able to advise his colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory, on the results of the consultations referred to in my question No. 1184 of 2 October 1974. 
asked the  Minister  for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many hostels are there in the A.C.T. 
2 ) What is the size of each hostel. 
How many of the residents are unmarried. 
What is the age structure of the residents. 
5 ) What is the average length of stay at hostels. 
What percentage of single people in the A.C.T. live in Commonwealth hostels. 
What percentage of single people in the A.C.T. are public servants. 
What accommodation provisions are made for single people other than public servants in the A.C.T. 
When this debate started there was one Minister and 7 backbenchers in the chamber on the Government side and there were 1 1 members on the Opposition front bench, and 32 of their supporters. Immediately the debate started the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  showed his contempt for the issue being discussed by walking out of the chamber, having spent half an hour 'quibbling about a word in Hansard. A year ago the Prime 
Minister and other Ministers were telling the primary producers of Australia that they had never had it so good because of actions taken by the Labor Government. Now the actions of the Labor Government have caught up with it, but it is the beef producers and primary producers generally who are being called upon to pay for them. 
Unfortunately there has been no improvement in the position of the beef industry since this matter was raised in a debate on a matter of public importance in October last year. This is partly due to the similar worldwide circumstances applying now as applied then but it is also largely due to the procrastination and ineptitude of this Government. At the time of the last debate I made 3 positive suggestions, in addition to many made by my colleague the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  First was this question of carry on finance. It was clear even at that time that a substantial amount would be required but the response was typical of this Government; it was hopelessly inadequate. The sum of $20m was made available at 1 1  '/2  per cent interest. No wonder there has been no improvement in the situation. It is worse because there has been a decline in confidence within the beef industry. There are signs that the Government is now realising this, but as usual its recognition is belated in response to a desperate situation. I suppose it is possible that the Government will make the right decision eventually but by that time, as in the case of its disastrous policies for manufacturing industry and private enterprise generally, the damage will have been done. Hundreds of producers will have found it impossible to carry on. So I make this plea to the Government: Make a clear statement that more carry on finance will be available at less than the current 1 1  Vi  per cent interest rate. How can a producer accept carry on finance if he has no income to pay the interest on the money he receives? 
Another suggestion I have made to the Government relates to deferment of income tax, interest free, for taxpayers the majority of whose income came from the production of beef in 1973-74. The present financial situation of the beef industry provides a classic illustration of 2 basic deficiencies in Government policy, both of which are covered by the Opposition's rural policy. Firstly, every day that passes emphasises the need for a rural bank to finance primary industry in Australia on terms appropriate to the particular difficulties and differences experienced by primary producers. If we were in government we would establish such an institution. Secondly, the enormous fluctuations in the incomes of beef producers between 1973-74, a year of record high prices, and this financial year, a year of record low prices, have shown the urgent need for farmers to have some means of stabilising their incomes. Again, the Opposition has spelt out in detail its farm income reserve fund whereby primary producers could pay into the fund in years of high income, the contributions being non-taxable and earning interest at the short term bond rate, and withdraw funds in years of low income, the withdrawals being treated as income in that tax year. How much sounder the beef industry would have been today had such a fund been in existence during the period of record high prices. The Opposition is committed to establishing this fund and the sooner we are in a position to do so the better it will be for primary producers and the Australian economy. 
I also suggested last year suspension of the beef export levy. Again I put that proposal forward today. At a time of high prices it was reasonable to expect producers to bear this cost. Now, since this cost represents approximately 15 per cent of the value of a beast it is quite unreasonable to expect producers to bear this cost. It is an absolute disgrace that the Government has done absolutely nothing about this quite simple suggestion which was made months ago. We pressed last year for negotiations to open up new markets. Again, the Government response has been typical. Having been warned of an impending crisis and what should be done the Government waited months before doing anything. Now a delegation is in Europe trying to sell Australian meat. That should have been on the move before Christmas. 
These were all suggestions made 4 months ago. Since then I have advocated a further series of moves the Government could take. We all know that the present situation is due largely to the 3 major markets- the United States of America, the European Economic Community and Japan- all cutting down or eliminating imports of beef simultaneously. Therefore, we must move with determination and speed to open up new markets and develop new products. I have suggested to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that encouragement should be given by the Government to meat companies to diversify their methods of processing beef, such as salting, dry salting and dehydration. 
Next, I doubt whether sufficient effort has been made to use canned beef as a food aid. I know the problems of distribution and diet, but I find it hard to believe that since 1971 we could not have disposed of more than 1300 tonnes of canned beef, which I am informed is the actual amount disposed of over the last 3 years. There are also possibilities of using beef in domestic welfare programs. What about a small entitlement to beef for those on unemployment benefits? Thanks to the disastrous policies of this Government this country has a surplus at the present time of both beef and unemployed. Could not something be done to help both problems? I am not suggesting this as a permanent feature of policy but we are in a crisis situation and unusual and imaginative policies are required to deal with it. 
I refer now to the sale of beef to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Eastern Europe. There are disturbing factors relating to the recent announcement of the sale of 40 000 tonnes to Russia. It was originally announced some time ago, which was obviously premature. Now there are considerable doubts whether the prices will allow meat exporters to fulfil the order. It is absolutely essential that this sale goes ahead. The overriding priority in Australia today is to convert cattle on the hoof into consumer beef. The industry, as the Minister for Agriculture himself has acknowledged, is on the edge of a volcanothe volcano being represented by a failure of the season. If this happens with cattle numbers at the present high levels it is difficult to predict the seriousness of the consequences. 
I am personally convinced that it is not an impossible task to open up new markets. I would like to quote the experience of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Meat Company in Victoria. Through energetic management and export initiative this company has found new markets. Certainly the price has not been all it could hope for but the point is that by going out and adopting an aggressive marketing approach it has got markets. If that company can do this others can do it, and we must do it. At the recent Agricultural Outlook Conference some disturbing figures were given in relation to United States cattle numbers. It is anticipated that cattle slaughterings in the United States will rise by 8 to 10 per cent in 1975. But it is also expected that the total number of cattle in the United States, which is now 133 million, will rise to 137 million by the end of this year despite the increased slaughterings. Our beef industry is frighteningly dependent on the United States market. More than 50 per cent of our total exports go there. We must reduce this dependence. It is not only a task for the Government but government must give a lead. It will take more than a public relations tour of Europe by a Prime Minister, totally illiterate in the problems of primary industry, to solve this problem. 
I have suggested a whole range of measures the Government could take to stimulate the industry. I have put forward several proposals which the Opposition would put into practice on our return to government. On the Government's performance to date it looks as though the hardpressed beef industry will have to wait for the return to power of the Liberal and Country parties. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of producers cannot wait. The Government must do another about-turn. That should not cause it any difficulty. It should take our advice on this issue, as it has on so many others, and act on it, not just talk about it. The Government should at least call the industry together to try to evolve a coherent approach to the problems of the industry. Last year the Opposition did it. We have taken all the initiatives so far. Let us see a bit of action from the Government. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What Australian flag ships were dry-docked out of Australia during the last 3 years 
) What was the tonnage of each of these ships 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When does the Attorney-General expect to be able to advise his colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory, on the results of the consultations referred to in my question No. 1 184 of 2 October 1974. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it intended to withdraw departmental fire fighting services from any aerodromes, and replace them with municipal services: if so, what aerodromes will be affected. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has an occasional child care centre been planned as an integral part of the development of Tuggeranong. 
) If so. when will details of the plans and the chosen site be available for comment from the community. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will the names of the successful tenderers for housing blocks in the A.C.T., and the amount of their tender, be published. 
Will all tenders be opened at the same time. 
Who will be present when they are opened. 
Can a tenderer put in more than one tender. 
-The first purpose of this Bill is to bring within the ambit of the Australian War Memorial Act Australians who served in the armed forces of other Commonwealth or Allied countries, Australian merchant seamen and certain civilians such as official war correspondents and photographers and Australian Red Cross representatives who served with Australian forces. The second purpose of the Bill is to enable the Australian War Memorial Board to invest its funds to give a better return than they do now. I say at the outset that the Opposition supports the Bill. I will deal first with the second provision, that is, the one relating to the investment of funds. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Australian War Memorial is a major publisher in its own right and that the finance it raises from its publications has enabled the Board of the War Memorial to be self-supporting so far as acquiring exhibits for the Memorial is concerned. It seems reasonable and sensible therefore that these funds should be invested to the best advantage consistent with security. 
Turning to the major provision of the Billthat is, the one which broadens the scope of the Australian War Memorial Act in relation to those people who can receive official recognition in the Memorial itself- it probably came as a surprise to many people to find that Australians serving with the forces of other countries could not receive recognition in the Australian War Memorial. I think there is general approval in the community of those people receiving such recognition. The same could be said of merchant seamen. As a former member of the Royal Australian Navy, I am very conscious of the fact that merchant seamen faced many of the same dangers and discomforts as the Navy did. I consider it very appropriate also that people such as representatives of the Red Cross should receive recognition. Many members of the Services will recall with respect and appreciation the great contribution that such people made to the morale and welfare of the Services, often in dangerous and difficult circumstances. Then there are the war correspondents and photographers. Who will forget the magnificent written and photographic records of all aspects of war made by such people as Chester Wilmot in his books 'The Struggle for Europe' and 'Tobruk', Alan Moorehead in 'Gallipoli' and Damien Parer in his photography, to name just three. These men and others like them are historians of world standard, responsible for some of the greatest writings and pictorial records of the wars in which Australians have been engaged, and they too are worthy of recognition in the Australian War Memorial. All these reasons support the extension of the Australian War Memorial Act to cover the area referred to. As I mentioned earlier, the Opposition supports the Bill. 
The Australian War Memorial is one of the great focal points of interest in Canberra for Australians of all ages, and that is as it should be. It is not necessary to glorify war in order that people may acknowledge with gratitude the sacrifices which have been made in war and which have enabled Australia to remain a free and democratic country. If the day ever comes when these sacrifices are forgotten, the sort of Australia that we have known will be in great danger. We on this side of the House agree that the Australian War Memorial has a major role to play in ensuring that that situation never arises. In our opinion, this legislation will assist the War Memorial to fulfil its role. For those reasons the Opposition has pleasure in supporting the extension of the Memorial's functions as set out in the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question without notice is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. How does the Minister account for the fact that his Department's unemployment figures for February are over 54 000 higher than those of the Bureau of Statistics for the same month, when the number of applicants for part-time work, excluded from the Department's figures, has also been deducted from those of the Bureau? Does this huge discrepancy, far higher than normal, indicate that there are thousands of multiple registrations or that there has been a failure to clear the rolls by removing the names of people who have in fact been placed in jobs, or is the Minister inflating current unemployment figures above their true level so that, if he  sees an election in the offing, he will be able to claim a substantial but fictitious reduction in unemployment? 
-The purpose of this Bill is to provide for reference and appeal procedures to the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in connection with industrial matters concerning pilots, navigators and flight engineers who are now within the jurisdiction of the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal. By doing so, this Bill brings the flight crew officers into broadly the same position as other employees within the jurisdiction of the Commission. A secondary power is incorporated in the Bill. It was not referred to in the second reading speech made on behalf of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  but it gives a power to the  President  of the Commission to assign a commissioner to act as the Tribunal. I would have thought that the Tribunal could have appointed the commissioner in such circumstances, but the Opposition does not intend to make an issue out of this provision. However, we would like to hear from the Minister for Labor and Immigration just what the proposal means. Does it imply, for example, that the  President  can appoint a commissioner without first consulting the Tribunal who, after all, has special responsibility for industrial relations in this area? 
The reference and appeal provisions are the most important part of the Bill, and these provisions will be accepted by the Opposition. Industrial relations concerning flight crew officers have had rather a chequered history. On one previous occasion some years ago the flight crew officers in fact withdrew from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. But I do not intend to go over the old ground which was mentioned briefly in the second reading speech given on behalf of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Since the establishment of the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal in 1967, pilots, navigators and flight engineers have been in a special position by having a tribunal of their own which is not subject to all the same conditions as other organisations under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. What was then seen as a special position occupied by flight crew officers was outlined by the then Minister for Labor and National Service in his speech concerning the establishment of the Tribunal in 1967. Since then there have been industrial disputes, as probably there always will be. But disputes involving flight crew officers invariably get tremendous publicity, firstly, because flight crew officers are, by community standards, highly paid and, secondly, because any disruption to airline services creates great problems and often personal hardships for the travelling public. Despite the repeated allegations by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  that only the rich use airlines, they have become an accepted mode of travel for a wide cross-section of the Australian public and are now virtually an essential public service. The Opposition considers, therefore, that in the circumstances and despite the unusual nature of their employment, flight crew officers should be treated in the same way and according to the same rules as other people within the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
However, a much wider matter of principle is involved in the contents of this Bill. By its introduction the Government has, at long last, admitted- even if only by inference- the wisdom of having an independent tribunal to settle industrial disputes. The Government, in fact, has acknowledged what we have always stressed, both in government and opposition, that there are 3 parties to every industrial dispute- labour, management and the general public. By this Bill the Government again is saying what we have always said, that is, that where the public interest is affected by decisions coming from industrial disputes, the only institution available to protect the public interest, to exert some influence on the public's behalf, is the Commission. The Opposition hopes the legislation is a sign that the Government is reappraising the role of the Commission. 
However, even this Bill contains some subtle but significant indications of the Government's well known double standards approach. For example, let us look at the reference and appeal provisions. In this legislation the only criterion for reference or appeal is importance in the public interest. But on repeated occasions since coming to power this Government has tried to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act so that references and appeals can be made to a Full Bench only where the matter is considered to be of grave detriment to the public interest. The question I ask on behalf of the Opposition is why should everybody else under the Commission's jurisdiction have to be involved in a situation of grave detriment to the public interest before a reference or appeal can be made, but flight crew officer personnel should have to be involved only in a matter of importance to the public interest before a reference or appeal can be made. That is the first issue I raise. 
I stress the point that the Opposition does not oppose the wording of this Bill. It is consistent with what we have always insisted should be in the Act. But, as I mentioned a moment ago, the Government, once again, has demonstrated its double standards. The Minister's second reading speech stressed several times the intention that the flight crew officers should be put as nearly as possible in the same position as employees under the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's jurisdiction. But this Government wants to apply to flight crew officers standards which are different from those which the Government wants applied to other employees under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It looks as though the Government will be very brave and strong, and a great defender of the public interest, when it is dealing with flight crew officers, but will it demonstrate equal concern and determination to protect the public interest when it is confronted by financially and numerically powerful unions? We hope it will, and we will support it if it does. 
As I said before, perhaps this legislation is a sign that the Government has reappraised the role of the Commission. If the Government is genuine in the argument it puts forward in support of the reference and appeals provisions in this Bill, it must back the Commission against all union pressures, wherever those pressures come from- from the flight crew officers or anybody else. The Government's new found concern for the public interest may soon be put to the test. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and, I think, the Minister for Labor and Immigration have on numerous occasions said that excessive wage claims are the main cause of inflation and unemployment in this country. We are about to see another round of wage claims by major sections of Australian industry. If this Government really wants to protect the public interest and, indeed, the interests of all employees, wherever they are employed, it must use all the considerable influence that it possesses and all the resources at its disposal to argue the case of the need for wage restraint on every possible occasion it has a chance to do so. It will have the support of the Opposition if it takes this responsible attitude. 
But I must admit that my confidence in the Government's intentions was shaken at question time today when the Minister for Labor and Immigration indicated that if the wage indexation submission was not accepted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, he saw little cause to intervene in the metal trades case which will be considered subsequent to that decision. That was my understanding of what the Minister said. 
I am glad to have the confirmation of the Minister that my interpretation of his reply during question time today was correct. But that is the only thing about which I am glad, because I think that by taking that attitude the Minister has indicated that the Government is about to abrogate its responsibilities in a most vital economic field. By its actions in the wider cases before the Commission we will be able to judge whether this legislation really marks a new acceptance by the Government of its national responsibilities or whether it is just a bit of window-dressing, another example of double standards to be applied to a small section of the workforce when the really important economic decisions in matters affecting the nation as a whole will undoubtedly involve numerically large and financially powerful unions. When those cases come up that will be the test of the Government's sincerity in putting forward this legislation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
-The purpose of the Bill is to establish the Australian Trade Union Training Authority consisting of representatives of the Australian Council for Union Training plus representatives from the 6 State Councils. I will have more to say about the actual constitution of those councils later. The Opposition supports the principle of trade union training. So that the House will be aware of our policy in this respect I read from our employment and industrial relations policy which states: 
We support the concept of trade union training. We support the concept of a National Council for Trade Union Training. 
We would seek to have established in appropriate educational institutions programs specifically designed to meet the needs of trade unionists. To assist in that purpose, we support the concept of a National Council of Trade Union Education whose task it would be to develop special relationships with the appropriate educational institutions to see that the content of courses specifically met the needs of trade unions. Training would be required in a wide veriety of subjects at different levels to assist unionists in the execution of their official union duties. Subjects would include, among other things: the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act,  its principles and purposes the function and duties of shop stewards the question of union rules how to run an office  the relationship of branch and federal offices how to serve a log of claims how to seek variation of an award the provisions of workers compensation 
We strongly believe that appropriate courses should be conducted as far as practicable in existing educational and training institutions. Trade union education and training should not be shut off from other forms of education. Where subject matters overlap, courses should be conducted jointly for unionists and industrial officers. 
It will be seen from our policy that while the Government and the Opposition have a good deal in common in their objectives, we have very different ideas in how to achieve them. The Government clearly supports the separate approach. On the other hand, we on this side of the 
House strongly believe that trade union training should not and indeed cannot be isolated from the existing educational institutions, particularly those already involved in industrial relations courses. But we accept the necessity of special courses directed specifically towards union officials and potential union officials to train them to cope with the increasing complex demands being made on them. However, we do not see the best results coming from the isolated approach. Consequently, in government we would tackle what we recognise as a problem which requires government assistance from a much broader viewpoint. The validity of our attitude is confirmed by the 1974 International Organisation Convention on paid educational leave which, in article 6, states: 
The public authorities, employers' and workers' organisations, and institutions or bodies providing education and training shall be associated, in a manner appropriate to national conditions and practice, with the formulation and application of the policy for the promotion of paid educational leave. 
We intend, in due course, to move some minor amendments to the Bill in the Committee stage. They will indicate greater support for article 6 of the ILO Convention. I am quite aware that article 6 is based on the assumption that paid educational leave has been adopted by all parties concerned. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has outlined the growing acceptance of this concept in Australia. I have no doubt that the area of acceptance will grow. Therefore this legislation should take account of the changing circumstances. Nevertheless, the amendments which we intend moving recognise that paid educational leave is not mandatory in Australia at the present time. If it had been we would have moved for a truer tripartite approach with members of the Council coming from employer organisations as is foreshadowed in article 6 of the ILO Convention. 
We believe that Parliament should be represented on the National Council as it is on the Council of the Australian National University with one member nominated by the Prime Minister and one member nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. In addition there should be one member appointed on the nomination of the Minister for Education. It seems strange to us, to say the least, that recognition has been given at State level to the role of educationalists in this field but as the Bill comes to us here no such recognition exists at the national level. It will be seen that even if our amendments are adopted- as I hope they will be- union representatives will maintain a large majority on the Council. We accept this as reasonable but equally we believe that a council, constituted in the manner outlined, would be better equipped to develop a balanced and progressive approach to the betterment of industrial relations in Australia in addition to its prime requirements of achieving a more competent body of union officials. As I am sure the Minister will acknowledge, there is considerable support within the union movement for a broader based approach to union training. There is concern that courses could be used to promote political ideologies rather than produce better union officers. Indeed, I believe that attempts have been made along these lines. As far as I can ascertain they have not been successful. The Opposition believes that under no circumstances should public money be used to run courses for single unions. Of course, many unions now run their own courses at their own expense and, while the principle of this is perfectly sound, it is unfortunate that some of the courses are largely devoted to ideological indoctrination. For those who doubt that statement I quote from an article by an officer of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union on the AMWU training program. The article appeared in one of its journals. The officer writes: 
There is no doubt that it - 
That is, the AMWU training program-  has had quite an impact, as there are numbers of examples where previously docile workshops have become active, largely as a result of lessons and experiences taken away from schools. 
Later he states: 
There are pressures for combined worker/management courses which we, for example, won't have a bar of. 
Still speaking of trade union training programs, he says:   it has had, and will continue to have, a radicalising effect on the unions . . . Union training can help widen and deepen the challenge to capitalism. 
It is quite clear from these quotations that these courses are primarily directed towards, in the words used by the writer of the article, widening and deepening the gap between labor and management and not towards better industrial relations. They completely reject the concept of a partnership approach which would benefit all Australians, workers most of all. I suggest that the courses are based on old, outworn class warfare ideologies. Such courses have no place in modern Australia and especially should not be paid for by public money and run by the Authority established by this legislation. To ensure that Parliament and the public are kept fully informed on what is going on in the courses run under the auspices of the Authority, the Opposition proposes that the annual reports provided for in clause 57 of the Bill should include details of curricula and study undertaken. If the courses run reflect the rather constricted view put forward in the second reading speech by the Minister for Labor and Immigration, Australia would have lost a golden opportunity to provide a wider vision for union training. 
The Opposition and significant elements in the union movement believe that there should be much more emphasis on overall training and a recognition that basic to aU industrial relations is a knowledge and understanding of human relations. This will be quite difficult, if not impossible, to achieve in the sort of separatist, isolated structure proposed by this legislation. An example of what can be done is provided by the courses run by the Department of Labor Relations and Consumer Affairs in Queensland. These courses are open to aU with a legitimate interest in industrial relations and utilise group discussion techniques as part of the training to enable trade union officials and industrial officers to gain an appreciation and an understanding of each other's point of view. These courses have demonstrated their effectiveness and the Opposition wants an assurance from the Minister that there will be no attempt by this Authority to take over or eliminate such courses. 
This raises an important point. Courses such as I have described have been run with great success by universities and colleges of advanced education and they must not be allowed to wither away just because students attending courses run by the Authority or the State councils will be paid to do so. I ask the Minister: Will the Authority be allotting some of its funds to enable existing institutions which have demonstrated their ability to run effective courses in union training and industrial relations to continue their valuable work. It seems to the Opposition that such courses, which provide some diversity and an alternative to those run by the Authority, should be encouraged. 
However, in this context there would need to be clarification of the function outlined in clause 5 (c) of the Bill which refers to co-ordination of trade union training in Australia- I draw the attention of the Minister particularly to this aspect of it- 'including that performed by bodies and institutions other than the colleges' and trade union training centres. I ask the Minister: Could this give the Authority power to control future or existing training programs at universities and colleges of advanced education and technical colleges, such as I referred to a moment ago, which are conducting courses, even where the Authority had made no financial contribution to them? If this is so, it would create an intolerable situation whereby the Authority could interfere with autonomous educational institutions. I feel sure that this is not the intention of the legislation but we want the Minister to confirm that the Authority will not be permitted to operate in that way. 
The Opposition recognises that there could be difficulties in providing all the necessary facilities in existing institutions. For example, in the early stages at least, a great majority of courses will presumably be of short duration, perhaps a week or two, or on a part-time basis. We recognise that longer courses could require residential accommodation. While existing institutions would probably find difficulty in incorporating such courses within their existing facilities, we consider that for the reasons given earlier the money which will be spent under this legislation, or at any rate a proportion of it, would be better spent expanding existing institutions to cope with the new responsibilities which they would incur in respect of trade union training. There are great opportunities and challenges facing Australia in this field. We could be taking a lead in providing courses in industrial relations for international students, such as is currently done by the Cornell and Harvard Universities in the United States of America. 
It is sad to see, with this opportunity before us, the narrow isolative view of the legislation. With his long experience, both in the union movement and the Parliament, I would have expected a much wider appreciation by the Minister of the issues involved. As I said a moment ago, the Opposition recognises that special courses are required to improve the knowledge of union officials and potential union officials' in areas such as the various industrial Acts, the tribunals -especially the working of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- the preparation and presentation of cases, the conduct of negotiations, the role of the job delegate, how to run an office, the growing importance of women in the work force with the majority of them being married, and so on. However, the Opposition believes that nominations for courses should not be confined only to those coming from the trade union hierarchy. It should be the objective of courses to ensure a fair representation of, for example, the rank and file, and a fair representation of women. Would the Authority be free to fund courses to inform members of organisations who may not be entirely satisfied with the conduct of their organisations on how to seek redress through the rules of their organisation to the stage where they could, say, become legitimate challengers in union elections? These things are just a start and it would be a tragedy if in concentrating on the grass roots aspects, important as they are, we did not see the wood for the trees. 
The ability and competence of trade union officials bears a direct relationship not only to stability on the job but also to the stability of national industrial relations. This has not been recognised in this legislation. Unless there is evidence of a wider appreciation of all the issues involved there inevitably will be a strong suspicion on the part of employer organisations about the motives of trade union training. Most employers and their organisations are on record as supporting the principle of trade union training but, understandably, they have reservations about this legislation. In the past there have been occasions when they have co-operated with the union movement by granting leave to employees, sometimes with pay, to attend training courses ostensibly designed to improve thenknowledge and ability in trade union matters, only to find that the participants in these courses had been bombarded with anti-employer propaganda. 
In those circumstances it is understandable that employers would resent paying employees for time lost attending training courses and meeting the cost of replacing them for the duration of the course, only to find that an employee, upon returning to the firm, had become dedicated to destroying the partnership approach to industrial relations. If trade union officials attending these courses come back with this sort of attitude, it will set back the cause of trade union training by years and accentuate, instead of allay, old antagonisms. I recognise, and the Opposition recognises, that it is probably impossible, by legislation, to insure against this happening. But the authority will be judged by its performance and its output as are all educational and training institutions. It therefore bears a particularly heavy responsibility in its early stages to ensure that the results of its operations are seen to make a positive contribution to a better industrial climate in Australia. Otherwise there is a real danger that antagonisms could be increased rather than reduced. One way in which such a possibility could be minimised is to enable anyone with a legitimate interest in industrial relations I use that phrase in the way it is used in the Queensland courses- to be given the opportunity to participate in the courses without discrimination. I draw that point to the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration, perhaps for his comment. There are some other aspects of the legislation which require the Minister's comment in due course. 
One aspect concerns the administration of the legislation rather than a particular clause. If the authority is to do its job properly, even in the narrow way in which it is structured, it will require the best people in its councils- both national and State- and on its staff. Any attempt to make this authority yet another vehicle for jobs for the boys- a well known technique of this Government- will be self-defeating. This authority and the organisations comprising it must not become a repository for defeated Austalian Labor Party candidates or politicians. I give notice that we will be watching this aspect closely. Another doubtful provision is that relating to the tenure of office of members of the National Council and the State councils. 
I note that most members hold office until they retire or have their appointments terminated. I recognise the fact that these people are presumably representing the views of organisations and are continually personally involved. I make it quite clear that I am not casting any personal aspersions against individuals, but in these circumstances their continual personal involvement could lead to unnecessary inhibitions or restrictions upon the adoption of new training ideas or programs. It seems to me that in assessing this legislation, the question which must be asked is: Does this Bill deal in the best way possible with the training of trade union leadership, bearing in mind the needs of the Australian community? The Opposition has grave doubts as to whether it does. 
In our view communication, understanding and an adequate standard of objectivity in individual relations cannot be achieved by separating the major parties involved. The parties themselves recognise this as is seen from their own training courses. Trade union leaders are frequent speakers at employer courses and employers or officers of their associations often attend trade union organised activities. Far from stimulating these encouraging developments, this legislation will tend to inhibit them. Trade unionists seeking training will go to the courses run by the national and State councils but fewer will be going to them with a broad base. This will inevitably lead to an increasingly introspective attitude in the union movement and who, apart from the left wing militant unions, believe that that will be an improvement. If the Minister is genuinely concerned about achieving better industrial relations by increasing the competence and expertise of the participants of the courses, I think he should be talking about raising the levels all round- not just for one section. 
I suggest that it is nonsense for the Minister to say that the framework which he is setting up is to redress an alleged imbalance because of the substantial Government contribution to the Aus.tralian School of Management. I remind him that graduates from this school are just as available to the union movement and to government as they are to private industry. We are seeing an encouraging development whereby more and more graduates are taking up positions with the trade union movement. It is no longer true to say that university education benefits only the private sector. The Minister should compare like with like in this context. That would mean comparing facilities for trade union training with facilities for training officers of employer organisations who are, after all, the opposite numbers of trade unions in the industrial relations area. The Opposition would welcome an indication from the Minister that he is aware of this need, and that he is consistent in his attitude to training in the industrial relations field. If he were consistent, he would set up a proper industrial relations training program suited to the needs of the Australian situation and recognising that the major institutional framework for handling industrial relations in this country is built around the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Such a program should cater for the education and research needs of aU organisations engaged in the field of industrial relations. I suggest that consideration could be given to providing a consultative service for organisations, enterprises and individuals who need advice on sources of information and methods of handling particular problems. 
Industrial relations should not be a party political plaything to be dealt with according to the attitude of which political party happens to be in power. The Opposition believes it desirable that a bi-partisan approach should be aimed at to sweep away outdated notions about the balance of industrial power and the need to reduce the supposed advantage held by employers. The facts are that the trade unions and trade union confederations now wield tremendous power in the community. Many trade unions have greater resources and facilities than employer associations, and in almost aU cases of confrontation between a trade union and an enterprise, it is the community, the public interest, which suffers from any imbalance of power. To put it in another way, trade union training and industrial relations educational training generally at institutional level are something from which the whole community should benefit and in the conduct of which the whole community should participate. 
The Opposition considers that regrettably the likely result of this legislation will be that the attitude of 'we' and 'them' which has so bedevilled industrial relations in Australia may be perpetuated and reinforced. As I have already indicated in this speech, the Opposition strongly supports the principle of trade union training and the establishment of a national authority to ensure that its continuity is properly protected by legislation. For this reason, and although if in government we would adopt a different approach, we will be moving only minimum amendments to this Bill, as I foreshadowed earlier in my speech, for the sake of establishing a broader base on which to build and to enable the objectives of this legislation to be achieved, and on which both sides of the Parliament agree. I hope that the amendments will be acceptable to the Government. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (1) add the following paragraphs: '(g) 1 member of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia appointed by the Prime Minister; '(h) 1 member of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia appointed by the Leader of the Opposition; and "(i) 1 member appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Minister for Education. '. 
I move: 
After sub-clause ( 1 ) insert the following sub-clause: ( lA) A report referred to in sub-section (1) shall include details of the syllabuses and study undertaken at the College and at each of the Trade Union Training Centres. '. 
-Just very briefly, on behalf of the Opposition I should like to thank the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for his cooperation in making this a better Bill. 
asked the Special Minister of State and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
How many public servants were receiving allowances under regulation 97 of the Public Service Act for accommodation in (a) houses, (b) flats, (c) hotels, (d) motels, (e) guest houses and (f) hostels, as at 1 July in each of the years 1972, 1973 and 1974, and what did this subsidy cost the Government for each item in each of the financial years preceding these dates. 
-No wonder we are in a hopeless position. The Treasurer of Australia  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has just said that the productivity increases in the Australian economy normally run at 5 per cent to 10 per cent a year. The point I make is that the Treasurer does not even know the difference between increases in gross domestic product and increases in productivity. In fact productivity increases in Australia over a long term period have risen on an average of about 2 per cent a year. No wonder the economic position is so hopeless and out of control when the Treasurer himself does not even know what he is talking about. 
While he did talk about the national wage case, he just skated over the metal trades case. There was no mention of the public division between himself and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on this question. That is what is relevant today. That is what is interesting people today. The Treasurer is a great champion of indexation yet his Government is right now in the process of destroying it. 
He said before that catch-up provisions did not apply in the metal trades case. Now he says that they do apply. His consistency in this respect is about on a par with the Government's economic policy as a whole. There is no consistency whatever. 
There are about 265 000 people who would dearly like to tell the Government what they think of it but who will not get a chance to speak in this debate. They are the people thrown out of work by this Government which allegedly represents them. There are over 30000 more who have lost their permanent jobs and who are just hanging on in temporary jobs in one of the Government's hotch-potch of alphabetical schemes such as RED, the Regional Employment Development scheme; NEAT, the National Employment and Training scheme; SANMA, the plan for structural adjustment to non-metropolitan areas; and the rest of them. They would like to speak too. There are thousands of school leavers who will not get a job in this their first year of adult life. They will not be impressed by some academic argument about catch-up provisions and that sort of jargon. What they want is a chance to earn a living. It is the school leavers who are the hidden victims of the unemployment figures. They probably do not know it, but their fate can be found in the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures which showed a rise of over 13 000 last month. These cold hard figures, the significance of which is not widely understood, mean that between 15 000 and 20 000 school leavers will not get a job this year, and this economically illiterate Government is the reason they cannot. The Government's failure to understand what it is doing is the reason we are in such an economic morass today. Not having understood what it is doing, it is not surprising that the Government's predictions have been totally wrong. For months the Government has been saying that the economic situation would be picking up and that unemployment would be on the way down. It was wrong, and the actions and decisions of the last 3 days make it certain that it will keep on being wrong. There is no chance of a recovery until business confidence has been restored. What chances there were of this happening have been completely shattered by the Government's spineless, disgraceful attitude in the metal trades case. The tragedy is that the mess need never have happened. The origin of today's uncontrolled inflation, unemployment higher than at any time since the depression and prices rising at what can only be described as a frightening rate is directly attributable to the Government's economic mismanagement. The origin can be traced back to the pacesetter principle. 
Who was the author of that disastrous concept? None other than the Minister for Labor and Immigration. We all remember during the early days in office of the Australian Labor Party Government his exhortations to the Public Service to press for higher salaries and wages. Not surprisingly, the Public Service took his advice. They got their increase all right, and very quickly the results flowed through to private industry. Like the sorcerer's apprentice, the Minister soon found out that he had started something over which he had absolutely no control. By the time he recognised his mistake it was too late. The inflationary horse was off and bolting. 
The Government's ignorance of how to manage the Australian economy soon showed in other areas. Its next target was business profits. We were told that profits were the ogre responsible for high prices and inflation. So the Prices Justification Tribunal was established and specifically given the job of clamping down on profits. Again the Government failed to comprehend what it was doing. Whether the Government likes it or not- obviously it does not like it- 75 per cent of employment in Australia is in the private sector. When the private sector is continually kicked in the teeth, not surprisingly it loses confidence and scales down investment, and with this scaling down go new job opportunities. Add to this situation the impact of huge wage increases, higher company tax, abolition of export incentives, decreased depreciation allowances and a continual stream of anti-private enterprise propaganda from the Government, and confidence disappears altogether- and no wonder. 
Then the economic realities of life started to make themselves felt. Suddenly 'profits' was not such a dirty word after all. The Prices Justification Tribunal was told to take a different attitude and to recognise the fact that if a company does not make profits it goes broke. If it goes broke people lose their jobs. The staggering thing is that it took this Government so long to face the most elementary facts of economic life. One does not have to be an economic genius to recognise them, but the Australian Labor Party has been so blinded by its socialist ideology that it just refused to believe that the inevitable would happen. But happen it did, and with a vengeance. We are now suffering the consequences of this blind adherence to a discredited economic theory. 
One of the great tragedies of the situation which the Government has created is that the first people hurt are those who can afford it least- the lower paid members of the community, who are usually the first to lose their jobs in an economic downturn, and those on fixed incomes, who are hardest hit by rising prices. This Government claims to represent those people. That is nothing but a confidence trick, and more and more people are waking up to it. In its misguided efforts to put into practice its hopelessly impractical policies, the Government is destroying its own base of support. Perhaps the first member of the Government to recognise the problem was the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  and it is no coincidence that he was sacked. The previous Treasurer put the situation succinctly when he said that the stage had been reached when a rise in one man's pay packet could cost another man his job. What an admission from a Minister in a Labor Government. I wonder what the Minister for Labor and Immigration thought about this exposure of the results of his own deliberate policy. 
Then the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  not noted for his grasp of economic affairs, came to the brilliant conclusion that excessive wage and salary rises were the principal cause of inflation and unemployment in Australia. It seemed that there was some glimmer of hope that understanding was beginning to filter through the ideological fog which still envelops the Labor Government. We started to hear a lot about the word 'indexation'. The Minister for Labor and Immigration argued that, if only wage indexation were introduced, inflation would be well on the way to being controlled. Indexation would persuade the trade union movement to restrict its wage claims to rises in the consumer price index and national productivity. The Minister, through public statements and in the Parliament, put tremendous pressure on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to introduce indexation. Despite its grave misgivings, which are so clearly evident in the decision in the national wage case, the Full Bench introduced indexation for a trial period. 
But then what did we see? Suddenly the Minister for Labor and Immigration lost all his evangelical fervour for indexation. Faced with the need to defend his new-born child by opposing wage claims of the metal trades going far beyond indexation, the Minister went to water. Not only that, the Government went to water with him. In what must be the most gutless exhibition ever by an Australian Government, the Labor Government has run away from its responsibilities to the Australian people. And there, like the Duke of Plaza Toro, leading his troops from behind, was the brave Minister for Labor and Immigration. The Minister has refused to fire the only shot left in the Government's anti-inflation locker. Worse than that, he has deliberately sabotaged what was at least an attempt to bring some rationality and sanity to what has become the uncontrolled and frightening wage and price spiral. 
The result will inevitably be higher inflation and rising unemployment. This result can be laid fairly and squarely at the feet of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It was he who persuaded Cabinet against the declared opposition of the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland),  to back off and abandon the Australian people to inflation. By doing so he has forfeited all right to respect. He has to go. He stands condemned by the economic chaos which surrounds us. It could be said of the Minister for Labor and Immigration, like  Sir Christopher  Wren, 'si monumentum requiris, circumspice'. What a monument when the country and all the people in it are in such a mess, and when over 250 000 cannot get a job. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What were the administrative costs, including salaries and all related expenses and the rental value of the office space, incurred by the Office of the Commissioner of Housing in the A.C.T., in the most recent year for which statistics are available. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What action does he propose to take to overcome the critical shortage of accommodation for tertiary students in Canberra? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he refer to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory the issues involved in the development of Sections 7, 8 and 9, Reid, Australian Capital Territory. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It refers to an issue raised earlier by the honourable member for Gellibrand. When did the Minister learn about the survey carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in about September last year, which indicated that about one-fifth of those claiming the unemployment benefit were not entitled to it? When did he start taking action to stop this abuse? What action has he taken so far? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Funher to question No. 1406 in which I sought information on the number of social workers employed by his Department and in the A.C.T. in general, will he provide details of the dates of appointment of each of the 22 positions of social worker in his Department. 
What are the names of the people currently filling these positions. 
What qualifications do they have. 
What is their previous work experience. 
How many positions of social worker allocated to his departmental establishment are unfilled at the present time. 
Will he instigate an inquiry into the total number of social workers in the A.C.T. and the work they perform, in order that he can make a better assessment of the adequacy of the number of social workers that have been allocated to his Department, and whether there is unnecessary duplication in the work undertaken by Government employee social welfare workers and those employed by other organisations in the A.C.T. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
How many aircraft, both fixed and rotary-wing, have been (a) lost or written off and (b) damaged while under contract to the Antarctic Division during each summer expedition since 30 November 1968, including the present expedition. 
What was the cost as applicable to the Government in each of these cases. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Who will be the tenants of the proposed A.C.T. Health Commission building. 
Will any elements of Medibank be housed in this building. 
-The proof of the point contained in the matter of public importance submitted by the Opposition for discussion- 'the continuing failure of the Government's employment policies'- is unfortunately all too obvious. Our present economic mess is graphic evidence that the Labor Government does not have a clue on how to manage the Austraiian economy or maintain full and secure employment. It has gone from disaster to disaster. After each successive miscalculation it has tried desperately to repair the damage it has caused. These are the actions of a government which is rushing in without knowing what it is doing, without having thought through the consequences of its so-called policies. In broad terms, the Government has quadrupled the rate of inflation and more than doubled the rate of unemployment since coming to power- and this in a country with perhaps more natural advantages than any other in the world, a country largely insulated from the inflationary effects of the rise in oil prices, a country rich in resources with a well-educated and skilled work force. 
One would think that even the Labor Party would have some difficulty in wiping out all these advantages, but not a bit of it. It succeeded, if that is the right word, in reducing a prosperous, progressive country to chaos in a couple of years. The Government is now discovering that it is much easier to create chaos than to clear it up. The Government has belatedly admitted that inflation is the basic cause of our difficulties. It has even admitted that the principal cause of inflation is excessive wage and salary rises far in excess of national productivity gains. But that is where the Government baulked. Having finally got round to identifying the cause, it is now apparent that the Government lacks the courage to fight it. The tragedy is that unless the Government tackles inflation it is absolutely certain that the unemployment situation will get worse since if there is one thing that we know for a fact, it is that inflation will not cure itself. For months the Government has been saying that by now the economy would be picking up and that unemployment would be on the way down. The Government was wrong and it will keep on being wrong until business confidence, a delicate flower at any time, has been restored. The chances of this happening are getting more remote every day and the reasons are not hard to find. 
This Government started off believing that it could transfer resources from the private sector to the public sector and still maintain employment. It started off believing that it could increase Government spending as if money was going out of fashion and could still contain inflation. When unemployment skyrocketed to levels which we have not seen in Australia since the depression, and inflation got out of control, the Government started the series of panic measures I mentioned earlier. It is now bewildered because the measures are not working. The Government just does not understand how to manage the country's economy. The message has got through loud and clear to all forms of business in this country. Investment has slowed to a trickle and shows no signs of recovering. Jobs are not being created because, in the words of the previous Treasurer, the stage has been reached where an increase in one man's pay packet will cost another man his job. The Government has tried to disguise the real seriousness of the employment situation by a patchwork quilt ragbag of so-called schemes. We have the Special Assistance for Non-Metropolitan Areas schemeSANMA the Regional Employment Development scheme- RED- the National Employment and Training scheme- NEAT- and the Structural Adjustment Assistance scheme- SAA- and goodness knows what else. 
Let us look at each of those schemes in turn, beginning with the SANMA scheme. Having put thousands of people out of work, closed some firms and almost bringing to the point of closure dozens of other firms, the Government realised that it has better do something about the situation. So it put out a list of Government miscalculations and mistakes and said that firms affected by those miscalculations and mistakes would be entitled to assistance under the SANMA scheme. One of the criteria was the effect of the 25 per cent tariff cut. As some honourable members in this House will be aware, for years I have strongly argued in favour of tariff reform. But this Government's hasty indiscriminate action on tariffs has set back rational tariff reform by years. That may well turn out to be the single most serious effect of the Government's economic mismanagement. 
But to get back to the SANMA scheme, the scheme was an open admission by the Government that it had been wrong. In its attempts to get out of trouble it has created dangerous precedents, spent a lot of taxpayers' money, some of it even without the authority of Parliament, and has solved nothing. To the best of my knowledge about 39 companies have received over $4.5m. From a study of the list, it is obvious that the original guidelines have been completely disregarded. This has even been admitted by one of the firms concerned- M. B. John and Co. which received $125,000. The  chairman  is reported as saying that the whole situation has been brought about by the general economy rather than the tariff cut specifically. I am not blaming this firm or the other 30-odd firms which have received assistance under this scheme. They are the victims of the hopeless ineptitude of the Government. The Government has abandoned all pretence of making structural adjustment by the recipient companies, a prerequisite for the grants as set out in the document of the Department of Manufacturing Industry of 25 October 1974. The Government is just throwing money around in a completely haphazard way, reacting to political pressures. 
There must be serious doubts whether in fact many of the grants comply with the legislation. In some instances, even if the grants do comply with the structural adjustment legislation, they clearly subvert the recommendations of 2 other Government instrumentalities- the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority. The $650,000 payment to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills was completely contrary to the express advice of the Temporary Assistance Authority. In fact there was no legislative backing for it. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  admitted on 8 May that there was no legislative authority for the payment of this money. What sort of madness is this? Since when can a Government give away $650,000 of taxpayers' money without any authority? It is a measure of the Government's desperation that it has resorted to such practices which are in fact illegal. It is a measure of the Government's confusion that recommendations made by Government authorities one day are promptly contradicted by legislation introduced the next. 
Next we have the RED scheme formed for the same purpose, that is, to give employment to those put out of work by the Government's policies. According to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  not less than 24 000 people are now employed under the RED scheme. In 1974-75 the scheme is estimated to cost at least $1 14m. Many of the projects which have been completed, or which are now in progress, are excellent in themselves. Many of them are in my own electorate. However there are 2 basic deficiencies in this scheme as it stands today. Firstly, it is completely ad hoc in nature. There are no guidelines which would enable automatic implementation of the scheme when structural or regional unemployment reached a certain level. Secondly, it is hopelessly cumbersome and bureaucratic in its administration. It is ridiculous to expect a Federal department to be able to make judgments on the priorities to be given to projects of a purely local nature. The Government has to some extent minimised this problem by enabling smaller grants to be approved at the State level. However the principle is wrong. The administration should be carried out by those closest to the problem, and that is local government. Above all, not one permanent job has been created. The cost, I remind the House, will be about $ 1 14m. 
Next we have the NEAT scheme- excellent in concept but again let down by the plain inability of overworked officers of the Department to process applications quickly and with due regard to personal problems. Some married women who do not need assistance get it; others with the same criteria for eligibility are refused. There appears to be some evidence that all married women are discriminated against to some degree. As a consequence of misleading advertising in pamphlets, people are leaving their jobs, being refused assistance under the NEAT scheme, and are left with no means of support. The eligibility criteria appear to be changed without the public being informed. The operation of the scheme is often in direct contrast to the recommendations of the Cochrane report on retraining. People who previously would have received benefits under older schemes which NEAT has absorbed, apparently do not now qualify for anything. There have been incredible delays in the administration of the scheme. 
I should like to cite a few case histories. There is the case of a man who retired after 23 years in the Army. He has a wife and 2 teenage children. He has received a letter from the Education Department explaining his automatic transfer from the former servicemen's scheme to the NEAT scheme. This transfer has never taken place.  His  file has been lost twice by the Commonwealth Employment Service. There is another case of a woman who applied for and was granted housewife's retraining last year. She applied for assistance this year under the NEAT scheme and was turned down. She has 5 children and a husband to look after. There is the case of a man aged 26 years who has been in the work force 8 years and is completely unqualified. He applied to the Prahran Commonwealth Employment Service in October 1974. He has not heard from the CES since. He has not been either accepted or rejected in the 4 months. 
I mention next the case of a woman who received some help through the widows retraining scheme last year. She was informed that the scheme was to be transferred to NEAT. Since then, under NEAT, she has received no money at all. I refer next to a single woman, aged 30 years, who was in the work force for 15 years in unskilled occupations. She has been on unemployment benefit since the beginning of November of last year, yet she was refused retraining because she had a 'marketable skill '. I go on to the case of a 24-year-old ex-national serviceman. He was rejected because his training was 'considered continuation of initial education'. He was doing the same course which made him eligible for assistance in the first place. Finally, I mention the case of a man, aged 26, unskilled and under the threat of retrenchment. He took the initiative, left his job and applied for NEAT retraining. He has been penalised because he took the initiative himself. About 9000 people are under retraining now through this scheme at a cost which is estimated this year to be about $22m. 
I turn next to structural adjustment assistance, or the income maintenance scheme. This must be the most inequitable of all the rag bag of government programs. People who lost their jobs because of tariff cuts virtually received a paid holiday at about 85 per cent of their previous earnings while those put out of work as a result of the general downturn in business activities received only unemployment benefits at the standard rates. Both were victims of the policies of this Government, yet one group has received benefits nearly 3 times as high as those paid to the other. Nothing illustrates more clearly the muddleheaded directionless attempt by the Government to correct its mistakes. This inequitable scheme is to cost taxpayers about $55m this financial year. 
Finally, there are the two biggest items of all. I refer to the $240m for the States to create employment and an estimated $2 10m for unemployment benefits. What a story can be told about unemployment benefits. There is a discrepancy of more than 50 000 between the figures on unemployment from the Department of Labor and Immigration and unemployment figures from the Bureau of Statistics. Which figures are right? One thing is certain; they cannot both be right. Tens of thousands of those registered as unemployed in fact have jobs. Thousands have given fictitious addresses. All told, the grand total of more than $650m has been required this financial year to pay for the mismanagement of the economy by this Government. 
At present, 265 000 people are registered for employment. Over 30 000 more are hidden from view in all these expensive schemes set up by the Government. Perhaps most significant of all is the message of the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures which indicate that 15 000 to 20 000 school leavers will not get a job this year. What a way for these school leavers to start their adult life. What an indictment of the Government. What a disgrace in this once prosperous and vigorous country.  Mr Minister,  you are a failure. Your Government is a failure. Your socialist policies have been tried in Australia and they are a failure. And, remember, you cannot bury your failures under a mountain of funny money whether we print it ourselves or get it from one of the comic opera deals of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor). 
-As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said, most of the amendments are consequential on those which the Opposition moved in the House of Representatives and which were accepted by the Government and the Senate. Most of the amendments referred to required alterations to the Bill consequent on members of Parliament becoming members of the Council, with the one exception mentioned by the Minister- that of the power of delegation held by the Council. This is perfectly acceptable to the Opposition, and it is in context with amendment No. 9 referring to the powers of delegation. I thank the Minister for his co-operation in limiting the power of delegation, which as originally proposed was very wide. All the amendments moved by the Minister are acceptable to the Opposition. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-This small, apparently simple Bill cloaks one of the most intractable industrial relations problems in Australia. The Bill has great and increasing significance for all citizens, even though many of them may not realise it. But it has greatest significance for exporters. The Australian waterfront has always had a stormy history. Certainly not all the faults have been on one side. There were highly undesirable practices on the part of employers many years ago and the legacy of bitterness of those days is with us still today. I do not intend to go over all the history, but we do need to look at what has happened since 1967 when, following the Woodward report, a scheme of permanent employment was introduced on the waterfront. Everyone had great hopes for a new era. There was to be a new employeremployee relationship; the bad old days were finished. 
Unfortunately, the high hopes that were held for the future of waterfront employment were not realised. There was a brief period of much reduced industrial trouble, but gradually the situation deteriorated until now we are just about back where we started, but with one huge difference: Costs have got completely out of control. That is the crux of the problem which is facing us today. The permanent employment scheme, while it has undoubtedly brought great benefits to a very few- the waterside workershas imposed enormous increases in costs on the vast majority of Australians. The vast majority includes all consumers of imported products since a larger and larger proportion of the retail price of goods imported into Australia is represented by shipping and stevedoring charges. In the case of exports a larger and larger proportion of the value is swallowed up by the same means, that is, shipping and stevedoring costs. It is vital to remember that the two are in reality, one and the same. Since stevedoring companies in many instances are controlled by overseas ship owners, increasing stevedoring costs are soon reflected in increased freight rates. I shall be returning to that central issue later, but in the meantime it is important to remember that the benefits gained by waterside workers have been at the expense of lowering the purchasing power and the standard of living of every Australian who buys any imported goods and at a cost to every Australian exporter. 
Let us now look at the waterfronts since the introduction of permanent employment. Following a dramatic reduction in man-hours lost through stoppages from 1966 to 1968, the figure of 4 per cent of man-hours worked was higher in 1973-74 than for 16 years. The figures for wages lost were also the highest since 1964. So there has been no overall improvement in these areas. Productivity has increased in the handling of some products, but not in all. For example, wool handling has about the same productivity performance now as it had 10 years ago, that is, about 0.35 tonnes per man-hour. Where productivity has increased markedly, it has usually been at the cost of enormously expensive capital investment such as in containers and their associated handling equipment. 
The central problem as has been spelt out on many occasions in this place, particularly by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is that the employers of waterside labour are beholden to ship owners for their business and give in to every unreasonable demand made upon them. Shipowners would rather pay more for stevedoring than have their ships tied up. I admit that this is understandable, but the point is that they do not end up paying for it. It is always easy to buy one's way out of trouble if one is using somebody else's money, the money in this case belonging to Australian exporters. 
A depressing side issue, but nonetheless an important one is the reference in the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority annual report for 1 973-74 to the deplorable failure of employers of waterside labour to exercise appropriate and consistent control in relation to undesirable, undisciplined behaviour by a minority of waterside workers. I draw the attention of the House to this point. It is most significant that the people who nave expressed concern at this situation are responsible members and offices of the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia. It would be difficult to imagine a more damning commentary on any employer group in Australia. It is part of the problem which has brought about the need for this legislation. As honourable members know, a charge is levied under this legislation on a man-hour basis on all employers of waterside labour. The charge is used to fund a variety of purposes, but by far the most important in financing terms, is idle time, that is, the time for which waterside workers are paid even though they are not working. This charge has been successively increased over the years, each increase in due course being passed on in the form of increased freight rates. 
The finances of the ASIA are in more or less perpetual trouble, and no wonder when we look at the figures for idle time. Last year, a year of greatly increased imports, the cost of idle time fell from $6.4m in the year before to $3.6m. But this substantial improvement was short lived. A combination of greatly reduced imports and costs incurred as a result of recruiting additional waterside workers to cope with the high level of imports in 1974 and above all, a new national waterfront wage agreement granting increases in minimum pay of between 26 per cent and 30 per cent, plus a 25 per cent loading on annual leave, have sent idle time costs right through the roof. 
Sitting suspended from  6 to 8  p.m. 
-When the sitting was suspended this evening, I was explaining to the House that the costs involved in stevedoring in Australia had been very significantly affected in recent days by a new national waterfront wage agreement which had had the effect of granting increases of between 26 per cent and 30 per cent in the minimum wage, and a 25 per cent loading on annual leave. I was explaining that the effect of this national wage agreement had been to send the idle time costs right through the roof. 
I remind the House that the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill that we are debating now is concerned principally, so far as the financial aspects of it are concerned, with paying for the cost of idle time on the waterfront. My information is that idle time is now running at an average of about 10 000 man days a week at a cost of approximately $28 a man. According to the information that I have, that works out at about $ 15m a year. 
It is $ 15m a year for idle time. That is the current rate. But I am informed that last week idle time was approximately 14 000 man days costing approximately $420,000. I would suggest to the House that that just cannot goon. 
It will break us, as the honourable member for Wakefield so rightly says. As an example of the situation in which we are today, I cite an instance that is set out in the annual report for 1973-74 of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The example is given of a week in Melbourne when one employer had a surplus of 2954 man days of labour which cost the Authority over $50,000 for idle time. But in the same week, in the same port, other employers were short of 1877 man days of labour. In that week alone $32,000 was paid in wages for 1877 wasted man days of locked up idle time. 
Many other equally absurd examples can be found in the ASIA annual report. The cost of these absurdities will increase rapidly with the further wage rises which apply from May this year. In total, these wage rises amount to approximately 30 per cent. The mind boggles at what will happen when the full effect of these costs is felt, first in the costs on the waterfront, and then, as inevitably as night follows day, in freight rises. My information is that all of these increases will lead to a 40 per cent rise in stevedoring costs compared with the costs on 1 May this year. That is the situation today. I repeat: Compared with costs a month ago, these increases will lead to a 40 per cent rise in charges. No industry can stand this. 
It has been put to the Opposition that a more equitable way of calculating the levy would be on a tonnage cubic measure basis rather than on a man-hour basis. Clearly, the present method disadvantages those stevedores working convention cargo as distinct from container and bulk cargo. Conventional shipping is still important, especially in trade with the developing countries of Asia and the Pacific. The Opposition believes that there may be some merit in altering the basis of calculating the charge, but this would involve a very careful consideration of the many highly complex factors involved. For example, one factor which would have to be kept in mind would be the danger of attracting cargoes away from the most efficient method of shipping. Another factor would be the need to balance the importance of a relatively small percentage of our total trade against the interests of our major customers and suppliers. Other reasons involve the lack of time ana the lack of detailed information. For these reasons we have decided not to move amendments of this kind to the legislation but we bring the problem to the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  as being worthy of careful consideration. 
In any case, the charge is only fiddling with the big problem, which is the structure of waterfront employment in Australia. As I have indicated, this enables unions to pick off employers one by one and to force them to concede to quite unreasonable demands because the employers, for their part, are subservient to the interests of the overseas shipping companies whose main concern is not the costs imposed on Australian consumers and exporters but to keep their ships moving. It is a classic case of 'I'm all right, Jack', with the Australian community paying for the feather-bedding and cosy deals benefiting a very small number of people. 
-Sweetheart agreements, as the honourable member for Wakefield so accurately observes. We must be able to develop a better system. This has been recognised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. In a speech which he made last year on the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill he stated: 
While recommending an extension of the temporary legislation for a further 2 years, it would be my intention to indicate to the Parliament the Government's proposals for the industry well before the expiry of that period. Extending the life of the Act will not of course preclude the introduction of permanent legislation at an earlier date if this proves feasible. Indeed, an earlier date for permanent legislation is desirable. 
-That is the whole question. I am coming to it now. The Opposition agrees with the Minister and therefore will be moving some amendments to this Bill. They are designed to give the Minister a little gentle encouragement in getting permanent legislation before the House. 
The Bill makes provision for setting the maximum rates of charge- with the actual rates being set by regulation-at $2.50, $3.50 and $2.50 for class A, B and C waterside workers respectively. According to the information available to me, it seems that the rate will be set by regulation at about $2.20 for class A waterside workers. That is over 50 per cent more than the current rate which is charged, namely, $1.40. We propose to move amendments to reduce this charge to $2.25, $3.20 and $2.25 for the respective classes of waterside workers. I am informed that that will be sufficient for present purposes. If further increases are required, it will be a signal that the costs for idle time and other purposes for which this charge is used have got completely out of hand. In these circumstances we believe that it is reasonable that the Government should have to come back to the Parliament so that the whole sorry business can be exposed. I emphasise that that is the reason for the amendment. We are not seeking to prevent the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority from carrying out its statutory obligation, which it does with great dedication and under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. 
Another problem facing the Authority is the contingent liability for long service leave, now standing at over $20m. Incidentally, a measure of the attractiveness of this industry may be that so few waterside workers take long service leave when they become entitled to it. This huge hability is something which could well receive the attention of the Government and the industry. It is the sort of issue which I imagine is being investigated by the Minister's troubleshooter on the waterfront,  Mr Foster.  That raises the question of  Mr Foster's  long promised report. While I am pleased to have the long awaited report which was presented to Parliament earlier today, I make the point that little time has been given to honourable members to study it in any detail. I am hopeful that at least some of my colleagues may be able to refer to the report later in this debate. Speaking personally, I would have appreciated an opportunity to comment on it in this debate. 
Consistent with the proposed amendment to the maximum rate of charge, we propose to move that the legislation will cease to be operative on 1 July 1976. It will not have escaped the Minister's attention that that is the same date as that which applies to the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act. That is to remind the Minister of his words in the speech last year, to which I have referred already, when he emphasised the desirability of introducing permanent legislation at an early date. Therefore I believe that the proposed amendments are consistent with the expressed objective of the Government as well as that of the Opposition. I believe that the Minister appreciates the seriousness of this issue and that in the interests of all Australians there is an urgent need to tackle a problem which has gone for far too long and which, regrettably, is getting steadily worse. 
I move: 
In paragraph (a), omit' "$2.50" '.substitute' "$2.25" ' 
In paragraph (b), omit' "$3.50" '.substitute' "$3.20" '. 
In paragraph (c), omit" '$2.50" '.substitute" '$2.25" '. 
The first 3 paragraphs of this clause refer to the level of the charges which is provided for by the legislation. We seek to reduce each class of charge by approximately 10 per cent. As the Committee would know, the charge which is actually levied is not necessarily that provided for in the legislation but is set up to that maximum by regulation. As I mentioned in my speech during the second reading debate, I am informed that the current level of charge to cope with the present rate of idle time and the other purposes for which the charge is used would be approximately $2.20. The Committee will see that the Opposition's amendment provides for a charge for class A waterside workers- by far the most important class-of somewhat more than that. The reason for that is that the Opposition recognises the very difficult circumstances in which the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority operates. It has statutory obligations to perform and its finances are usually running right on the rims to enable it to fulfil its obligations. So the Opposition has allowed for a small but reasonable margin over the Authority's current requirements in the limit to the charge that it has proposed. 
I am further informed that a charge of approximately $2.20 would be sufficient to cope with idle time and the other purposes for which the charge is used- but principally idle timerunning at the rate of $15m a year. It follows therefore that if a higher charge is required the main reason for it would be idle time running at a rate in excess of $ 1 5m a year. I think the Committee will agree that $15m a year is a quite unreasonable amount of money to be paid to people for doing nothing, especially when the Australian community eventually is called upon to pay for it. So the Opposition proposes that if idle time reaches a figure greatly in excess of $15m a year the Government will be forced to come back to this Parliament for approval for a higher charge than $2.25. The Opposition believes that is reasonable because the situation then would have reached a stage where it deserved exposure in the Parliament. It would have reached a stage quite beyond the bounds of reasonableness. The same thing applies, but to a much lesser extent, to the charges for class B and class C waterside workers. The reductions are pro rata, but the effect on the Authority and on the population generally is very much less. As an encouragement to the Government to seek a more permanent solution to what has been a running sore, both from an industrial relations point of view and from an economic point of view, the Opposition urges the Government to accept the moderate reduction in charges provided by this amendment- charges which would still in the existing circumstances enable the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to fulfil its statutory obligations. 
-I move: 
After clause 3, add the following clause: '4. The operation of this Act shall cease on 1 July 1 976, or at such earlier time as legislation is passed providing permanent arrangements for the Stevedoring Industry in substitution for the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1974.'. 
The Opposition proposes to add clause 4 to this Bill. The purpose of the proposed clause is consistent with the amendments that we moved to clause 3 to reduce the charges by about 10 per cent so that if the commitments of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority made the charges proposed by our amendment inadequate, the Government would have to come back to the Parliament to get approval for a higher charge. Proposed clause 4 moved would have the effect of ceasing the operation of this 
Act on 1 July 1976 or at such earlier time as legislation is passed providing permanent arrangements for the stevedoring industry in substitution for the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1974. 
Honourable members may recall that when the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill was before the House last year the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  then the shadow Minister for Labormoved an amendment which would have required permanent provisions to be brought before this House before 1 April 1975. That amendment was defeated in this chamber. The voting in the Senate was 30 all. So although the amendment was not carried, there was a very substantial body of opinion in the Senate which clearly believed that permanent legislation for the waterfront should be brought back to this Parliament by 1 April 1975. Of course that has not been done. But the legislation of that timethe temporary provision legislation- expires on 1 July 1976 and we propose that this legislation too, the charges legislation, should expire on the same date. If the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  responds to the gentle stimulus which we have provided by earlier amendments and by this amendment and brings in legislation of a permanent nature before 1 July 1976 then of course this legislation would cease to have effect as from that date. 
It is true that the range of options which have been canvassed, which might lead to permanent legislation for the waterfront will require careful consideration by the Opposition. As I know the Minister would realise, they would need careful assessment by the Government. But one thing on which I think both sides are agreed and with which I agree, is the statement of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who said that nothing could be worse than what we have now- anything would be an improvement. This Parliament has a great responsibility to the Aus.tralian people to ensure that the improvement that is made is the best that this Parliament can devise. We believe that the cessation of the operation of this Act on 1 July 1976 provides a reasonable amount of time both for the Government and hopefully the Opposition to reach a considered view on this very vexed and complex question. 
We believe that the passing of this amendment would be an indication to all sections of the industry and to the public that this Parliament is determined to try to correct what year by year has turned into a greater problem- a problem apparently no nearer solution now than when the permanent employment provisions were introduced in 1967. It is a problem which is constantly brought before this chamber by the ever increasing requirements to increase the charge levied, culminating on this occasion in an increase from $1.40- the current rate, although legislation provides for up to $1.50- to a maximum of $2.50 with the probability that the actual levy set by regulation will be in the region of $2.20. Assuming that it is in the region of $2.20, that would imply an increase of about 60 per cent over the levy currently being charged. 
I accept what the Minister has said about the contingent liability for long service leave. In fact I drew attention to that very fact in my speech during the second reading debate, although I did under-estimate the contingent liability to the extent of about $3m as I understand what the Minister said subsequently. But this merely emphasises the fact that we are now operating in an ever-increasing cost plus system with no light at the end of the tunnel. The amendment which we have moved, that is, that the operation of the Act should cease on 1 July 1 976, is intended to put an end to the tunnel so that the Government and the Parliament can turn their minds to establishing a better, permanent arrangement to meet this constant burden which has been placed on the Australian people in general and on Australian exporters in particular. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What charitable organisations in the Shire of Colac and the City of Colac have received financial assistance from the Government. 
What charitable organisations in these areas who have applied for assistance have had their applications rejected. 
-I seek leave to move the motion standing in the name of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
In accordance with standing order 1 58, 1 move: ' That the motion be dealt with forthwith. 
I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Corangamite from moving that the following matter be referred to the Public Accounts Committee under the provisions of paragraph 8 (d) of the Public Accounts Committee Act 1951-1966- 
Whether, and if so to what extent, payments of un- . employment benefits have been made during this financial year to persons not entitled under the law to receive them; and 
Any matters connected with the foregoing which, in the opinion of the Committee, should be reported to this House. 

 Mr Speaker, it is a matter of public scandal that this question of payment of unemployment benefit has not - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many aircraft movements using runway 05/23 at Bankstown Airport were there in each of the last five years prior to its closure on 6 August 1974. 
What was the cost of maintenance on runway 05/23 in each of those years. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor. I refer to his refusal to answer the question whether there will be an allocation of funds to the Regional Employment Development scheme in the Budget. Is the RED scheme funded by Supply until 30 November? Has the RED scheme in fact already run out of money voted for it, which was to last until 30 November, because of the huge increase in demand for RED funds resulting from the Government's causing over 250 000 people to be unemployed? 
-This Bill, which seeks to amend the Crimes Act, makes it an offence under that Act for somebody who is an officer, member or employee of an organisation registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to steal, fraudulently misappropriate or fraudulently convert to his own use any money or property belonging to the organisation. Under the legislation a person found guilty of such an offence is liable to a penalty of imprisonment for 7 years. The Opposition agrees that there is a need for this Bill. It is extraordinary that, where organisations' funds are misappropriated, under existing Federal legislation all that we in the Federal jurisdiction can say is that the person responsible must stop doing it. We cannot do anything further than that. The organisations have to rely on State action if proceedings are to be instituted against the person who is guilty of that offence under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Clearly, in respect of organisations which are registered under a Federal Act, such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Federal Government should be able to initiate action in these circumstances. This Bill will enable it to do that. The Government is right in establishing machinery to deal with this despicable form of crime in which a person who is put in a position of trust by his fellow workers violates that trust and steals from his mates. 
Unfortunately, there have been blatant examples of this abuse of trust in recent times. There have been cases involving the Hospital Employees Federation of Australia, No. 2 Branch, in Victoria. There have been cases involving several members of the Builders Labourers Federation. These are some of the more well known cases which come to mind. This Bill will ensure that action can be taken under Federal jurisdiction to bring to justice people who engage in criminal practices of this nature. Clause 3 (2) of the Bill recognises the fact that such crimes are often difficult to prove if proof requires the identification of specific sums of money or items of property. Under the Bill it will be sufficient to prove a general deficiency in the books of account. Upon such proof the penalty is, as described in the Bill, imprisonment for 7 years. The Opposition agrees that the Bill makes adequate provision for dealing with the situation for which it is designed. However, it is worth mentioning that the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act dealing with annual reports and financial statements of organisations probably need tightening to ensure that rank and file members of organisations are kept fully informed of where and how their membership dues are being used and of the general financial position of the organisation to which they belong. 
I said a moment ago that the Bill is adequate to deal with the specific problem of the stealing of the funds of an organisation. But since the introduction of this Bill we have received an interim report from the Royal Commission Into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions conducted by  Mr Justice  Sweeney.  His  interim report was tabled in this House this week. I find it difficult to choose language to describe adequately the situation which is revealed by this interim report. Contained in its pages are cases not only of theft of union funds but also of blackmail and extortion accompanied by menaces, threats and intimidation. It sounds and reads like a story about the Mafia, but the tragedy is that it is not. It is about a small group of ruthless and dishonest people in the Australian union movement thieving from their workmates and extorting money under threats. Such actions are clearly of a similar kind to those covered by this Bill. 
As the Bill is presently drafted, some of those actions would not come within its provisions. In due course my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  who represents in this House the shadow Attorney-General, will be moving an amendment to correct this deficiency. The amendment is entirely consistent with the objective of the Government's legislation and therefore it should be acceptable to the Government. I do not blame the Government for not covering the appalling situation disclosed by the interim report of  Mr Justice  Sweeney because the report was not available when the legislation was brought down. But if the Government does not take the opportunity provided by this Opposition amendment to correct what is now seen to be a deficiency in the legislation it will be very clearly to blame. It would be intolerable if the practices described by  Mr Justice  Sweeney were allowed to continue. The Government must act now to put a stop to this longstanding campaign of blackmail and extortion. 
So that the House will be aware of the full implications of what has been going on, I shall refer to certain specific cases mentioned in the Sweeney interim report. Before doing so, it may be appropriate to remind the House that section 288 of the Navigation Act provides that no ship shall engage in the coasting trade unless  it  is licensed to do so by a single voyage permit which is commonly known as an SVP. Section 289 of the same Act provides that seamen employed on vessels engaged in the coasting trade shall be paid at the current ruling rates for seamen in Australia. The first case mentioned by  Mr Justice  Sweeney in his interim report is that of the  Wakasa Maru.  That was the first occasion on which demands were made in relation to the coastal trade. Those demands were made some 4 years ago. In fact, the issue related to intrastate trade. The  Wakasa Maru  was to transport machinery to the Ord River scheme in north Western Australia.  Mr Rawlings  claimed that the Australian vessel  Wollongong  should be used. It is interesting to note that  Mr Justice  Sweeney rejects this claim, as the  Wollongong did  not have the capacity. Then  Mr Rawlings  imposed a ban on the ship. He fixed the sum of $2,500 for the ban on the vessel to be lifted. This was paid.  Mr Justice  Sweeney comments in his report: 
I am satisfied that the demands made had no relation to any union policy concerning foreign vessels on the Australian coast. 

 Mr Justice Sweeney also makes reference to what is known as the Marine Industry Group. This is a group of unions concerned with maritime matters and affiliated with the Western Australia 
Trades and Labour Council.  Mr Justice  Sweeney comments: 
It had no books, no clear constitution and there seems to be considerable doubt whether it had properly elected officers, or whether it really had meetings. 
No cashbook, journal or ledger of any nature was kept. The only books available were sets of cheque butts, bank statements and incomplete sets of receipt books and bank deposit slips. 
Listed in the documents referred to above was a note which stated: 'Loan to member- $250'. Tracing the cheque butts revealed that the member concerned was  Mr Rawlings,  who then claimed that he had used this money for a union trip. The cheque was then traced through the bank to York Motors Pty Ltd. It formed part of the transaction in  Mr Rawlings'  purchase of a motor car. The loan was not approved by the union or by the Marine Industry Group.  Mr Justice  Sweeney comments: 
I am satisfied that there was an attempt to conceal the payment to Rawlings and a further attempt when the payment to Rawlings became known to conceal the purpose. I am satisfied that the reason this payment was demanded and received was to place money at the disposal of Wells and Rawlings, which could be used for their own purposes, and in Rawlings' case- his own personal benefit. The payment was not related to any union campaign at all. 
We now come to the case of the Bay boats. The Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd wanted to ship 400 vehicles to Western Australia. No other means was available to get them there; accordingly, arrangements were made to take the cars by the  Moreton Bay  and  Botany Bay.  I point out that neither of those vessels is in any sense a flag of convenience vessel. The cars were shipped to Western Australia and they were then unloaded.  Mr Rawlings'  name crops up again. He demanded $288 for every day involved in the shipment, a total of $2,500.  Mr Justice  Sweeney comments: 
Quite clearly the payment was made under duress . . . I am of the opinion that the purpose of the demand was to replenish the funds of the maritime industry group and not to further any union policy at all . . . In my opinion the demand was made in respect of these two boats primarily for the purpose of allowing Rawlings to obtain $250. 
The next case is that of the  Manchester Vigour.  It involves joint action by  Mr Rawlings  and  Mr Elliott  of the Seamen's Union of Australia. This ship was diverted to collect containers from Fremantle and to carry them to Melbourne.  Mr Rawlings  demanded the difference between the Australian and British rates and placed bans on the ship. When he was advised that the voyage, under section 7 of the Navigation Act, did not form part of the coastal trade,  Mr Rawlings  replied that he did not care what the Act provided and his demand still stood. The payment was refused by the British crew who were already on a bonus system considerably more beneficial to them than the differential payment which had been demanded by  Mr Rawlings. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration upon notice: 
Did the Department of Labor and Immigration ask the Bureau of Statistics to conduct a survey in October 1974 of persons registered as unemployed. 
If so, was this survey conducted on the basis that it was confidential to the Bureau and/or the Department of Labor and Immigration. 
Has the Minister consulted with the Minister for Social Security on what use may be made of the survey. 
If so, what was the result of these consultations. 
-This matter of public importance, 'the Government's total indifference to the unemployment situation in Australia,' was prompted to be raised for discussion by one of the most careless remarks I have ever heard made by a Minister in this 
House. But it was the underlying significance of this remark which was really important. It revealed what the Minister and the Government actually thought about unemployment and it explained a lot. The remark was made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration in this House. In answer to a question he said that there were about 95 000 unemployed when Labor came to power. But his comment on the present situation was almost unbelievable. I quote from the Hansard record of 19 August, page 11:  ... we are, therefore, looking at something less than 150 000 extra. 
That was an extraordinary statement. It is extraordinary by any standards, but when it is made by a Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, and a Labor Party Minister at that, one has to look for a deeper significance. The significance, of course, is that the Minister unwittingly let the House know, let the people of Australia know, that this Government considers an extra 150 000 unemployed of little consequence. Compared with what I believe will be the eventual results of the Government's policy even an extra 150 000 unemployed will be dwarfed by the unemployment problem which is now starting to appear. The problem will emerge as the school leavers join the ranks of the unemployed. It will expand as the lack of business confidence continues to eat away and erode employment prospects. It could well reach such proportions that it swamps this disastrous Government. 
The whole of Australia wants to see an end to the Government, but what a price to pay in human terms; what a price to pay in lost production which can never be made up. Yet in the mind of the Minister for Housing and Construction, clearly reflecting the opinion of his Government, we have only an extra 150 000 unemployed. What hope is there of recovery if that is the attitude of the Government? How can we expect any resurgence of economic activity? This Government set off on the road to high unemployment when it let inflation get out of control in Australia. At the start of 1972 the rate of inflation was about 7te per cent. It sounds like paradise now but it was very high by the standard set by years of responsible Liberal and Australian Country Party government. But by the end of 1972 the rate of inflation was less than 5 per cent. Then in came this Government of enthusiastic spendthrift amateurs. What a combination to have to try to govern a country. The results were predictable. 
We pointed out what would happen and it did happen. The tragedy is that the situation will continue to get worse in the absence of positive stimulation and incentive to industry from the Government. There was no such stimulation and incentive in the Budget, least of all to the union movement. One would have thought that having come under constant attack from the union movement for having created unprecedentedly high unemployment the Government would have made some effort to implement policies on which the unions put high priority. But not a bit of it. Ignoring the unions' No. 1 priority, that is, indexation of personal income tax, the Government stuck with its discredited ideology. Wage earners know, and the Mathews Committee confirmed, that the ever-increasing proportion of wages going in tax is one of the most powerful influences in generating high wage demands. The Liberal and National Country Parties have recognised this. We have announced that we would introduce indexation of personal income tax over 3 years. 
Even this Government has finally come to the brilliant conclusion, which everybody else has known since inflation took off in 1973, that excessive wage demands greatly in excess of productivity increases were the major cause of inflation. And yet when presented with the opportunity to reduce the source of this dangerous inflationary pressure the Government refused to take it. Even the fact that its own industrial wing had supported the indexation of personal income tax was not enough to divert this Government from its chosen path. It is now quite obvious that this chosen path is not directed towards improving job prospects. It is directed towards the Government getting a bigger and bigger share of the national income through huge increases in tax on personal incomes. Pay as you earn tax this year will go up by no less than 43 per centdouble the rise that even the Government expects in average weekly earnings. The Government has quite deliberately chosen to take more of what people earn rather than give back to individuals a greater share of what they gained by their own efforts. The reason, I suggest, is not hard to find. Socialist governments refuse to believe that people know better than governments how to spend their money. Because of this blind ideological commitment the Government has cynically condemned this country to higher inflation and higher unemployment. 
If the Government had been willing to forgo some revenue and put some more money back into people's pockets by adopting the principles of income tax indexation it could have made a major contribution towards moderating wage demands. By rejecting the tax indexation principle, by turning its back on the support of the union movement for this principle, the Government has virtually guaranteed a continuation of inflationary pressures. It seems determined to break the record that uncharacteristically, it has been reluctant to claim- the record unemployment that it has created. The signs that this record is almost certain to be broken are to be found in the Budget papers. Even assuming an increase in gross domestic product of 5 per cent, and the Treasury is obviously having serious doubts about whether this figure can be achieved, the increase in employment is expected to be only one per cent. In view of the Treasury comment, this must be regarded as a very optimistic figure. 
Since it is expected that there will be a 2 per cent increase in the workforce, about 60 000 more people will be added to the 250 000 now unemployed. But that is not the end of the story. We must not forget the 32 000 people who are now in temporary jobs under the Regional Employment Development scheme. They will be coming back on to the labour market as funds run out. There are now still more people completing their training under the National Employment and Training Scheme, but training for what? They will have new and worthwhile skills but that will be no consolation if there are no job opportunities for them. These extra unemployed- that is what they really are; they are not in permanent, productive employment and the statistics should acknowledge that factwill swell the number to about 350,000 unless they can be absorbed into private industry. 
The Government seems determined to make things even worse. It is now busily engaged in an exercise deliberately to fragment the motor vehicle industry even more than it is fragmented now. Against all the advice from all quarters, including the unions concerned, the Government will try to form another company to make 4- cylinder engines in South Australia. As I have emphasised time and again, the result will not be more employment in the industry. It may shift employment from one area to another, although that is doubtful, but it will cause enormous social disruption where there are existing factories, and thousands of jobs will be put at risk. 
Geelong is one such area. The eventual result will be to add to the disillusionment of car manufacturers in Australia. There will be a real danger that they will take their operations elsewhere. What will happen to areas like Geelong and Broadmeadows in these circumstances? A lot of people in the electorate of Corio will be questioning just what a Labor government means to them. Only this morning we had another reminder of what a combination of a Labor government and high inflation means. Three hundred workers are to be retrenched from the Commonwealth Engineering (New South Wales) Pty Ltd plant at Granville in New South Wales. The reason for this is that the company's contract for rollingstock cannot now be proceeded with because the Federal Government cannot provide the finance. There could be no clearer illustration of what inflation does to a country. When its effects start to bite- they are biting now in Australia- a government is prevented from providing for its citizens the services which in other circumstances it could provide and which its citizens have a right to expect. It pulls down living standards for everyone. But that probably will not worry the Minister for Housing and Construction, who is at the table. He is already on record as saying that Australians should give up trying to build themselves a 10-square house; they should start off by building a 6-square or 7-square house. That is a reduction in living standards. What an achievement when, after 3 years of Labor Government, all the advice home builders can get is to cut their expectations by 40 per cent! 
The Labor Government's failure to tackle the unemployment problem is not confined to its attacks on the larger companies. Perhaps even more significant are the effects of Labor government on small businesses in Australia. This is nothing short of catastrophic. Small businesses are estimated to employ over 40 per cent of our total work force and over 90 per cent of the work force in country areas. Yet at least 3000 businessessome large, some small- have closed this year alone. In Victoria 1179 companies have been removed from the register so far this year compared with 1156 for the whole of last year. In New South Wales 878 companies have been wound up, and the Premier claims that record numbers of people are going bankrupt. In Queensland 719 companies have closed. There has been a threefold increase in resignations from the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce in the last 12 months. These figures disclose a frightening situation to everybody except apparently the Government. 
The question must be asked: Is this situation deliberately contrived? Is this the result of a policy of a government with declared socialist objectives? I suggest that it may well be. A socialist government is not too concerned about big business. Big companies do not have a vote and they can be controlled to a large extent by legislation if a government makes up its mind to do so. But small businesses and independent operators are a very different proposition. They are much harder to deal with. They do have a vote, and there are hundreds of thousands of them. They are in fact the greatest single barrier to achieving a socialist form of government. What could be more natural than that a government with such aims should set about to get rid of them? Once put out of business, once dependent on government they are no longer an obstacle. That is what this Government is in the process of doing right now. 
By a combination of ever-increasing taxation associated with high inflation, the Government is making it impossible for thousands of people to carry on their own business, whether it be in farming or in anything else. Unfortunately, the figures show that the Government is succeeding to a dangerous degree. But it will not succeed altogether, because long before it puts every small businessman to the wall the people of Australia Will have thrown this Government out of office. They Will have thrown it out so comprehensively that it will be a long time before the Australian Labor Party gets another chance to ruin the economy and create the highest unemployment since the Depression. The damage already done will take time, energy and skill in government to repair. This Government cannot do it. The Budget is a blueprint for further unemployment taking off from a disastrously high and still rising base. The Opposition's alternative Budget has shown the way for economic recovery in Australia. The sooner it is put into practice, the better for the prospects of hundreds of thousands of job seekers all over this once prosperous country. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a very short statement in relation to something I said earlier today. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is the Minister aware of allegations that the guidelines for the operation of the access radio station 3ZZ which prevent the use of the station by political parties have been violated by representatives of the Italian organisation FILEF, the Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Families, and by an official of the Communist Party of Australia who has been a political candidate for that Party? Is he aware of reports that the latter person during the course of his regular program  Union News and Commentary  has urged people to reject decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and to disregard attempts to check inflation and has alleged that the Industrial Court was stacked? So that these allegations can be proved or disproved, will the Minister give immediate instructions to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to give me access to the tapes or texts of the relevant access broadcasts which the ABC, despite repeated requests, has so far failed to provider 
I would like to reply to the general tenor of the speech just made by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and I pose this question to him: If the record of the Government in Tasmania is so good why was there a swing of over 17 per cent against it in the Bass by-election? The obvious reason is that the Government has been no more successful in pulling the wool over the eyes of the electors of Bass than the honourable member for Franklin has been in trying to pull the wool over the eyes of this Parliament this afternoon. But I do not have any more time to waste on that. 
The honourable member for Wilmot will have the chance to test his popularity in his electorate at the next election. There will need to be only half the swing that got rid of the Labor candidate in Bass to get rid of the honourable member for Wilmot. My purpose this afternoon in speaking is to examine the Budget from the point of view of employment, a subject which is never very pleasant to the ears of the Government at this stage, and its implications in the Australian economy. I would like to emphasise that the Budget needs to be looked at in the context of last year's Budget as well. It cannot be considered in isolation as one year's exercise. Honourable members will remember that last year the Government budgeted for a deficit of $500m. It ended up with a deficit of $2,500m. Added to this year's budgetary deficit of $2, 800m that would mean that the Government has spent $5,300m more than revenue received over the last 2 years, and that must be considered optimistic in the light of what happened to last year's deficit. As I have pointed out, the expected deficit last year was $500m but the actual deficit was 5 times higher. Therefore the question must be asked: Is there any prospect of the same thing happening this year? If it does happen, everything the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has said becomes meaningless; all his talk about restraint becomes just rhetoric, and dangerous rhetoric at that. 
So we first have to look at the aims of the Budget and whether they are likely to be achieved. If they are achieved the Treasurer may be able to hold the line that he has taken- not that I agree with it- but he may be able to maintain his strategy, misguided though it is in my opinion. But if the expectations inherent in the Budget are not realised, on last year's experience the Treasurer has no hope of keeping the deficit to $2, 800m. The consequences of this are difficult to estimate but they will be serious and could be disastrous. It is highly significant that even the Treasurer himself has doubts about his own Budget. In the first place he inherited a mess created by this Government's hopeless ineptitude. Secondly, there has been absolutely no continuity of economic policy. Treasurer has succeeded Treasurer with bewildering rapidity, all of them sacked by a Prime Minister intent on trying to preserve his own rapidly deteriorating reputation at the expense of his closest colleagues. So the present Treasurer was a long way behind scratch from the start. No doubt he was thinking of past disastrous miscalculations when he said: 
The hopeful signs in the economy could prove illusory and inflation could take off again from its already high level to a thoroughly destructive effect. The private sector would find it increasingly difficult to function, with increasing business failures and unemployment could rise to dramatically higher levels. 
The Treasurer went on to say that his Budget was designed to avoid this situation but it follows that if it fails the Treasurer himself has described what will happen. I believe that it will fail and that the Treasurer has accurately diagnosed the consequences of that failure. To use his words again:  . . . the nation's productive capacity will run down and job opportunities will diminish. 
That is just a nicer way of saying that unemployment, already the highest for 30 years, will get worse. If the Treasurer has some doubts about his own Budget, what about his advisers? What does the Treasury think? Seldom, if ever, has a Budget been hedged around with more qualifications by the Government's professional advisers. Their attitude is to be found not in the Budget itself but in the Budget statements, particularly Budget statement No. 2. The Treasurer estimated that gross domestic product will increase by about 5 per cent after falling by 2 per cent last year. The Treasury's comment is as follows: 
It would hardly be surprising then if the broad picture outlined here were to prove in retrospect an inaccurate description of 1975-76. 
Clearly the Treasury has the gravest reservations about the capacity of the Australian economy, given this Budget, to achieve a growth rate of 5 per cent. Budget statement No. 2 then sets out a further whole range of assumptions, all or any of which could turn out differently. One does not need much imagination, reading between the lines, to come to the conclusion that the Treasury wants to dissociate itself from the Government's assumption. 
Even if the Government is right and gross domestic product does rise by 5 per cent, the Treasury estimates that employment will rise by only 1 per cent. But since there will be an estimated 2 per cent rise in the work force and well over 30 000 more people forced on to the labour market as the Regional Employment Development scheme is phased out in accordance with the Treasurer's Budget Speech, inherent in the Budget, even accepting its optimistic predictions, is a further increase of about 100 000 in unemployment. When these cold statistics start to appear in human terms, what will be the Treasurer's chances of maintaining the Budget strategy? My guess is that they will be about nil. The danger then will be that the Government will press the panic button, away will go any thought of holding the Budget deficit to $2,800m and the well known printing presses of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  will start to roll again. We could face a frightening increase in inflation which would soon inevitably be reflected in even higher unemployment. 
It has given me no pleasure to reach the conclusion that this Budget will not achieve its objectives, but after seeking information and opinion from a wide cross-section of the community it is the only conclusion that could be reached. That is why I say that the Treasury and the Government are wrong. I would like to give just 2 examples of the sort of investigations which I made. I would like to inform the House of the results of a survey covering 30 major companies in Australia and cross-checked by another rather smaller survey. The results are nothing short of alarming. Prior to the Budget there was a tendency to reduce labour in these companies. As a result of the Budget not one company expected to increase its labour force. As a result of the Budget 48 per cent will reduce their labour force even further. That would indicate to me a substantial rise in unemployment in the next 12 months, with most of the labour force being dropped in the spring quarter of this year. The survey reveals that following the Budget only 17 per cent of companies expect to increase capital expenditure. No less than half of the companies expect to decrease capital expenditure by over 10 per cent in the next 12 months. That is in money terms only and takes no account of inflation. 
Things are no better in respect of the profit outlook. The survey reveals that 44 per cent of companies expect their profits to decline as a direct result of the Budget and that only 1 6 per cent expect profits to increase. I would like to refer to another survey which involved 1 1 middle-sized companies each employing between 600 and 700 people. Comparing the 6-month period December 1972 to June 1973 with the 6-month period December 1974 to June 1975- and I remind the House that they are the first and last 6 months respectively of this Labor Governmentwe find that employment in these companies was down by 9.5 per cent, total wages and salaries paid were up 43 per cent despite the fact that 9.5 per cent fewer people were being paid, and total tax paid by this lesser number of wage and salary earners rose by no less than 55 per cent. Nothing could illustrate more clearly the operation of the law of constant shares to which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and I have referred before in this House. 
The employment and profit situation I have described is a direct consequence of the share of the gross domestic product represented by company profits declining from about 14 per cent to 9 per cent. This decline has been brought about quite deliberately by the policies of this Government. Indeed, the Government is even inclined to boast about it. Its self-satisfaction has the same sort of crazy logic as was displayed by  Mr Gallagher  of the Builders Labourers Federation when he claimed that forcing a major construction company into bankruptcy, thus putting thousands of members of his union out of work, was a great victory for the workers. With too many victories like that he will end up with no union at all. 
The economic argument is not difficult to follow, even for members of the Australian Labor Party. Companies which make profits employ people. When profits decline or disappear they employ fewer people or they go out of business altogether. That is why we have more than 250 000 people unemployed today and that is why I have come to the conclusion that this Budget will fail. According to all the evidence I have been able to obtain- some of it was quoted a moment ago- the Budget will not restore the confidence which business needs before it invests and creates job opportunities. I emphasise that this is not my opinion; it is the opinion of the people who will be making the business decisions. These decisions are hot off the press, being made after the Treasurer presented his Budget Speech. That is why the Opposition has adopted a completely different approach to Australia's problems. That is why the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has set out, in greater detail than has ever been done before in this Parliament, an alternative Budget strategy for Australia. 
Above all, there must be a wholehearted effort to reduce the rate of inflation in Australia. An essential prerequisite for this is a cutback in government spending. The Opposition has shown where the cuts should be made to achieve an overall reduction in government spending of 5 per cent. Real tax relief must be provided to reduce excessive wage claims. The Opposition has undertaken to phase in over 3 years the recommendations of the Mathews Committee on indexation of personal income tax, a measure which has the complete support of the trade union movement but which was rejected by the Government when it had an opportunity to implement it. That would put another $500m back into people's pockets. Investment and production must be stimulated, and therefore the Opposition would introduce immediately a 40 per cent investment allowance to apply until June 1977, with a 20 per cent allowance to continue for the next 5 years. There would be a major reform of the company tax and stock valuation system, again based on the recommendations of the Government's own committee- the Mathews Committee- phased in over 3 years, and quarterly tax payments by companies would be suspended. 
Primary industry- the favourite punching bag of the Government- must be recognised as an essential element of our society and our economy. In accordance with the recommendations of the Government's own body- the Industries Assistance Commission- the Opposition would restore immediately the superphosphate bounty and suspend the levies on the beef industry which is now fighting for survival. These and other initiatives combine to provide a blueprint for economic recovery. Given the incentive, I have no doubt that Australians will accept the challenge. This country has learnt to its bitter cost that the price of Labor government comes high in economic terms but even higher in human terms. We just cannot afford either price much longer. No country can expect to maintain its standard of living with inflation at more than 16 per cent or even higher. No country can hope to maintain employment if sections of the community misuse their industrial power to obtain a larger share of a decreasing national cake at the expense of their fellow citizens. 
I remind the House of the survey of the medium sized companies to which I referred a moment ago. Because the wage and salary bill had risen so rapidly, companies employed 9.5 per cent fewer people. Those still in employment were there at the expense of the 9.5 per cent who had been sacked. The ultimate in selfishness surely has been reached when wage claims are pressed to the point where those making them know that other people will be put out of a job if the claims are successful. Let me quote a passage from a recent speech by a national leader which has special relevance to the Australian situation today: 
We must keep our industrial costs down, and this means all forms of pay, all incomes. There is no other way. There may be those who, by the use of their own industrial muscle, feel that they could get for themselves such a pay increase as to enable them to escape the rigours of inflation. In the short term, yes- at the expense of more unemployment, at the expense of millions weaker than themselves. In the long term, they delude even themselves, for they and their families have to face the lash-back  of inflation  they generated by their own actions. 
That speech was made only a few days ago by a Labour Prime Minister-  Mr Harold  Wilson. This Government would do well to heed its message. The fact is that the inflation which we in Australia are now experiencing is in danger of creating a single generation society. When the value of money falls as rapidly as it is doing now, people cease to think of the future or of their children and they cease to look backwards to the problems of the aged; they think only of the present, of themselves. But inflation can be stopped. Other countries have done it and we can do it if only we have the will to take action now. 
This alternative Budget- for that is what it ispresented to the people of Australia by the Leader of the Opposition recognises the economic facts of life facing Australia. It spells out how the Opposition would tackle and overcome the tremendous national problems created by this economically illiterate Government. There are 3 things which must be done: Firstly, we cannot go on making people pay through taxation so that the Government can continue to live beyond its means. The Government cannot go on spending as if there were no tomorrow. Secondly, people working for the Government cannot continue to set the pace for wage increases and conditions of employment which the rest of the community cannot match. The Government cannot pay as if there were no tomorrow. Thirdly, we must reduce the taxes which discourage profitable private enterprise. The Government cannot tax as if there were not tomorrow. The Government cannot go on talking as if there were no tomorrow. This alternative Budget and the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition highlight the defects of the Government's Budget and set out how Australia's problems can be solved. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment. 
-Prior to its coming to power in December 1972 we were told by the Australian Labor Party that it had all the answers to the problems of industrial relations in Australia. We were told that there would be less industrial strife because of the so-called special relationship between the Labor Party and the trade union movement. The Federal Conference of the Labor Party in its industrial relations policy placed human rights and values first and provided for the development of full human dignity in the industrial sphere. It went on to emphasise full employment and freedom of choice in that employment. That is what we were told then. It sounded pretty good at the time, and it still does. But what a gap there is between the principle and the practice, between the ideology and the actuality. 
Let us have a look at the promises of 1972 in the light of what has happened since then. There would be fewer industrial disputes, we were told. But what a record we have seen. In 1972 there were 2 million working days lost. In 1973 that figure had increased by over 600 000. Last year the figure was over 6 million working days lost. The figure for wages lost by the people who were to benefit from this special relationship is even worse. In 1972 $32m was lost, in 1973 $45m was lost, and last year the figure was an unbelievable $128m. Some special relationship! 
Who did benefit as a result of this special relationship? If there was a special relationship, it was a special relationship of disaster- disaster for the workers of this country, disaster for the employers, disaster for the general public. No longer do we hear any resounding ideological policy commitments because there is no policy at all. Unfortunately, the story does not stop there, because this disastrous Government is still in power, and worse than that, it is still running true to form. 
At the beginning of 1973 the seasonally adjusted unemployment figure was 95 000, approximately 1V4 per cent of the work force- a remarkably low figure by any standard. From this figure and through successive months unemployment levels began to rise. How many times did we hear senior members of the Government publicly say 'It will never reach 100 000' or 'No way it will get to 150 000"? And there is that famous quote: 'I will resign from the ministry if it gets beyond 250 000'. 
Opposition  members- Who said that? 
-That was the former Minister for Labor and Immigration, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Where is the special relationship with the 300 000 Australian unemployed now comprising 5 per cent of the work force? On these figures alone, the condemnation of this Government is overwhelming. Never before have there been so many unemployed. But that is not the end of it. Consider for a moment the 25 000 hidden unemployed temporarily under the Regional Employment Development scheme, the thousands of people covered by the National Employment and Training scheme, the tens of thousands of students who remain at school in the hope that employment will improve. They must come into the work force next year. Consider also the decline in business confidence. As a result of the Government's policies business will have to reduce its labour even further. I do not hear any member of the Government promising that unemployment figures will not reach 350 000. With this destructive combination of record industrial disputation and record unemployment one would have thought the Australian Labor Party would have come up with some constructive ideas, but the one initiative proposed was indexation, and then only on wages- not on personal income tax, although that was recommended by the Government's own committee, the Mathews Committee, and is supported by the whole union movement. Wage indexation was to be the Government's great cure all for industrial strife. Look at the figures in May, the month immediately after the introduction of indexation. In May this year there were 330 industrial disputes, the highest figure for any month this year and one of the highest for many years. Half a million work days were lost, the highest for this year. An amount of $ 13.7m was lost in wages- a record again. If that is the result of the Government's only initiative in industrial relations, heaven help us for the future. 
The fact is that the Government is barren of ideas. Its policies on the various aspects of industrial relations are either non-existent or a positive liability. Take the question of communication. Communication is at the heart of industrial relations, because industrial relations are fundamentally human relations. It is obvious that if communication breaks down then industrial relations break down. But what did the Government do on coming to power? It promptly abolished the only national consultative forum there was- the National Labour Advisory Council, where representatives of employers, employees and the Government could meet and discuss national employment and industrial problems, and God knows there are plenty of them to discuss. The National Labour Advisory Council was, and under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will once again be, an essential part of Government, an essential instrument in the development of an industrial relations policy. We would reconstruct it as a statutory body with its own small secretariat, and it would be required to meet regularly. The Minister for Labor of the day, whoever he might be, will not be able to take refuge, as successive Ministers of this Government have done by just refusing to call the Council together. Communications must be encouraged not only at the national level, important thought that is. Industrial relations start at the shop floor, and communication at this level is vital. 
Where are the proposals of this Government? They do not exist. Again we have to look at the policies of the Liberal and National Country Parties. We recognise that it is not easy to legislate in this area- in fact, it is probably not desirable to legislate- but it is absolutely essential that' appropriate lines of communication be developed between employers and employees. It is essential for good industrial relations and fundamental to achieving Australia's full potential for development. The Liberal and National Country Parties are dedicated to developing a partnership concept in industry. We reject completely the outworn discredited ideology of the Australian Labor Party that industrial relations must be built on a class warfare concept. No Australian stands to benefit from that. All Australians stand to benefit from a mutual understanding of each other's problems and this can come only through the establishment of communication procedures to suit each individual plant or industry. 
Our policies strive to encourage, protect and respect the rights and responsibilities of all those engaged in industry. This is the foundation on which harmonious industrial relations are established. However, all parties involved in industrial relations must recognise that once an agreement has been reached or an award has been made they have an obligation to honour that agreement or award and that such arrangements must apply equally to both sides. The view that industrial agreements should be the only legal agreements which are binding on one party and not the other is contrary to our philosophy, contrary to law and contrary to the democratic system. Let anybody on the other side of the House who denies that declare himself now. The implementation of such a policy requires leadership from government. The present Government will not provide it. It has done nothing to stop industrial disputes and it stands condemned by the record level of industrial disputation which has occurred since it came to power. 
The Opposition's industrial policy, on the other hand, sets out in quite explicit terms our order of priorities. First, the whole thrust of our policy is directed towards preventing disputes from occurring, and I have already described the key role of communication in that respect. But we recognise that it is unreal to expect that disputes will never occur. Of course they will, and a realistic industrial relations policy must recognise that fact and include proposals to deal with disputes. We would give full support to the inclusion in awards and agreements of the dispute settling procedures which were agreed to by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and employers in 1970. There has never been a genuine concerted effort to apply these procedures. The present Government has never even mentioned them. Our policy recognises that in the last resort it is the right of an employee to withdraw his labour in an industrial dispute- to strike- so long as the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been complied with. However, long before that situation is reached there must be an obligation to talk, to negotiate and to conciliate. The dispute settling procedures would provide the machinery for this. Not only that, they would ensure that the public interest was protected. 
The Labor Party seems to have the peculiar attitude that there are only 2 parties to industrial disputes. It seems to forget that there is an unseen, sometimes forgotten, but vitally interested third party- the general public. A little while ago there were reports that the present Minister for Labor and Immigration was about to introduce amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to protect the public interest, to give the Government power to appeal against decisions of single members of the Commission and to require commissioners to observe the indexation principles and guidelines of the Full Bench. Where are these amendments? If they are responsible and are designed to counter inflation, the number one enemy of full employment in this country, the Opposition would support them. However, there has been no action, as always seems to be the case with this Government when confronted with a real issue or problem. 
The Government will not face up to its responsibilities. There is plenty of talk at national wage case hearings about the need for restraint but there is a strange silence when it is confronted with the need to argue strongly in individual cases. Did the Government intervene in the recent coal miners' case? Did it intervene when the meat workers in Victoria claimed another $60 a week? Will it intervene in the oil industry case this week? If the Government were genuine in its calls for restraint it would have taken every opportunity to argue the case. There have been plenty of opportunities but this pusillanimous, spineless, no-policy government turns its back on the problems and on the unemployed whose only hope of a job depends on inflation being brought under control. This Government has abdicated its responsibility in industrial relations. It refuses to represent the people of Australia. What other words can be used to describe a situation where a Minister of the Crown has the effrontery to tell beef producers, who are desperately seeking a market for their stock and who are desperately trying to stay solvent, that if they want to export cattle they should try to make arrangements with the union so that they will be allowed to export their stock. What bare faced impertinence, what gall for a Government to give such advice to people facing the gravest financial crisis in the history of their industry. 
A government which adopts this attitude has forfeited all right to respect from the Australian electorate. A great principle is involved. That principle is that in a parliamentary democracy the elected representatives of the people govern the country and when they refuse to do so they lose their right to govern. This Government deserves to go. The former Minister for Labor and Immigration 12 months ago said: 
The Government would not want to continue in office if unemployment increased from the present 93 000 to a 2S0 000 figure. 

 Mr Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, said at a time when unemployment was less than half what it is now that he would rather see a new election than have the Government cause mass unemployment. This Government not only deserves to go but also, according to one of its own Ministers and to the  president  of the Australian Labor Party, it has to go. 
I want briefly to clarify paragraph (b) of the amendment which the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  has just moved. As I understand the position, levies will be collected right up until the date when the legislation runs out on 30 June next year. Obviously there will be collected levies undistributed at the time the legislation runs out. My understanding is that this amendment is purely to allow those moneys to be distributed after the expiry of the legislation. I should just like confirmation from the Minister that that is so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause 3. 
Section5 of the  Stevedoring Industry Charge Act  1947-1973 is amended- 
by omitting from paragraph ( a) the words 'One dollar fifty cents' and substituting the figures '$2.50'; 
by omitting from paragraph (b) the words 'One dollar seventy-five cents and substituting the figures $3.50'; and 
by omitting from paragraph (c) the words 'One dollar twenty cents' and substituting the figures '$2.50 '. 

 -Mr Chairman, the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill is a hardy perennial. I wish to make it quite clear to the Committee that the Bill has come back before us because of the mishandling by the Government of the affairs of this Parliament at the end of the last session. The Committee will remember that that session ended in a succession of gagging motions and a substantial amount of the Government's own legislation was left on the notice paper. Included among those measures was the Stevedoring Industry Charges Bill 1975. 
That is why this Bill was not handled as it should have been at the end of the last session. 
I spoke then on the Bill. I do not intend to go over all of that ground again. I illustrated then the problems of high costs involved on the Australian waterfront which eventually all had to be paid for by exporters. The intervening months have given an opportunity to assess just how bad that situation really is. The problem essentially is that while the work on the waterfront fluctuates very widely because of changing conditions of trade, the work force does not. The result, as we all know, is idle time payments in certain circumstances and shortage of labour in others. 
The waterfront is not like other industries. The major ports have their work force fixed or virtually fixed because the cost of getting a waterside worker once registered out of the work force can be approximately $14,000 for each worker involved. Not only that, but the waterside worker himself has voluntarily to declare himself to be redundant. Because of these circumstances, the position has deteriorated quite dramatically since the Bill was before the House in May. As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  has said, the proposed increase in the levy on employers of waterside labour is now for the class A waterside workers, who comprise by far the greatest part of the work force, to be raised to the huge total of $4 per man hour. Of course, out of that money payments have to be made for idle time, long service leave and all the other commitments of the industry. 
-That is the maximum. I take the Minister's point. The legislation sets the maximum; the regulation sets the actual figure. I have heard that the figure is likely to be slightly in excess of $3. Eventually the cost of this has to be met by the exporter, since stevedoring costs eventually find their way into freight costs. I think it is worth remembering that when the levy was introduced along with permanent employment on the waterfront in 1967 it was about 48c a man-hour. The latest figures clearly illustrate that the position has got out of control. I would like to cite some figures from the official documents of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. In the last quarter for which figures are availablethat is, the April to June quarter of this year- at the port of Melbourne a waterside worker averaged 22.7 hours a week and idle time averaged $41 a waterside worker a week. That is quite a dramatic increase on the previous figures, hi Sydney 18.7 hours a week were worked and $52 a week was paid for idle time. In Adelaide 18.1 hours a week were worked and $61 a week was paid for idle time. I seek leave to incorporate those tables in Hansard. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Has the Department of Labor and Immigration lifted its estimate of the number of unemployed next year from 400 000 to 450 000? Does this estimate assume that the indexation guidelines of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have been complied with? 
-There are 2 matters to which I would like to refer specifically in speaking to the estimates of the Department of Labor and Immigration. One is a matter which is largely completed now, but one which did create some problems and which was referred to, as I am sure the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  who is at the table is aware, in the Auditor-General's report. I refer to the income maintenance scheme. The Auditor-General drew attention to some highly undesirable features of the results of that scheme and some abuses of it. If my memory serves me right, I believe the Department was trying to recoup some money which it had found upon investigation to have been wrongly paid. 
I am interested in the comment that the Minister has just made. I had in my mind -and I do not want to be held to this- something like $260,000 as being overpaid. I am glad to have the Minister's assurance that the major portion of that amount has been recovered. When the Minister replies in due course he may be able to give some more information on that matter. 
The other aspect of the estimates to which I would like to refer is the Regional Employment Development scheme which still involves a very large sum of money- $ 135m- in the estimates but which the Government has announced is to be run down over the next few months. I think that the Minister said today in answer to a question from me during question time that employment on the RED scheme had been reduced to something of the order of 20 000 from, I think, 32 000 at its peak. But still, very large sums of money are involved. As the Minister would know, there had been a great deal of confusion and uncertainty among local government bodies which have been involved with projects which were either just started or approved and about to be commenced when the announcement was made that the scheme was to be phased down. A letter from the Department of Labor and Immigration states:  . . . projects not already commenced will be finalised only in a limited number of areas experiencing the most severe unemployment- in general where the local unemployment rate is twice the national average. 
Therefore letters have been sent out to various local government organisations saying that particular projects of theirs do not fall within that category and that, therefore, even though they had hoped that the projects would go ahead, they now will not do so. To give an illustration of the severity of this decision I would like to quote the experience of certain areas, namely, the electorate of Braddon in north-west Tasmania plus municipalities in the Latrobe and Kentish areas on the eastern boundary of that electorate. The value of the schemes cancelled in six of the municipalities totals $568,000. That is a very considerable sum of money. 
As the Minister would know, the unemployment situation in Tasmania is extremely difficult. I imagine that in Braddon and municipalities adjoining it the cancellation of projects of that magnitude at pretty short notice is going to involve even greater difficulties for the area in the immediate future. For instance, the councils which had RED schemes cancelled are King Island, $99,000; Circular Head, $97,000; Wynyard, $160,000; Latrobe, $99,000; Kentish, $108,000; and Stratum, $25,000. In an area which is already suffering high unemployment that obviously is going to have a very severe effect. 
The most difficult cases of all involve projects which were approved and had been started but which it may not be possible to complete. I quote again from the letter sent out by the Minister's Department. It states: 
The question of reimbursing you for financial commitments which you have already incurred will be sympathetically considered. 
That sounds fine if the sympathetic consideration which is mentioned turns out to be in favour of the council or whatever the organisation is. But if the Minister, having sympathetically considered the question, decides that the council is not going to be reimbursed for this money some local government authorities are going to be seriously embarrassed. Even more seriously embarrassed will be individual organisations which believed that they were going to get their facilities upgraded through the RED scheme. I cite merely one. It is the Muswellbrook Park Sports Club, which was to get a grant. It has been left with bills for labour escalation of a bit over $2,000, for cost escalation of just under $1,000 and for material escalation of just under $2,000. So there is about $5,000 for which this sports club is left holding the baby. 
I have the application in front of me. A grant of $54,060 was duly approved and the job commenced during the week ending 30 April. The point is that it is left now with an uncompleted facility and there is an amount of about $5,000 which it has to pay or may have to pay. I just make a plea to the Minister on this question of sympathetic consideration that in the case of organisations which have very little financial backing- not that I am saying that all municipalities are very well off at the present time by any means- particularly sporting clubs or charitable organisations - 
-' Or charitable organisations', I said. 
-No, I said: 'Sporting clubs or charitable organisations'- organisations of that nature, which have been left holding considerable financial burdens through no fault of their own. They should receive special consideration because of their limited financial backing. As I say, I am not implying that all local government authorities are able to stand the financial loss with which some of them may be faced, but these other organisations are able to stand it a good deal less. I would hope that the Minister in his reply would give a rather more certain indication to a great number of organisations which at the moment merely have an undertaking that their requests will be sympathetically considered that their commitments will be met. I have something like a dozen local government organisations in my own electorate which find themselves in that position, but fortunately they had not started the scheme concerned so they are not up for any money themselves specifically. 
The RED scheme had great difficulties during its time of operation mainly because this Government insisted on its being administered from Canberra. I think this has illustrated the great difficulty of central government in trying to set priorities which are best known and best handled by the people closest to them, that is, the local organisations and local government authorities. 
It was administered by 7 Ministers. The Opposition's policy, of course, is to return administration of such schemes in times of high local unemployment to the people who do it best. They are the people closest to the problem- local government and local organisations. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1) Do the guidelines for radio station 3ZZ state that the station should not be used by political parties or trade unions. 
Is the  chairman  of the station's planning committee a  Mr George  Zangalis 
) If so, is  Mr Zangalis  an official of the Communist Party of Australia, and did he stand as a candidate for that Party at an election for the Victorian State Electoral Division of East Brunswick in 1973. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Did the Government give an undertaking to the State governments that it would amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to enable the Government to appeal to a Full Bench of the Commission against decisions of single members of the Commission against agreements and consent awards and to make a ground of appeal failure by a member of the Commission to comply with a decision or principle laid down by the Full Bench? Does the Government intend to honour that undertaking? If so, when will the amending legislation be introduced? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What appointments have been made in the (a) Arbitration Inspectorate (b) Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and (c) Industrial Court since 2 December 1972. 
What was the previous industrial relations experience of each of the persons appointed. 
) What positions had any of the persons appointed held in organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Yes, I am well aware of the disastrous effects on decentralised industries of the tariff policies of the previous Government. I am also aware of the closure, or the possible impending closure, of the Courtaulds works. I cannot vouch for the figures which the honourable gentleman gave but I would be happy to have them confirmed for him. In relation to the future of that company, it may be too late to take action such as the honourable gentleman suggests, but the Commonwealth Employment Service will be anxious to do whatever it can for those people who are being put out of employment as a result of the closure of the Courtaulds works. If necessary I shall arrange for extra officers of the Department to go to the town concerned to help in solving that problem which will be a major one- and that is recognised. 
Pursuant to section 27 (4) of the National Library Act 1960-73 I present the annual report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with financial statements in respect of that year and the Auditor-General's reports on those statements. 
For the information of honourable members I present statistical returns in respect of each of the States showing the voting within each subdivision in relation to the submission to the electors of proposed laws for the . alteration to the Constitution held in 1974. Due to the limited number available reference copies of these documents have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
It was fascinating to observe the total conflict of views of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  both, I remind the House, Ministers in the previous Labor Government. Just now we heard the honourable member for Hindmarsh indicate that a Labor Government never would have discounted the consumer price index for the effects of indirect taxes. Yet in the Budget Speech last year, his own Treasurer said: 
In drawing attention to these price effects, I add that it is the Government's firm view that, for the purposes of wage indexation, increases in prices resulting from tax measures of the son that I have announced should be discounted. 
The Labor Government was a hopelessly divided government. We now have a clear indication that it will be just as hopelessly divided in Opposition. 
At the start of my contribution to this debate I state quite clearly and firmly that the Government has not in any way departed from its undertaking to support the wage indexation agreement in the current economic circumstances. It is worth noting that immediately following that statement in our economic policy released just prior to the election is this second comment: 
The Government will intervene on a regular basis before the Commission to put forward guidelines for increases in wages and salaries which are consistent with the objectives of national economic policy. 
Wage indexation in the present context does not mean, simply and solely, the movement of award wages in accordance with movements in the consumer price index over the previous quarter. It refers to a set of 8 principles enunciated by the Full Bench in its decision of 30 April 1975. It would be quite invalid to apply the concept of adjusting award wages to reflect price increases out of this total context of 8 principles. Principle 1 reads: 
The Commission will adjust its award wages and salaries each quarter in relation to the most recent movement of the 6 Capitals CPI unless it is persuaded to the contrary by those seeking to oppose the adjustment. 
Some people seem to be under the impression that this means that, unless substantial noncompliance with the principles can be demonstrated by those opposing the adjustment, the full extent of the movement in the consumer price index in each quarter will be applied to wages and salaries. It can be seen from the Commission's decision of 30 April which set down the principles that this is not the only relevant factor. The Commission said in its 30 April decision: 
There is undoubted merit on grounds of equity and industrial relations for ensuring that recent wages are maintained unless evidence can be adduced of consequential adverse economic effects. 
Deputy President Isaac, a distinguished member of the Full Bench hearing the national wage case, endorsed this interpretation of principle 1 during the course of the proceedings. He pointed out to the advocate for the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and I quote from the transcript: 
Principle I does leave open the possibility for some adjustment less than the CPI in any one  quarter  if the Commission is persuaded this is the right course to take for a variety of reasons, including economic reasons. 
It is therefore specious to argue that the Government was in some way breaking its promise to support wage indexation when all it did was argue for a perfectly rational application of the Commission 's own decision. 
The Government did not take the line it did on the application of the wage fixing principles out of some sort of desire to enter into a confrontation with the trade union movement. Indeed, I am this day engaged in discussion with the Australian Council of Trade Unions to try to arrive at proper procedures for entering into consultative arrangements and I hope to find a favourable response from the ACTU to my approaches. The reason the Government took the course it did before the Commission was its over-riding concern for the state of the economy and the consequences for the entire Australian community. The Government sees the economic situation at the start of 1 976 as being grim. It is in a serious condition. Recently there have been some signs of a turn for the better but should there be any renewed upsurge of inflation these hopeful signs will not develop into positive and sustained improvement. 
Right now the economy is delicately poised. Growth will depend crucially on the restoration and maintenance of both business and consumer confidence. Future trends in wages and prices will be critical in this respect. Inflation rates must be seen to be coming down in a steady and persistent manner. This will in time reverse the course of inflationary expectations and confirm the downward course of actual inflationary experience. There is bipartisan agreement on the role that too rapid a rate of increase in wages can play in wrecking the prospects for sound economic recovery. The former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley, said in his 1975 Budget Speech: 
Meanwhile, however, it is clear that some wage and salary pressures are unrealistic and, when successful, harmful. It does employees generally no good to get higher and higher money incomes if the results are just higher prices, a severe squeeze on profits, a slump in new investment and a contraction in job opportunities. 
It is precisely this inescapable problem of choice that was at the heart of the Commonwealth's submission to the Full Bench in the national wage case. The choice is between, on the one hand, restoring fully the real incomes of those who do have jobs at the risk of throwing some of them out of work and on the other hand providing an environment in which the recent slight strengthening in consumer and business confidence will continue and more job opportunities will become available. The Commonwealth Government believes that in opting for the latter it will have the support of all those people who have the interests of wage and salary earners as a whole at heart. 
What happened in 1 974-75 is an illustration of this. To the wage and salary earner who retained his job during that period the upsurge in real earnings may have seemed costless, but what of the less lucky individuals who were thrown out of work as firms endeavoured to live with the erosion of their profit margins and a drying up of cash flow. In the face of sharply rising costs and declining profits firms quickly took defensive action. Overhead costs were vigorously pruned and manpower levels were closely scrutinised, leading ultimately to retrenchments and a forestalling of new recruitment. Many firms went out of business altogether. 
The result was that the seasonally adjusted level of unemployment almost trebled during the course of 1974. Now, in actual terms, unemployment in Australia is almost 344 000- a very high figure by historic Australian standards. The Government regards this as its prime problemrestoring business confidence, restoring job opportunities, increasing the job security of those who are lucky enough to have a job at the moment. We must recognise therefore that the behaviour of wages and prices over the next 12 months holds the key to sustained recovery in employment. Fundamental to that recovery will be a further easing in inflationary pressures to reduce uncertainty and to enhance consumer and business confidence. Sustained recovery in the economy could not be expected unless inflation abated further. Fiscal and monetary action could not of itself ensure that the recent easing in inflationary pressures on the wages side continued. Hence, this was a very crucial case. Faced with a choice between supporting application of the full 6.4 per cent or presenting a case whir h argued the cause of job security and job opportunity, the Government took the latter course. I find it extraordinary that the Australian Labor Party, having created the greatest unemployment in Australia since the Depression, now argues for a policy which must inevitably perpetuate, and indeed increase, unemployment. 
-The Government has received many suggestions along the lines of that put forward by the honourable member, that is, that those in receipt of unemployment benefit work out the value of their benefit at award rates on local projects or things of that nature. It seems a reasonable and constructive suggestion at first sight but it does have problems. One of them was adverted to by the honourable member who asked the question, namely the problem of supervision. It follows from the fact that, particularly in respect of single people the value of the unemployment benefit being considerably less than the value of a full award rate for the week, people would be working irregular hours and the problem of supervision therefore becomes considerable. I am informed that the cost of supervision can in some cases equal or even exceed the value of the work that is produced. A more substantial problem is involved in this proposition. It concerns an International Labour Organisation convention on forced labour. This convention has been ratified by Australia. Work being done in the way suggested by the honourable member could involve Australia in a contravention of the international convention which it has already ratified. 
As was announced some time ago, the Government has revised the eligibility criteria for the National Employment and Training scheme and has applied a means test to those seeking training. The first point I make is that the original gross sum paid to those in training was, as the honourable member would know, $96.80 a week. That was subject to tax. The amount received by the trainee would be less than that, depending on the number of dependants the trainee had. The second point is that the means test which the Government has applied takes account of the needs of the recipient. Those with a dependent spouse and two or more dependent children will be getting more under the new NEAT allowance scheme than they did under the old scheme. That is a recognition of the principle that those in the greatest need should get the greatest help. The third point is that certain supporting mothers who are eligible for a supporting mother's pension will be eligible for the pension if it should be higher than the NEAT allowance as it applies to them. They have the option of taking whichever is the higher. Finally, I make the point that there has been some suggestion that those who are already in the NEAT scheme, as distinct from those who are currently coming into the scheme under the new guidelines, should in some way be getting a preferred position. I think the House would recognise that it would be untenable for people under the same scheme, in some instances perhaps doing the same course, to receive different payments for the training that they are undergoing. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Leader of the Opposition draws attention to what he rightly identifies as a long standing problem in Australian industrial relations. I do not intend to go over the old history there. The Leader of the Opposition also will be aware that under his Government  Mr Justice  Sweeney carried out an investigation and subsequently made a report suggesting certain measures which could be taken and which would at least in part help to overcome the problem. Subsequently legislation was introduced into this Parliament which so far as the Commonwealth was able to legislate went in line with what  Mr Justice  Sweeney recommended. However, the successful implementation of the federal legislation does depend on complementary or similar legislation being enacted by State governments with industrial jurisdictions. To date the governments named by the Leader of the Opposition have not responded in a way which indicates that they are prepared to pass this legislation. However it is a matter which is raised at almost every conference of Ministers for Labour. 
I have not raised it since I became Minister but the matter is one of some concern and I shall be looking at ways to deal so far as is possible with the problem posed by  Moore  v.  Doyle  with State Ministers. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Maritime Industry Commission of Inquiry entitled  The Adequacy of Australia's Ports. 
Pursuant to - 
Pursuant to section 7, sub-section 7 of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1975 I present a copy of a determination of the Remuneration Tribunal relating to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Administrative Review Council, the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry, the Commonwealth Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and the Australian Dairy Corporation. The determination, dated 29 October 1975, sets remuneration for offices for which the Tribunal had not previously made determinations. 
The question of the payment of unemployment benefit is now of great economic significance. The amount being paid is currently running at the rate of $500m a year. The Government therefore last month took action to try to prevent abuses of this benefit without in any way affecting the rights of those genuinely seeking work. The Government took that action in 3 specific areas. Firstly, to try to overcome the problem of multiple registrations, that is, people who claim benefits from more than one office, we now require proof of identity. Secondly, unemployment benefit will not normally be available to people who deliberately make themselves unacceptable to employers. I emphasise that word 'employers' because there has been some suggestion that officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service make this judgment. They do not, of course; it is made by the employers. Thirdly, there are people who deliberately choose not to move from areas where employment prospects are poor to areas where they are offered a job or on the other hand, people who deliberately move to an area where they know jobs will not be available. Action has been taken in all these areas to stop abuse of the system. The guidelines have been in operation only since last month and it is too early yet to be definite about their results. However, there are encouraging signs of a reduction in the number of people receiving unemployment benefits. 
I cannot be precise about the reason for the drop. The new guidelines have undoubtedly been an influence, so too perhaps has been the absorption of school leavers into the work force. This will become clearer as unemployment figures are released. The February figures should be available, I hope, at the end of next week. So far as my Department is aware, no complaints of any significance have been received about the operation of the guidelines. The honourable member also asked what appeal provisions are available to people whose unemployment benefit application has been terminated or rejected. Such people are notified in writing of the reason for the termination or rejection and they are then able to appeal to the social security appeals tribunal in their State. These tribunals normally consist of two independent members, usually a lawyer and somebody qualified in the social welfare field, and a person seconded from but not acting for the Department of Social Security. I emphasise that the new guidelines in no way impair the rights and protection of those genuinely seeking work. 
As the honourable member indicated, there was an ad hoc tripartite conference on 16 January. It was put at that conference, and the Government agreed, that a further conference be held about the future of some price scrutiny mechanism. As a result of that decision I have been discussing with the relevant parties a time when that conference might take place. There have been some difficulties in arranging a date as early as I would like because two of the principal parties were going to the governing body of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva. One of those parties has returned rather more speedily than he anticipated, but the other is still absent. Our program is for these discussions to take place in the second half of this month. The whole question of the appropriate prices scrutiny mechanism in this country will then be aired fully. I might add that my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has indicated that he would be happy to receive submissions from people interested in this area for consideration prior to the holding of the talks. 
As the honourable member is aware, the Commonwealth Government has instituted a complete review of Government expenditure in all areas and the Arbitration Inspectorate is no exception to that. As a result of restrictions on overtime and travel it will not be possible to make as many visits on a routine basis as was previously the case. However, any direct complaint which is received will be the subject of prompt investigation. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the efficiency of a body or organisation such as the Arbitration Inspectorate is not dependent entirely on its ability to travel but rather on its ability to deal promptly with cases of abuse which are brought to its attention. 
Pursuant to section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1975 I present the annual report of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13 August 1975. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Government delegation to the 59th session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva in June 1974. Appended to the report are the texts of the following instruments adopted by the 59th session of the Conference: 
Convention No. 139 concerning prevention and control of occupational hazards caused by carcinogenic substances, and recommendation No. 147 concerning prevention and control of occupational hazards caused by carcinogenic substances and agents; convention No. 140 concerning paid educational leave, and recommendation No. 148 concerning paid educational leave. 
These 4 instruments have been circulated to the appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities for examination and comment. This examination indicates that, while Australian law and practice comply with many of the provisions of the instruments, they do not comply in all respects. For this reason, ratification of the conventions in the immediate future does not appear to be a realistic prospect. However, in accordance with normal practice the position regarding compliance with ILO conventions Nos 139 and 140 will be kept under examination with a view to possible ratification in due course. 
Pursuant to section 125 (8) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1 904-1975 1 present the report of the Australian Arbitration Inspectorate for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of the following international treaty adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 30th session in 1947: ILO Convention No. 81 concerning labour inspection in industry and commerce. With the approval of the Executive 
Council, the Australian Instrument of Ratification was lodged with the Director-General of the International Labour Office on 24 June 1975. 
Pursuant to Article 25 of the Convention a declaration was appended to the Instrument of Ratification excluding Part II, concerning labour inspection in commerce, from Australia's acceptance of the Convention. This reflected the fact that Australian law and practice were not in compliance with Part II. 
Pursuant to section 23 (2) of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962-1975 I present the annual report of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The general question of shorter working hours has been raised in various cases recently before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission relating to the postal and telecommunications area. It is the view of this Government that the previous Government acted in an inappropriate way in tackling this problem on an ad hoc, piecemeal basis. The general question of shorter working hours, whether in the postal and telecommunications area, the area of government employment generally or in all areas of employment, including private employment, is a matter of great moment both economically and socially to the community. The Government therefore believes that this matter should not be approached on a piecemeal basis, and that is the tenor of the submissions we have made before the Commission. It is true, as the honourable member said, that the Full Bench granted the shorter working hours in the case which was immediately before it. The Government is presently considering in detail the implications of that decision not only for work in the Post Office but in view of its importance to the community. 
I shall deal with the last part of the honourable member's question first. The Government has made clear its support for training. Indeed, the Liberal and Country Parties during their previous administration introduced many individual training schemes- for married women, Aborigines and other specially disadvantaged people in the community. One such scheme was the general employment retraining scheme. All these schemes have been incorporated under the present NEAT scheme, which the Government has also continued and which it supports. Prior to the election we made it quite clear that we favoured the introduction of a means test on NEAT to ensure that those persons who were most in need received most assistance. That remains our policy. It is true that some people presently engaged in NEAT training will get less. Those with 2 dependants or more - 
I have not got the precise figures for the honourable gentleman, but I shall try to get them for him if he would like them. Those with 2 dependants will get approximately the same as they did under the previous scheme. Those with a dependent spouse and two or more dependent children will get more than they got under the previous scheme. Some of the NEAT allowances were being abused. I give one example to the honourable member of the sort of undesirable features which attached to the NEAT scheme allowances without a means test. 
A person undergoing NEAT retraining recently complained to an honourable member on the Government side of the House about the reduction of the NEAT allowance. It transpired that the person concerned had a spouse with an income of some $30,000 a year. The complaint was that a reduction in the NEAT allowance would not enable that couple to pay a housekeeper. I am not implying that that was by any means a universal situation but it did arise in many instances. The Government's policy is that those most in need should receive most. We anticipate that the new means test will enable some 3000 extra people to enter the NEAT scheme this year and retrain for skills which are in demand in the work force and which will enable them to lead a more satisfying and productive life 
-The Leader of the Opposition has asked a series of questions, some involving matters of fact and detail. They are all complex and sensitive. I shall treat the question as being on notice and refer it to my colleague in another place. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The number of electors in each electoral Division as at 13 December 1975 and at each previous election held on the present boundaries is set out in the following table compiled by the Australian Electoral Office. 
I am aware of the situation which the honourable member has described. As the honourable member will know, the Government has recently received a copy of the Northrop report in which  Mr Northrop,  after being appointed by the previous Administration, has reported on possible alternatives for the future structure of the waterfront industry in Australia. The particular problem of Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority members and members of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia employed by that organisation has caused concern both to previous governments and to this one. The undertaking which the honourable gentleman seeks is very difficult to give because the Clerks Union members employed by the ASIA are not technically members of the Public Service and therefore no guarantee can be given to them that they will be absorbed into another avenue of the Public Service, because they are not members of it. The problem is causing me considerable concern and I have it under active investigation at the present time. 
I am aware that the building industry, not only in New South Wales but elsewhere in Australia, has been put in a very serious situation by the irresponsible actions of certain unions which have brought some multi-million dollar projects to a halt, thus costing many thousands of Australians their jobs. So far as the apprenticeship situation is concerned there is unfortunately a reluctance on the part of some employers to employ the number of skilled tradesmennot only bricklayers and other people in the building industry, but skilled tradesmen in other areas as well- that this country will need in the future. The Government does provide substantial incentives to the extent of about $3 5 m a year under the national apprenticeship assistance scheme. At the moment I have under review the details of this scheme to try to ensure that money is spent in the most effective way. I am seeking views from the industry and the State authorities towards achieving a more effective result for this very considerable annual Commonwealth expenditure in the apprenticeship area. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In respect of my own portfolio 
(D- 
Royal Commission on Human Relationships Interim Report; 
Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries; 
Inquiry into Transport Charges to and from Tasmania. 
The above reports are being printed. 
The following inquiries will be making reports in the future. Some, however, have already submitted interim or progress reports which have been tabled. Details in respect of these reports are set out below: 
Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenures Interim Report tabled 4 December 1 973 
Royal Commission on Petroleum First Report tabled 16 October 1974 Second Report tabled 6 March 1975 Third Report tabled 30 September 1975 
Maritime Industry Commission of Inquiry First Report tabled 9 July 1974 Second Report tabled 26 November 1974 Third Report tabled 25 February 1976 
Royal Commission on Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions 
Interim Report tabled 20 August 1974 
Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration 
Royal Commission on Human Relationships 
Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security 1 
Royal Commission on Norfolk Island 
The National Advisory Committee on International Women's year 
The tabling of reports presented or to be presented will be considered by the Government after printing has been completed. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is proposed to examine the postal voting provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, including those applicable to servicemen and tourists, with a view to remedying any anomalies. The question of voting by servicemen has been explained in some detail by the Minister for Administrative Services in his answer to the Member's letter dated 24 February 1976. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answers to the honourable member's question. 
Section 85 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides, in part, that an elector who will be precluded from attending at any polling booth to vote, due to an approaching maternity, may make application for a postal vote. 
Yes. 
Display advertisements listing postal voting entitlements were placed in the major metropolitan daily newspapers by the Australian Electoral Office between 28 November and 8 December 1975. Each paper published the advertisement on three occasions. 
-Yes, I do remember the question which was asked by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to the Moore v. Doyle question. At the time I indicated that I would be prepared to take up with my State colleagues, the State Ministers for Labor, the question of how the very difficult problem might be tackled. In my answer to the Leader of the Opposition I indicated that whereas some legislation had been passed by this Parliament the indications were that there was no likelihood of the introduction of complementary legislation by certain State Parliaments which was required to make the federal legislation effective. We therefore have to look at the question again to try to find some way around this particularly difficult problem, and I am starting work on that now. In relation to the particular question asked by the honourable member, I am aware that certain unions and their officials have been placed in a very difficult position by the current situation. 
-Yes, the people who are being enrolled in this situation are put in a difficult position. I can point to no chance, I think, of an early solution, but in view of the fact that the legislation as at present constituted shows Utile signs of resolving the problem I am anxious to look at it again to see whether a fresh approach may bring a more profitable and worthwhile result. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Fire Board for the year 1974-75. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The following are the makes of car and countries of manufacture of each of the cars provided to Australian Heads of Mission overseas during the 3 years ended 31 December 1975. The country of design of the vehicles is not known: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The revision of the full-time allowance under NEAT, which I announced on 1 1 February, will relate benefits more closely to the needs of individual trainees and provide the capacity to assist more people with training to overcome employment difficulties. 
It is estimated that over a full year this extra training capacity could amount to an additional 3000 training places given the present allocation of funds to the scheme and the present pattern of training. 
In addition to a basic allowance, equal to the unemployment benefit which would be payable to the individual concerned, trainees will receive a training component equal to 20 per cent of the Average Award Wage ( 10 per cent in the case of trainees less than 18 years). This training component is currently $23.40 per week. The training component will be paid in all cases where the gross income of the trainee and spouse, if any, is less than 116 times Average Weekly Earnings, currently $238.20 per week. 
Trainees who have an entitlement to a pension, for example, widows, will be able to elect to receive whichever is the greater, the pension or the basic NEAT allowance. In either case, the training component under NEAT will also be paid. 
The total allowance is subject to income tax. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1973 1 present the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
The speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was full of misconceptions, but it contained one error of fact which I should like to correct at the start. He referred to the case of a widow with 2 dependant children. I point out to the House that such a trainee under the national employment and training scheme gets her widow's pension to which she is entitled, plus child allowances, plus a rent allowance if applicable, and in addition is permitted to earn $20 a week before any reduction is made in her allowance, not $6 a week as alleged by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
Having said that, let me say that I am indebted to the honourable member for providing an opportunity for this House to expose one of the most inequitable, ill-considered schemes of the previous Government. There were so many in this category that we are not able to examine all of them; so I thank him for the opportunity to examine one of the worst. When the former Government approved the introduction of its national employment and training scheme it accepted that the full time training allowance should be equal to the average adult male award wage. I point out that the Labor Government simply did not live up to its commitments with regard to the adjustment of the full time allowance. It was allowed to fall into limbo. Only one adjustment was made, in May 1975, up to the $96.80 a week, on the ground that the principle of indexation was being applied to the full time allowance. No further adjustments were made. So, any allegation by the Opposition that there is some breaking of an undertaking by the Government is so much humbug. No scheme is immutable and in fact that was recognised initially by the previous Government. It repudiated its own agreement with people who signed up under what were the original NEAT arrangements. One the other hand, we are doing exactly what we said we would do prior to the election. The reason for the previous Government's failure to live up to its commitments is not difficult to find. One newspaper last week put it very aptly It stated: 
The NEAT scheme, despite its initial good intentions, quickly established a reputation for itself as one of the more outrageous middle-class fiddles introduced by the Whitlam Government. 
The point is that the NEAT system was not assisting all of those it was intended to assist or those in need. Labor was stultified, devoid of ideas and unable to redress the grave inequities which it itself had created. However, the experience with the NEAT allowance demonstrated another of Labor's shortcomings, and that was its inability to co-ordinate different programs. A trainee under NEAT got a wage-related payment of $96.80 a week entirely free of means or income testing. A person regarded as furthering his education got a basic allowance of about $33 a week subject to a means test. This was despite the fact that 2 people, each on one of those differing allowances, could be side by side in the same school studying the same subjects. As I said in my Press statement on 11 February when detailing the new arrangements for NEAT: 
The means test on the NEAT allowance in common with all other means tests will be examined in the course of the operations of the review of income security. 
The Government, in coming to office, reviewed NEAT and decided on the following criteria: 
Training under NEAT should lead to qualifications for which there is an employment demand; 
NEAT applicants should demonstrate evidence of willingness to work; 
NEAT applicants should train for skills that are in demand; 
An income test should be applied and that the NEAT full-time allowances should be revised. 
I should like to point out that the basic purpose of NEAT in a time of rapid technological and structural change is to enable people to upgrade their skills so that they can make a satisfactory life for themselves and a productive contribution to the economy. Essentially therefore NEAT is directed towards people having difficulty in getting a job. The concept is excellent. But as with so many schemes of the previous Government, it went completely haywire in its application. People with perfectly good jobs just walked in off the street and straight into NEAT-at $96.80 a week paid by the taxpayer. People who just wanted to do a course which interested them were accepted into NEAT by the thousands- at $96.80 a week paid by the taxpayer. People who genuinely wanted to learn a new skill but whose family incomes could be in the region of $20,000 to $30,000 a year were accepted into NEAT- at $96.80 a week paid by the taxpayer. The Government supports the principle of people being able to get a skill for a job which is in demand in the work force. But under the Labor Government the NEAT scheme was in all too many instances a racket. We made it perfectly plain that we intended to apply a means test to NEAT so that those who were in genuine need of assistance would get it. Thanks to the disastrous policies of the previous Government, there were certainly plenty of people in that category. Having created the greatest pool of unemployment in Australia since the Depression, one claim Labor could make was that there was a need for NEAT. 
Let us look at the composition of the hundreds of thousands of unemployed. Who are the very first people hurt when there is a recession? It is the people with the least skill- the unskilled and those with minimum skill. It is no coincidence that while over 5000 professional and semiprofessional people have been accepted into NEAT only 188 unskilled have been accepted into the scheme. That is because the previous Labor Government completely failed to establish proper criteria for eligibility. People who knew how to work the system got a very large share of the $50m-odd made available for the scheme. I should have thought that the Australian Labor Party of all parties would have been interested in seeing that those most disadvantaged sections in the community- the unemployed with very little skill- were the first, not the last, to be assisted by a training scheme. But no. These people were neglected by the Labor Party and they made their feelings known in the ballot box last December. Traditional Labor supporters deserted the Party in droves. Not only had these people been put out of work by the Party's policies, they then were largely ignored in the application of the training scheme which allegedly was designed to find them other jobs. 
For months prior to the last election we made it clear that the totally inequitable situation which applied then, while apparently being quite acceptable to the Labor Parry, was certainly not acceptable to us. We said that as soon as we were in a position to do so we would introduce a means test for NEAT to ensure that the allowances paid under the scheme more accurately reflected the needs of the individual trainees in the scheme. The allowances paid under the new arrangements are composed of 2 elements. The first concerns the unemployment benefit to which the person concerned would be eligible. This of course varies with the individual circumstances of each person. Those with a dependent spouse and one dependent child will get very nearly the same amount as they did under the old arrangements. Those with a dependent spouse and two or more dependent children will get more than they did under the old scheme. I put it that that is as it should be. But in addition to the unemployment benefit to which the individual is entitled, a training component equal to 20 per cent of the average male award wage is also payable. It is 10 per cent in the case of those under 18 years of age. At the present time the training component is $23.40 for adults or $1 1.70 for those under 18 years. 
The new arrangements are not restricted only to those who are entitled to unemployment benefit. Trainees coming from a family where the combined income of the trainee and the spouse is up to $238 a week or about $12,000 a year are still entitled to the training component of $23.40. Even further than that, under the new arrangements, trainees who are excluded by the means test from both the unemployment benefit component and the training component, that is, where the combined income of trainee and spouse exceeds $12,000 a year, the trainee is entitled to free books and payment of fees for the course he is undertaking. In other words, the scheme is now properly related to the needs of those seeking training. Incidentally, for the information of the House I might point out that unlike the allegations that have been floating around in recent days, there is no evidence so far at any rate of any large scale withdrawal from training as some people seem to believe. 
So first of all, to be eligible for NEAT people have to be unemployed- unlike the situation which applied when the scheme was introduced. Secondly, the skill which the unemployed are seeking to be trained in must be in demand in the labour market- again unlike the original scheme. Thirdly, the allowances paid under the scheme will reflect the individual needs and circumstances of the trainee so that the really disadvantaged, such as those with a dependent spouse and two or more dependent children, will get more under the new arrangements. As a result of the change and as a result of the Government's decision not to cut the total amount allocated to NEAT, despite stringent restrictions on government spending made necessary by the spendthrift policies of its predecessors, approximately an additional 3 000 people will be able to be accepted into the NEAT scheme. That figure will include many juniors unable to get a job because of the campaign of industrial destruction of the previous Government and many semi-skilled and unskilled adults put out of work by the same disastrous economic incompetence. 
Yes, the job vacancy situation does continue to cause me and the Government concern. The job vacancy decline in last month's published employment figures was, if not substantial, at least large enough to cause some worry. The employment situation will not improve until business confidence, which was destroyed by 3 years of Labor Government, has been returned. That is a plain fact of life. The Government has already announced measures designed to stimulate investment in the private sector and to create the job opportunities that are so desperately needed in Australia. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, he will know that all the money budgeted by his Government for the Regional Employment Development scheme for the entire financial year was used before the end of 1975. In view of the constraints on government spending, this Government has decided to maintain the stand taken by its predecessor in relation to this financial year. 
by leave- The House will recall that during the election campaign last year the Government emphasised the importance it attached to the need to eliminate widespread abuse of the unemployment benefit system. The House will also be aware of the action to implement this promise in mid- January last when the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and I announced a number of measures designed to tighten the unemployment benefit work test. I now want to announce some further measures which the Government recently decided to adopt. However, before doing so, I should like to acquaint honourable members with some brief background details. 
Currently, there are still nearly 200 000 persons receiving unemployment benefit in Australia, and the cost to the taxpayer of unemployment benefit payments is in the vicinity of $480m per annum. Furthermore, it should be noted that: In February 1972, about 30 per cent of unemployed registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service received unemployment benefit, and this had increased to 70 per cent in February 1976; about 70 per cent of male recipients at the latest analysis last year were unmarried; some two-fifths were under 21 years; and three-quarters of them had been on benefit for more than one month. 
Between May 1975 and January 1976 some 112 000 beneficiaries were selected for field officer visits by the Department of Social Security. As a result of these visits 30 per cent of cases were terminated, though there is no suggestion of deception or fraud in every case. Often the beneficiaries have only recently obtained work and have had little time to notify the Department of Social Security; their domestic circumstances have altered in a way which disqualifies them from benefit; they may no longer satisfy the work test requirement; or they have left their normal address and have not notified the Department Of course, in some cases there is blatant misrepresentation. In these instances a prosecution is considered and in most cases appropriate action is taken. 
Pursuant to section 7 (7) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1975, I present a copy of the Remuneration Tribunal determination relating to the Administrative Review Committee and the independent inquiry to determine the fees for medical benefit purposes, 1 January 1976 to 31 December 1976. 
I must admit it sounds odd to me to hear the words just spoken by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  whose Government was responsible for destroying much of Geelong 's industry in the last couple of years. I shall take up with my colleague the question that the honourable member has raised. I thank the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  for paying me the courtesy of informing me that he was going to bring up the subject of income maintenance tonight. It is a sorry story in itself. It is a condemnation of the ineptitude of the previous Government. Income maintenance was made necessary as a direct result of that Government's disastrous economic policies and it is one more unwelcome legacy left to this Government. Some payments to people were made in error by my Department under the Structural Adjustment Assistance scheme at a time when the Department was working under very great pressure in attempting to cope with a large volume of claims due to the all too successful campaign of industrial destruction waged by the Labor Government. The whole position is indeed a difficult and delicate one. 
The Department had no authority to pay these people and, notwithstanding that the error was not the fault of the claimants, it has an obligation to recover the amounts overpaid. There are cases in which some people at the company in question were paid in error and others were not paid. So obviously if the repayment demand is waived their colleagues have every right to demand payment also. I should say that at present my Department has suspended recovery action pending detailed investigation into the administrative and legal implications of the situation. I should mention that where a person is able to establish that repayment will impose hardship on him arrangements can be made for the repayments to be made by instalment. In cases of extreme hardship my Department can seek authority from the Treasury to waive the repayment. 
-The honourable member will be aware that the metal industry is a very diverse one as well as being a large employer of labour. He will be aware also that Commissioner Heagney of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is undertaking a review of all aspects of the metal trades industry. That inquiry has been going on for some time. I believe that when Commissioner Heagney reports on the metal industry and possible anomalies in the wages situation within it, the report will be very valuable and the Government will be examining it with great interest. 
I cannot vouch for all of the dismeanours which the honourable member for Bourke has outlined, but if he is satisfied that they are all in progress at the present time, I accept that they are. Many of the strikes to which the honourable gentleman refers are in clear breach of awards. In one instance at least- that involving the Storemen and Packers Union and the wool bale dispute- it is in clear breach of an agreement which was signed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, to which the ACTU was a party, and to which the union, brokers and other people were also parties. That dispute has succeeded in tying up about $100m worth of Australian wool. It has delayed payments to growers and has threatened Australia's reputation as a reliable trading partner. 
I cannot remember all the disputes the honourable gentleman referred to but in relation to the Transport Workers Union and the airlines dispute I am advised that the members of that union will be back at work from midnight tonight and that the question has been referred to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the proper body to hear disputes of that kind. If the honourable member would like advice on what action the Government has taken in some of the other disputes he mentioned I would be happy to provide it although I am not sure whether or not he wants it. If he does want information on action that the Government has taken I am offering to provide it to him, where I can. That is all. The Government will be considering the wider question of policy in the course of this year. 
-The figures quoted by the honourable member for his electorate in June last year and last month, of course, do not necessarily reflect the cessation of the Regional 
Employment Development scheme. The difference between the figures could be due to factors other than that. The administration of the RED scheme under the previous Government was nothing short of a disaster. The previous Government budgeted for $ 135m for the financial year 1975-76. In September, just about a month after the Budget was presented, the previous Government realised that it had either spent or committed all the money for which it had budgeted for the financial year. As a result, some 4000 projects which had been put forward and which met the criteria established by the previous Government had to be cancelled. With respect to some 900 projects which had been approved, as a result of the previous Government's poor administration that approval had to be withdrawn, even though many sponsors of projects had spent money in assembling materials and so on prior to labour being engaged. As a result of all this maladministration the previous Government had to cancel any further involvement in the RED scheme and it announced its winding-down as from about September or October last year. 
With this record in mind, quite clearly the present Government would not wish to be involved in something of equally disastrous proportions. As far as employment-creating schemes are concerned, the Government will have to operate within the financial constraints imposed on it by a record deficit of $7,000m accumulated in 2 years of Labor government. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Every return made in pursuance of section 151 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act is open to public inspection upon payment of the prescribed fee of 50c. 
As all returns lodged with the Australian Electoral Officers are available for inspection by members, it is not proposed to make information from the returns otherwise available. 
The returns to be made by political organisations pursuant to section 152 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act must be filed with the Australian Electoral Officer for the State in which the election took place, within twelve weeks after the result of the election has been declared. The twelve weeks period has not yet expired. 
I shall refer the Leader of the Opposition's question to my colleague and get an answer for him as soon as possible. 
-The honourable member will remember leading and introducing to me a delegation from that area on the issues that he has raised. As a result of the representations of that delegation I undertook to make certain investigations and let him know the results in due course. Those investigations are still proceeding. The honourable member will know that the principal reason why Cobar is in such a difficult situation is the decline in metal prices, particularly copper prices. I am not aware of the date of release of the IAC report to which the honourable member has referred. I will ask my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, and endeavour to get the information for him. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. Due to the limited number available at this time reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office and the Parliamentary Library. Printed copies of the report will be available for normal distribution towards the end of this month. 
-As the honourable member is probably aware, the actual payment of unemployment benefits is under the control of my colleague, the Minister for Social Security. The administration of the work test is under the control of my Department. As I understand the positionthis is subject to checking with my colleague- the Social Service Act already provides for deferment of the payment of unemployment benefit in certain cases. We have now specified the maximum period of such deferment. In relation to the detailed questions as to the timing of the commencement of this 6-week period, I will make inquiries of my colleague and give the honourable member an answer. 
-The present dispute had its origins in, as the honourable member said, the maximum weight of wool bales. Many years ago- I think it was in 1964- an agreement was entered into by the parties concerned that the maximum weight should be 204 kilograms. That agreement was signed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other parties to it. This dispute had its origin when, quite unilaterally, the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia repudiated that agreement and said that it would not handle any bales over the weight of 180 kilograms. The ACTU advised the Union to keep to its agreement and lift the bans on the handling of wool; but apparently the ACTU is quite incapable of ensuring that the storemen and packers keep to their agreement. 
The dispute has now widened in accordance with the declared objective of the Storemen and Packers Union to smash the national wage case guidelines. Allied to their ban on the handling of wool bales in relation to the maximum weight dispute, the storemen and packers have now put in claims for a 35-hour week and substantial wage rises. I was staggered to find that a Minister in the South Australian Government was quoted yesterday as saying that if wool growers wanted to be paid for their wool they should lend their support strongly to the Storemen and Packers Union to see that the Union's claims were met by the wool selling agents. I find that a most extraordinary - 
-The Minister for Agriculture. I find it extraordinary that a Minister should advocate the breaking of an agreement- in fact, advocate the smashing of the national wage case guidelines. As a result of this dispute farmers' incomes have been frozen. They are now paying about $2.4m a week in interest and they are awaiting payment for approximately $70m worth of wool which has been sold already but which is still in store and cannot be moved. The dispute now threatens about $200m worth of wool which is due to be sold between now and the end of the wool selling season. This dispute has now resulted in a complete disruption of the world trade in wool and wool users are now threatening to turn their production over to synthetic fibres because they cannot get access to wool. This is nothing short of a tragedy for many growers. It is rapidly assuming the proportions of a national tragedy for Australia's greatest industry. When this matter was referred to the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission a week or so ago the Government gave notice of its intention to intervene in the national interest. As the honourable member probably is aware, this case is now part of the review of the wage fixing guidelines which has been set down for hearing next week. 
-Yes, I am aware of the ministerial conference to which the honourable member for Gellibrand referred. We are greatly indebted to the Australian Ambassador to the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development,  Mr Cameron,  for his contribution to that conference. I have had my attention drawn to the communique which was issued at the end of the conference and to which the honourable gentleman referred. The communique is under study by my Department, and the various issues which it raises are ones of policy which will be considered by the Government in due course. I make one reference to what was a fairly long statement: The new work test guidelines which we have introduced for the payment of the unemployment benefit in no way jeopardise the position of the genuine job seekers. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Department of Administrative Services provides Commonwealth car transport in the States but not in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. The Department of Capital Territory provides car transport in the Australian Capital Territory and the Department of Northern Territory in the Northern Territory. 
In addition to the car pool services, Commonwealth cars are issued to Departments and Authorities on weekly hire with driver, or on a self-drive basis. 
As the costing systems used are not identical, separate figures are provided below .for each Department. 
The levels of expenditure incurred by Department of Administrative Services in respect of Commonwealth passenger car pool services and private contract hire car and taxi companies since July, 1975 are as follows: 
Department of Northern Territory has provided the following information: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) All trainees under the NEAT System are required to submit a fortnightly statement to their training supervisor in the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) showing attendance and noting the reasons for any absences from training during the period. 
Emphasis is placed on maintenance of satisfactory progress with training as shown by attendance rather than penalties through deductions because of non-attendance at training courses. Where attendance is considered unsatisfactory, the training supervisor may caution the trainee and, if necessary, recommend suspension or termination of the trainee's allowance. 
Before the commencement of training, NEAT trainees are informed of the procedures governing the payment of allowances and of the obligation to submit statements of attendance. They are also advised that non-attendance may result in suspension or termination of allowances. 
As from the inception of the NEAT system on 1 October 1974 and up until 31 December 1975, 739 trainees-382 females and 357 males- had their training terminated. The reasons for termination of training varied but the majority were attributable to failure to maintain satisfactory progress, including unsatisfactory attendance. 
Yes, I agree that union leaders do exercise considerable power in the community. I think the House would agree that considerable power should carry with it an equal sense of responsibility which sometimes, I regret to say, is lacking. If the leader of the ACTU says that he is satisfied with the way in which all union elections are now conducted, it is quite clear that thousands of union members are not. Many union leaders are not.  Mr Short  has already indicated that.  Mr Egan  has indicated that. They have said that they strongly support the Government's intention that in due course, after legislation has been discussed with the parties and introduced into this Parliament, elections for all officers in industrial organisations, whether of employers or employees, should be under the control of the Commonwealth Electoral Office. Indeed, I understand that in a recent opinion poll over 80 per cent of the people interviewed had that same opinion. No single issue was more widely discussed or debated during the recent election campaign, and it received the overwhelming endorsement of the electorate. 
The honourable gentleman referred to the percentage of votes cast in certain elections. My information is that at the last election for the leadership of the union to which I think the honourable member referred- the AMWU, which has some 170 000 members- the leadership was elected on a vote of approximately 1.8 per cent of the membership of the union. The leader of the union now holds his office by a vote of 1 . 1 per cent of the membership of the union. 
I understand that is  Mr Scott.  I am further informed that, as the House would know, under section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act unions can request a ballot to be conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office at public expense and that the average percentage of votes cast in elections conducted under section 170 is of the order of 40 per cent. 
-The honourable member for Hindmarsh refers, I think, to section 133 of the Act. The Government has received representations from the union movement and employer organisations expressing dissatisfaction with the present legislation. We have given an undertaking to employer organisations and the unions which have made representations on this point that in considering amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act we will take into account the representations they have made. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Ministers have been advised that they should normally be accompanied by not more than one member of their personal staff when travelling interstate or overseas. Where necessary, a Minister may also be accompanied by his Press Secretary. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 4 March 1976. 
I did answer a question on this topic in this House not long ago. At that time I said that I had received representations from both unions and employer organisations for some form of collegiate voting to be maintained. It is certainly not inconsistent with the Government's policy that that be so. There is a view that the imposition of any particular form of election by legislation is in itself some interference with the democratic process. Therefore I feel that the important thing is that the views of the people affected by any such change should be sought before the change is made, as I understand was not the case when the honourable gentleman made the amendments to the Act in 1973. I shall be seeking the views of both sides of the industrial relations field before making any final recommendations to the Government. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Australian Heads of Mission at the following overseas posts were supplied with vehicles not of Australian design during the three years ended 3 1 December 1975: 
Accra, Algiers, Ankara, Athens, Bangkok, Beirut, Belgrade, Berne, Bonn, Brasilia, Dar Es Salaam, Dublin, Geneva, Hanoi, Jeddah, Lagos, Lima, Lisbon, Madrid, Manila, Mexico City, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York (UN), Noumea, Ottawa, Paris, Peking, Pretoria, Rangoon, Rome, Santiago, Sao Paulo, Seoul, Stockholm, Tel Aviv, The Hague, Tokyo, Warsaw, Washington. 
The cost of freight for an Australian made vehicle to an overseas post in (1) is estimated at not less than $300. Actual costs of shipping Australian made vehicles to a number of posts during this period are as follows: 
Experience has shown that effective after sales service and the ready availability of spare parts for Australian made vehicles normally is found only at posts where these vehicles are sold in commercial quantities. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Detailed costs of guarding the Governor-General are not kept. The major cost would be the cost of wages paid to the members of the Commonwealth Police Force involved. 
26 March 1976- four Commonwealth Police Officers. 27 March 1 976-two Commonwealth Police Officers. 
No. The cost of guarding the Governor-General is met from the appropriation for the Commonwealth Police Force. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister approved the re-establishment of the Interdepartmental Committee on Location of Australian Government Employment on 20 January 1976. 

The Public Service Board. 
The Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Treasury, Administrative Services, Environment, Housing and Community Development, and the Capital Territory. 
The Committee is required toreport and recommend to the Prime Minister on all matters relating to the location of existing or proposed units of Australian Government Employment, having regard to: 
Government policies on urban and regional development, decentralisation, and the regionalisation of Australian Government services, as announced from time to time; 
the accommodation situation in major cities (including Canberra); and 
efficiency in administration, and the preservation of the interests of staff. 
As indicated in (c) above the Committee will report to the Prime Minister from time to time as requirements for Government decisions on location of Government employment occur. 
I am well aware of the honourable member's interest in and constant representations on behalf of the industries in his electorate. Indeed, I remember attending one of these mills with him. I am aware that the company intends to increase its employment by approximately 100 people. As an employer of some 1900 people in the north west of Tasmania this company is the major single employer in the region and it has a major bearing on the economy of the region- a region which incidentally has been experiencing very severe difficulties due to the policies of the previous Government. The intended action by the company to increase its employment is a welcome development which should go some way to easing the very severe problems that the area has been experiencing. I understand that the company's reason for taking on extra people is some increase in the demand for paper. I am further informed that in engaging labour to fill these extra 100 positions preference will be given to those employees who were retrenched due to the policies of the previous Government. 
-Yes, my attention has been drawn to this matter. It has received some publicity. It may be of interest to the House if I outline briefly some of the claims which are said to be about to be made on the company. They include a 30 per cent across-the-board increase in wages, which would amount to up to $50 a week extra for many workers; a 3 5 -hour week; an increase in annual leave from 4 weeks to 5 weeks, with 6 weeks for 7-day shift workers; a 25 per cent loading on annual and long service leave; rises in shift rates; maternity leave, 12 weeks fully paid, with up to 52 weeks total absence for each confinement; one week's paternity leave; multi-cover hospital and dental cover on a non-contributory basis should there be any change in Medibank; and the right to retire at 60 with the same superannuation provisions as apply at present to retirement at age 65. 
I am informed by the company that it has no formal knowledge of these claims. In fact I am informed that they are under consideration at present by the shop stewards employed by the company who in due course will be serving a log of claims. To my knowledge that has not yet been done. The important thing is that the company has assured me that in no way will it agree to any increase in wages outside the indexation guidelines or enter into any agreement of a sweetheart nature or which would involve a pace-setting principle. The log of claims which it is alleged may be presented to the company in due course is an indication of the sort of claims which, if granted, would be an absolute guarantee of increasing inflation in Australia, accompanied by ever-rising unemployment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Throughout 1 973-74, a period of high employment in the building industry, the percentage of the labour force directly employed in the building and construction industry averaged 8.8 per cent. 
It is estimated by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development that a further 10 per cent of the labour force, employed mainly in the manufacture of building materials, rely principally on demand from the building and construction industry. 
The latest data available, for November 1975, shows that the level of unemployment within the labour force of the building and construction industry was 5.1 per cent. Information on the rate of unemployment in the building materials industries is not available. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Approximately 44 000. 
The value of accumulated long service leave is estimated to be $170,000,000. When any Public Servant takes the long service leave to which he is entitled, the extra cost to the Government is dependent on the particular relief arrangements, if any, necessary to enable him to do so. It is therefore not practicable to state the extra cost to the Government in the unlikely event that every Public Servant sought to take his accumulated entitlement before retirement. 
On the basis of known recent cessations of service the estimated annual cost of lump sum payments for accumulated long service leave, assuming no leave was taken during service, is $8,000,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the five years to the December quarter 1975, the Consumer Price Index increased by 68 per cent compared with an estimated increase of 132 per cent in the average weekly minimum wage rates for adults and 99 per cent in the average weekly male earnings. 
Yes. 
The rural industry has been disadvantaged, as indeed have many Australian industries, through the erosion of their competitive position in relation to many overseas countries. With the escalation of costs the rural industry has been particularly vulnerable since it has much less scope than other industries to increase the price of its products. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No such direction has been issued. It has been the policy of successive Governments for many years that, in order to satisfy the Work Test, a female recipient of Unemployment Benefit should be required to accept employment away from home provided that the person concerned is over 18 years, is single, and is not pregnant. This policy was confirmed by the Government in January when it announced new measures relating to the administration of the Work Test. 
and (3) Seasonal harvest employment because of its temporary nature is not normally included in the range of employment used to work test girls. The Commonwealth Employment Service has a clear policy in relation to female workers wishing to undertake seasonal work. For example, in the case of the dried fruits harvest, in the Sunraysia district, if any females indicate they would like to work on the harvest, and if growers are willing to accept them, the CES will not refer them unless, to the best of its knowledge, the accommodation is of acceptable standard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No such directive has been issued to or by my Department. If a person declines an offer of employment or leaves a position, allegedly because the employer refused to pay the award rate for the job, and if after investigation his allegations are correct, his eligibility for unemployment benefit is not affected. I would like to add that the Commonwealth Employment Service does not refer applicants to employment where it is aware that the employer is paying below the award rate. 
NEAT Scheme (Question No. 265) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most recent statistics relating to the number of persons in training under NEAT are as at end March. 
The total number of trainees at that date was 7404 persons. 
This total was made up as follows- 
4SS2 persons in full-time formal training 
705 persons in part-time training 
236 persons undertaking training, by correspondence 
1 828 persons in in-plant, ie on-the-job training 
83 persons in a combination of in-plant and formal training. 
NEAT Scheme (Question No. 266) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures on persons seeking assistance under NEAT and who are interviewed in this regard do not differentiate between those wanting full-time as opposed to part-time training. 
During the months of February some 2030 people were interviewed with regard to their consideration for assistance under NEAT. During March 1594 people were so interviewed. 
As at end March there were 4552 persons in full-time training and 705 persons in part-time training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The number of unemployed tradesmen registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service at the end of March 1976 in the building and construction and metal industries in each State was: 
The figures quoted relate only to indentured apprentices. 
Examinations to assess the proficiency of apprentices at various stages during their technical education studies are conducted by the appropriate State authorities. In addition, apprentices in the licensed trades such as electricians and plumbers are tested before being allowed to practise their trade. Apprentice trainee tradesmen who move from one State to another are accepted by employer and union alike except in the licensed trades where recognition may not be automatic. 
Figures relating to the intake of building and metal trades apprentices into each Commonwealth Department during the last 10 years are not readily available. However, my Department is currently obtaining information on intakes covering the last five years. When this information becomes available I will send it to the honourable member. 
-The honourable gentleman's speech during an adjournment debate last week was brought to my attention. He made certain allegations regarding elections currently being conducted in the Federated Clerks Union by the Australian Electoral Officer for Victoria. He made the allegations that he has repeated here this afternoon. The elections for officers in the 
Victorian Branch of this union and for the Federal councillors from that branch are being conducted by the Electoral Office at the request of the Victorian State Executive and the Federal Executive of the union. They are being conducted in accordance with section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Industrial Registrar, who approved the section 170 application, asked the Electoral Officer to conduct the ballot on his behalf. I think it would be useful to the House if I were to quote part of section 170a of the Act, because it is relevant to what the honourable member has asked. 
Section 170a (1) states:  a person conducting an election . . . may . . . take such action and give such directions as he considers necessary in order to ensure that no irregularities occur in . . . the election. . . 
Such a person- in this instance the Australian Electoral Officer in Victoria- is in sole charge of the election and there is no way that I or any other person can take any action to intrude into that person's conduct of the election under section 170 of the Act. I am quite sure that the honourable gentleman, with his long experience in this field, is well aware of the legal position. But I am informed that if requests to examine the lists of members of this union are made in the proper way the lists will be made available. I understand that the original request was made- I am not sure whether it was made verbally- certainly in an informal manner before the rolls for the election were fully prepared. I am informed that the rolls for the election are now prepared and that if a formal request is made they will be made available. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has supplied the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
2 044 800m2. 
1 115 600m2, $54,448,000. 
My Department is currently assessing projected requirements for office space in the light of the Government's current review of the functions of the Public Service. I will not be in a position to inform the honourable member of any firm projections before this review is completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The decision by the previous Government to limit the RED Scheme to $ 1 35m in the 1 975-76 Budget led the Ministers' Committee formerly responsible for the administration of the Scheme to resolve on 10 September 1975 that no further cost escalation- regardless of now or when incurred- - could be funded on projects other than in the most exceptional circumstances. 
Following advice by my Department that limited funds are available within the 1 975-76 Budget allocation of $1 35m for the Scheme, I have agreed to meet outstanding applications from sponsors which have experienced cost escalations due to award wage increases occurring before 10 September 1975 and paid to labour recruited from amongst unemployed CES registrants. 
I must emphasise that other cost escalations cannot be met except in the most exceptional circumstances. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Section 15 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides that the returns of candidates' expenses shall be retained by the Australian Electoral Officer for the State and shall be open to public inspection during office hours on payment of the prescribed fee of 50c, for a period of six months from the date of polling. The periods for inspection of returns lodged following the elections on 2 December 1972 and 1 8 May 1 974 have now expired. It is not proposed to furnish information in relation to these returns outside the provisions of the law. 
Every return made in pursuance of section 151 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and lodged following the elections of 13 December 1975 is open to public inspection upon payment of the prescribed fee of 50c. It is not proposed to make information from the returns otherwise available. 
Every return made in pursuance of section 152 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and lodged following the elections of 2 December 1972, 18 May 1974 and 13 December 1975 is open to public inspection upon payment of the prescribed fee of 50c. It is not proposed to make information from the returns otherwise available. 
I have noticed recent reports in the Press and elsewhere relating to the recent agreement which has been reached in the United Kingdom on the question of wage increases in line with the figures that the right honourable gentleman has given. I would like to commend the highly responsible attitude which has been shown by leaders of the trade union movement in that country. The fact is that excessive wage rises cannot benefit anybody; certainly not wage earners who will soon find that the gains are illusory and that their jobs are put at risk; certainly not the unemployed whose prospects of getting a job are reduced; certainly not the retired who are seeing their savings eroded by the vicious effects of inflation; certainly not the young whose prospects and hopes of owning their own home are diminishing with skyrocketing building costs; certainly not the selfemployed who have no recourse to any automatic form of wage or salary increase; and certainly not Australian exporters who are now facing a steadily deteriorating position in relation to our major trading partners. 
Australia has an inflation rate of 13.4 per cent, Japan 9.4 per cent and the United States of America 6.3 per cent. The average for all countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is 9.3 per cent. It is vital for economic recovery in Australia that wage increases not exceed the capacity of industry to pay. If they do, an inevitable result will be a decline in industrial activity. I sincerely hope that  Mr Hawke,  the leaders of the trade union movement in this country and all sections of the Australian community will join this Government in its attack on inflation. It is in everybody's interest to do so. We must control what is undoubtedly the greatest threat to Australia's achieving what all of us know this country is capable of achieving. 
-The honourable member has raised an issue which I know is of great concern to many local government authorities and other sponsors of RED scheme projects. The fact of the matter is that the previous Labor Government in I think September or October of last year informed the sponsors of projects that no increases in costs due to escalation in wages could be funded. Until that time there had been some funding of such increases. The previous Government made a decision that the total amount of money available to the RED scheme should not exceed the budgetary allocation of $135m. That decision was subsequently confirmed by the present Government. 
At the moment the RED scheme is in the process of being wound up. Some projects are still going and it is very difficult to know exactly what the total cost of the scheme will be, bearing in mind the fact that we cannot exceed the $135m allocated in the Budget. However, it has been possible, now that the end of the scheme is in sight, to fund some increases in costs due to the escalation of wages up to 10 September 1975. The sponsoring organisation already have been informed that any escalation due to wage rises after that period cannot be funded. I am in the process of going through the details of all the relevant projects which might be entitled now to some recompense for increases in costs due to an escalation in wages prior to 10 September 1 975. 1 am sure the honourable member will appreciate that with the thousands of projects which were involved this is a substantial task, but I have asked that it be done as soon as possible. Those organisations which are to be entitled to some compensation for the type of cost I mentioned will be informed as soon as I can arrange it. 
Pursuant to section 7 (7) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1975 I present a copy of Remuneration Tribunal determinations relating to the  Chairman  of the Interim Darwin Reconstruction Commission, and the Schools Commission part-time  chairman  of planning and finance committees- New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-1974 in 2 ways: Firstly to extend the operation of the Act from 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1976; secondly, to enable refunds to be made to the 
Fremantle Port Authority, in respect of certain employees of the Port Authority. 
 The Bill is a very simple one. The most important aspect of it is that it seeks to extend the operation of the legislation for a limited period. Members will be aware that this Act has been extended on a number of previous occasions and the Government finds it necessary to do so again for reasons which I will outline. The Government has given detailed consideration to the future arrangements to apply in this industry and I propose to elaborate on the attitude the Government takes to this whole question later in this speech. To give effect to what the Government proposes it will of course be necessary to extend the operation of the Act until 3 1 December 1 976. 
Before proceeding to elaborate on the Government 's attitude to future arrangements for the industry I want to refer briefly to that aspect of the Bill dealing with waterside workers employed by the Fremantle Port Authority. The Bill seeks to facilitate an agreement reached by the Fremantle Port Authority and the Waterside Workers Federation and it is a matter which has the support of the Stevedoring Industry Council. It concerns approximately 30 members of the Waterside Workers Federation currently employed by the Fremantle Port Authority as crane drivers. These men are not registered waterside workers and their conditions of employment with the Authority provide for different long service leave and pension entitlements to entitlements for registered waterside workers under existing legislation. 
In 1973 the Fremantle Port Authority and the WWF agreed in principle to an arrangement whereby crane drivers would become registered waterside workers but retain separate long service leave and pension entitlements. This arrangement is limited to waterside workers employed as crane drivers at the time of registration. Persons employed in the future as crane drivers are to be subject to the normal conditions of employment. Efforts were made in 1974 to resolve the matter by regulation. However legislative amendment is necessary to enable the long service leave and pension components of the stevedoring industry charge in respect of these men to be reimbursed to the Port Authority which makes direct provision for these matters. A Bill with the same purpose was introduced into Parliament in November 1975 but lapsed at the second reading stage when Parliament was prorogued. 
The intention of the Bill- clause 4- is to permit the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to refund to the Fremantle Port Authority amounts equal to such parts of the stevedoring industry charge as the ASIA considers appropriate for the purpose of meeting the long service leave and pension entitlements of a waterside worker in respect of persons who, prior to their registration as waterside workers, were employed as crane drivers by the Fremantle Port Authority. I now wish to elaborate on the consideration the Government has given to the overall question of the future of the industry and what the Government believes is the proper course to take. 
Legislative Involvement in the Industry 
The Commonwealth's direct statutory role in relation to the stevedoring industry actually began in 1928. It was in 1942 however that wartime conditions compelled the Government to take steps designed to end the chaotic labour situation which had developed on the waterfront during the early years of the war. This role was exercised initially by means of National Security Regulations which provided for a Stevedoring Industry Commission under the chairmanship of the Chief Judge of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. The Commission became inoperative in 1949 and was replaced by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Board. In turn, the Board was replaced by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in 1956. The Authority has continued in existence since that time, although, as indicated below, its powers have undergone considerable change since 1967. Legislation which regulates this industry is as follows: The Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1973, The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-1974, The Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1975, and The Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act 1 947- 1 973. The "first mentioned Act set up the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and has been superseded in many respects by the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act introduced in 1967, and the regulations made thereunder. The latter piece of legislation was introduced when the Government adopted arrangements agreed to by representatives of employers, unions and the Government in the National Stevedoring Industry Conference set up in 1965 under the chairmanship of A. E. Woodward Q.C. The Stevedoring Industry Charge Act and Charge Assessment Act are machinery measures administered by the Taxation Commissioner and exist for the purposes of financing the administrative arrangements applying in the industry. 
The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority 
The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority was established in  1956  and replaced the Australian Stevedoring Industry Board. Since the introduction of the national conference scheme of employment in  1967,  the Authority has had considerably reduced responsibilities in the industry. For the performance of its functions, the Authority is empowered to make orders having the force of law. The Authority's expenditure is financed by the stevedoring industry charge which is levied on man hours worked by registered waterside workers and paid by employers to the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation. Until  1970,  the powers and functions of the Authority were vested in a chairman, and two other members, one of whom was to be experienced in industrial affairs by reason of having been an employer in an industry or having been otherwise associated with management in industry; and the other experienced in industrial affairs by reason of having been associated with trade union affairs. In  1970,  this Board was replaced by a single director. 
The Waterside Workers Federation 
The most significant union in the industry is the Waterside Workers Federation, whose members provide the bulk of the manpower for stevedoring operations. At  30  June  1975  the number of waterside workers registered, in accordance with the legislation regulating the industry, was  13 375.  Taking into account other categories of employees in the industry the total number employed is in the vicinity of  20 000. 
The National Conference Scheme 
Until  1967  the almost exclusively casual nature of waterside employment resulted in a situation whereby there was almost a complete absence of the employer-employee relationship which existed in most other industries. Between  1914,  when the first federal award covering waterside employment was made, and  1967,  industrial relationships in the industry proceeded by means of continuous confrontation with the relative strengths of the parties being determined by the prevailing economic situation. In  1965  the Government set up the National Stevedoring Industry Conference under the chairmanship of  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C., with the objective of achieving a long term improvement in conditions in the stevedoring industry. Participants were the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, the Waterside Workers Federation, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and the Department of Labour and National Service. 
Following meetings in  1965  and  1966,  the Conference reached agreement, in April  1967.  The main proposals were: 
Casual employment to be replaced by a system of permanent employment on a weekly hire in the major ports. The bulk of these permanent employees were to be employed directly by the individual stevedoring companies 'operational labour'- and the remainder by a representative employer holding company, Stevedoring Employers of Australia Ltd. This labour- 'holding company' or 'pool' labour- was to be allocated on a daily basis to operational stevedores to meet labour shortages as required. 
The introduction of pension and past service benefit schemes. 
Arrangements for coping with anticipated redundancies. 
New disciplinary procedures for weekly hire employees. 
Strengthening the role of industrial relations committees for dealing with potential and actual industrial disputes. 
A reduction in the functions of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in permanent employment ports. 
The agreement embodied in the Conference report was referred back to the parties for approval on the basis that it was a package and was eventually endorsed on that basis by all concerned including the Government. In November  1967  the Government introduced enabling legislation to permit the scheme to operate on a trial basis until  30  June  1970.  The end of casual employment was regarded as a major industrial breakthrough. It was expected that permanent employment would provide an opportunity for the development of direct employer-employee relationships which would significantly improve relations within the industry. 
The National Conference continued to operate until  1970.  In that year it was reconstructed and given legislative recognition as the Stevedoring Industry Council. From  1967  until  1972,  the Conference/Council was chaired by  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C. Since  1972,  the Council  Chairman  has been  Mr. R.  M. Northrop, Q.C, now  Mr Justice  Northrop. It was initially intended that the National Conference scheme should have a trial period of  2V4  years. However, practical difficulties were found with the scheme's operation and aspects of it were revised or renegotiated. These modifications and departures delayed final agreement on permanent arrangements for the industry. Additionally, the continued impact of technological change has made the industry's future uncertain. As a result, it became necessary to extend the life of the trial period on several occasions. The temporary legislation governing the scheme is currently due to expire on 30 June 1976. It is recalled that the National Conference began negotiations against a background of many years of intense industrial unrest and continuous confrontation. The National Conference in fact represented the first successful attempt at the national level at having the major industrial parties in the industry engage in discussions which led to achieving an essential first step in breaking with the past. This prepared the industry for the major technological developments of the late 1960s and beyond and allowed these changes to occur without the industrial dislocation which occurred in similar situations overseas. 
Recent Developments 
As indicated the National Conference scheme of employment envisaged that the industry would move towards a situation where normal employer-employee relationships would exist. Since the introduction of the Conference scheme arrangements, embodied as they were in legislation of a temporary nature, consideration has been given as to the form that future or more permanent arrangements should take. It will be recalled that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when Minister for Labor gave consideration to a proposal whereby the operations of the industry would be carried out by the Government; thus in effect nationalising the industry. The Labor Government did not proceed with this approach and late in 1975 the then Minister,  Senator James  McClelland, requested  Mr R.  M. Northrop Q.C., as he then was, to report on the views of the parties to the industry 'as to what they see as the problems associated with the existing arrangements and for the action they consider appropriate for the Government to take as to future arrangements'.  Mr Justice  Northrop has now reported to me and I have consulted with the principal parties to the industry on the details of their submissions. 
In its consideration of this whole question the Government has been mindful that the direct Government involvement in the industry has diminished sharply since 1967 and that no part of the industry finds the existing arrangements acceptable. In the light of the views that have emerged from the Northrop inquiry there are really only 2 courses the Government can consider, that is, to further encourage the trend that has developed since 1967 or to reverse that trend by initiating greater Government involvement. It has been the Government's concern to ensure that the industry should be as efficient as possible and to operate in such a way that the wider community interests are fully recognised. Having examined all material available concerning the future arrangements for the stevedoring industry, including the position statement prepared by  Mr Justice  Northrop, and having discussed this statement with major interests in the industry, the Government is now able to indicate the course of action it considers appropriate. In doing so the following observations are made: 
Existing Problems in the Industry 
The Government notes that in paragraph 54 of his statement  Mr Justice  Northrop identifies the problems arising under the existing arrangements as being: 
The inflexibility of the size of the labour force- the redundancy problem and the difficulty of reducing effectively the size of the workforce as well as maintaining a skilled work force not composed entirely of the more elederly workers, as well as the financial security of the waterside worker. 
The method of allocation of labour between operational employers and; Stevedoring Employers of Australia Ltd. resulting in the incurring of 'locked up' idle time. 
The method of funding the industry as contained in the existing legislation, particularly the basis of the charge being on man-hours rather than on tonnage handled and delays in varying the rate of the charge. 
The introduction of restrictive practices such as equalisation of earnings and of idle time between labour at a port. 
The lack of effective dispute settlement procedures and of discipline. 
The continued high incidence of strikes and unauthorised stoppages in the industry. 
The deficiencies that those involved in the industry claim to exist are of concern to the Government because they all add to the industry's costs and because the burden of those increased costs falls to the community. 
Government's attitude 
Those involved in the industry have put before the Government 2 broad alternatives: 
Restructuring of the industry involving some form of Government control and/or participation; 
Progressive withdrawal of the Government from its present statutory role in the industry. 
The Government has also explored other alternatives. The preponderance of those who suggested increased Government involvement in the industry support the creation of a statutory body to employ all waterside workers and possibly clerks and foremen stevedores as a pool system and to hire out these people to operational companies. The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority put forward detailed submissions as to the powers and operation of such a body. 
For a Government to take control of an industry's workforce would be an unprecedented step. It means in effect denying to both employees and employers the right to the normal relationships that are found in other industries. It would take from the employers the right to control and direct their employees to the ends that their commercial endeavours require. At the same time it would take from the employee an entitlement to see his contribution as part of the operational concern. It would be an extraordinary step to take but one which the Government does not set aside lightly. The Government however does not believe that such a course of action would be timely or appropriate. The Government acknowledges that this industry has not been the same as other industries. The Government believes that now everything should be done to ensure that this industry moves toward a situation where the relationships in the industry are as normal as possible and that employers and employees within the industry accept the same restraints and responsibilities required of other industries. That is to say that the Government's central concern is to ensure that the community interests are fully taken into account. There is a clear need to ensure that the interests of user groups are protected. This goes to the heart of the question of restraints on costs and hence restraints upon the levels of wages and conditions in the industry. 
Matters for Consideration by Parties in the Industry 
It is therefore proposed that in the ensuing months the Government will consult with those involved in the industry as to how they propose to develop a suitable framework within which solutions can be provided to major industry problems. In particular the Government believes the following are essential considerations: Continued efforts to reduce the existing size of the workforce. I consider this aspect of fundamental importance. Earlier this year I approached the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to secure for the Authority access to funds to enable redundancy payments to be made to waterside workers to ensure that those wishing to leave the industry were free to do so. I am advised that already more than 2 SO waterside workers have cancelled their registrations under these arrangements and more are likely to do so. 
I think from memory they work out at approximately $10,000 per worker. Another essential consideration is the making of satisfactory arrangements for recruitment and redundancy of waterside workers to cope with the fluctuating requirements as to the size of the workforce. By way of explanation I would point out that the inflexibility of the size of the workforce has been a problem mitigating against the efficiency of the industry. What is required is a means of effectively dealing with the peaks and troughs of labour demand. I would see the development of arrangements whereby the base labour force at any port can be added to by workers drawn from a supplementary force as the need arises, as an essential means of overcoming the problem. I recognise that the maintenance of efficient labour forces is of particular importance in smaller ports. The position regarding regional interests associated with the smaller ports has to be protected and the needs of these areas cannot be submerged in the interests of the major ports. In this I am indicating that the Government looks with special concern at this sector of the stevedoring industry. 
Other essential considerations are: Evidence of an adequate method of allocation of labour. It is expected that labour availability will be such that stevedoring operators will be able to have access to an adequate labour supply; means of securing improved industrial relations and methods for the settlement of disputes. Satisfac-^tory consultative procedures to enable effective consideration of the industry problems in these.* areas would need to be developed; arrangements should be settled to allow user interests such as the Australian Shippers Council and other relevant bodies such as the Australian Port and Marine Association to have an effective voice on industry matters as part of the consultative procedures; satisfactory funding arrangements having regard to the existing deficit and future commitments. It has been suggested in some quarters that the accumulated deficit in the ASIA accounts should be covered by the Government providing funds from Consolidated Revenue. The Government could not agree to this- rather it is the responsibility of the industry. The Government has noted suggestions made that the industry would seek some temporary assistance towards meeting this problem and this is a matter I would be prepared to examine with industry interests. 
Staff of Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority 
The position regarding the staff of the ASIA is of particular concern to me. When meeting with the Federated Clerks Union, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, and the Professional Officers Association earlier this year, they all referred to what they saw as the special position of these staff in that their future had been uncertain for some time; that if the Authority were not to continue then special arrangements should be made for the staff. As well they expected that the earliest possible consultation would take place concerning decisions as to the future of the staff. 
I have already forewarned the Director of the Authority, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the relevant unions of the course the Government intends to adopt and I have outlined the steps that will be taken as to the future of the staff. These include: Application to them of the Government program dealing with assistance to redundant employees in Commonwealth departments and agencies and including discussions with both employers and unions as to the totality of the arrangements to apply; a special section of the Department will be devoted to co-ordinating the operations of the Commonwealth Employment Service in an exercise designed to provide maximum assistance aimed at locating the staff concerned in suitable alternative employment; and raising with employers in the industry the steps that they might take to offer to staff presently employed by the Authority new employment opportunities. 
The Government is mindful of the role played by the ASIA and the contribution made by the staff of the Authority. It is the Government's view that it is now time to bring to an end its direct regulatory involvement in this industry. Rather than turning to the alternative of the Government taking on to its payroll an additional 20 000 employees and assuming a position where it imposes its will so directly upon the industry, we would prefer to see the industry operating efficiently and responsibly of its own will. 
Other Aspects 
I have indicated, however, that the Government will require the clearest indication from the industry in respect of the considerations I have set down. However, as the costs associated with this industry have been a source of central concern to successive governments, I have consulted with my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and expressed the view that in the light of the impact costs in this industry have on all sections of the community it is proper that such costs should come under surveillance to ensure that prices set are fair both to the supplier and the consumer. There does seem to be a need for continuing monitoring of costs in this industry to identify and highlight such features as: Reasons for cost increases, profitability, efficiency and productivity, ability to generate funds for expansion, level of profits, likely flow-on effects of cost increases and public interest considerations. 
I am aware that these and other elements are considered relevant in inquiries held by the Prices Justification Tribunal when examining applications for increased prices. It would therefore seem appropriate that stevedoring companies seeking to increase the prices they charge should do so in the full light of examinations of this nature. The Government is aware of a number of applications from stevedoring companies to the Prices Justification Tribunal which are currently under examination. As well, the Government considers that there should be supervision of any unreasonable market power in all industries and thus the stevedoring industry is no exception. The Government notes that the Trade Practices Commission is examining various applications by stevedoring companies relating to methods of fixing charges associated with wharf handling etc. of inward and outward cargoes. 
Conclusion 
As is pointed out in the detailed position statement prepared by  Mr Justice  Northrop, no submission made to him favoured the retention of the existing arrangements but with the temporary legislation amended on a permanent basis. For the Government to impose itself on the industry to the extent of becoming the direct employer of those working in the industry would be inappropriate, unwarranted and would not be a forward step. Nor would it bring a normal employer-employee relationship. It would create a situation where the Government would be employing workers but would have no responsibility for the operations on which they were engaged while the companies carrying out those operations would have no control of the labour. This would be a most abnormal arrangement. It is the Government's view that it is logical and progressive to encourage normal employeremployee relationships in this industry and that in doing so the employers and employees must accept the restraints and responsibilities inherent in such a situation. 
Therefore it is proposed that to allow this industry to be placed on a basis which is as normal as possible the following steps are to be taken: The existing temporary legislation is to be continued until 31 December 1976; the ASIA is to continue its existing operations until 31 December 1976; arrangements will be put in hand to assist the staff of the ASIA as outlined earlier; the Stevedoring Industry Council, under the Chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Northrop, is to continue until 3 1 December 1976; the employers and the Waterside Workers Federation will be asked to indicate the steps being taken to reduce the existing size of the workforce; the employers and the Waterside Workers Federation will be required to submit for my consideration details of the arrangement proposed to deal with recruitment, redundancy and means of coping with the fluctuating labour requirements of the industry; the employers and the Waterside Workers Federation will be asked to evidence means of securing adequate labour allocation arrangements; satisfactory arrangements have to be determined concerning funding arrangements for the industry; proposed consultative machinery should provide details concerning effective representation of user interests, for example, the Australian Shippers Council and other relevant bodies such as the Australian Ports and Marine Association. 
The Government in the months ahead will be looking to those involved in the industry to develop a satisfactory framework within which those matters I have mentioned and others that have troubled this industry will be faced in a positive and responsible manner. In this speech I have sought to outline the Government's aims, but it is clearly the responsibility of those who would seek to be free of the legislative and regulatory requirements imposed for historical reasons in this industry to demonstrate their capacity to act with reason and restraint and with the community interests to the fore. This speech is not the Government's final word on the future of the industry, but I have sought to give a clear indication of the way the Government believes the industry should develop. The speech is therefore designed to provide the outline within which detailed plans can be developed over the next 6 months for implementation of the arrangements I am foreshadowing. The Government will be strengthened in what it considers to be the normal, progressive and responsible course of action by the demonstrated attitudes of those in the industry during the months ahead. 
Finally, I must say that it is recognised that in recent years direct government involvement in the industry has centred on its limited and diminished regulatory role. Now it considers that, in the light of the trend of recent years, that role is no longer necessary. This is not to say, however, that it will no longer give attention to and seek to influence events and attitudes in relation to those matters affecting the industry which give greatest concern to the community generally. But for these matters to be given government attention does not require the continued presence of a government regulatory agency. To enable what I have put forward to be implemented it is necessary to extend the operation of the Act. Before asking honourable members to agree to such a course I believe they and everyone concerned with the industry and the community generally should have a clear indication of the Government's intentions. It is for this reason that I have set out those intentions in such detail. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1975 from 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1976. The Act provides for the imposition and collection by the Commissioner of Taxation of a levy upon registered employers of waterside workers. The charge is based on the number of hours worked by waterside workers and its proceeds are used by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to meet its statutory commitments. The Act defines the maximum rates of charge and the actual rates are prescribed by regulation. The most important of the rates is that payable in respect of registered waterside workers employed on weekly hire at permanent or continuous ports; that is, for approximately 85 per cent of the work force. This rate is presently $4 per man hour, which is the maximum defined by the Act. It is not proposed to increase the rate of charge. The amendments being made by this Bill are in consequence of the proposal to extend until 31 December 1976 the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-1974 and will provide moneys for the continuation of financial arrangements in the industry during the proposed extended period of operation of the provisions of that Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I will be happy to seek time from the Leader of the House to enable an adequate debate to take place. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
Honourable members will recall that it is part of the Government's clear policy that it will consult with national employer and union organisations before the introduction of any industrial legislation. I fulfilled that obligation in relation to our current proposals on S May when I had discussions with representatives of both employers and the union movement. At those discussions I outlined proposals that the Government had in mind, including proposals for the election of officers to organisations. As a result of the views that were put by both sides at those discussions I have taken proposals to Cabinet and we have been considering, consistent with our basic objective of ensuring that every member of an organisation should have an adequate opportunity to vote without intimidation for those persons that he or she wishes to represent them, whether our objective could be met while having in mind the very substantial objections which were put to us by the union movement on 5 May. As a result of these considerations we believe that we can do this. 
We propose to introduce legislation which will provide for secret postal ballots in all organisations, and of course this already is the case in a number of unions and employer bodies. What I have said underlines the Government's commitment to genuine and constructive consultations and a willingness to be flexible, to listen to different points of view consistent with our basic objectives. I would expect a positive response from both the union movement and the employers to the Prime Minister's proposals put last night for discussions on the economy including the question of wages policy and that a similar constructive and flexible approach will be shown by the representatives of unions and employers who we trust will take advantage of that invitation and attend discussions in the near future. 
I shall take up with my colleague the point that the Leader of the Opposition has raised, but I cannot help feeling that he is taking an economy campaign to extreme lengths when he is apparently not willing to contribute 50c to the national revenue to find out the answer to his question. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) As far as can be ascertained- U.S.A., Canada, West Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Italy, Austria, France and the United Kingdom. 
The formulae for such funding in respect of the countries listed in ( 1 ) above are as follows: 
United States of America 
The Federal Election Campaign Act Amendments of 1974 provided for optional public financing of presidential general election campaigns and nominating conventions and established federal matching grants to cover up to 45 per cent of the cost of presidential primary campaigns, as follows: 
Presidential general elections-Optional public financing.  Major party  candidates automatically qualify for full funding before the campaign. Minor party and independent candidates are eligible to receive a proportion of full funding based on past or current votes received. If a candidate opts for full public funding, no private contributions to that candidate are permitted. 
Presidential nominating conventions- Optional publicfunding.  Major parties  automatically qualify. Minor parties are eligible for lesser amounts based on their proportion of votes received in a past or current election. 
Presidential primaries- Candidates become eligible for matching public funds of up to US$5.0m per candidate, after they meet fund-raising requirements of US$100,000. This amount must be raised in amounts of at least US$5,000 in each of 20 or more States. Only first US$250 of individual private contributions would be matched. The candidates of any one party are eligible to receive in aggregate no more than 45 per cent of the total amount available in federal money. No single candidate may receive more than 25 per cent of the total matching grant available. Only private gifts raised after 1 January 1975 may qualify for matching funds in respect of the 1976 election. No matching funds payments were to be made before January 1976. (All federal money for public funding of campaigns comes from the Presidential Election Campaign Fund. Funds received from the federal income tax 'dollar check-off" are automatically appropriated to the fund). (US$1. 00 = $A0.82 as at 30 March 1976). 
Canada 
Under the Election Expenses Act of 1974 candidates who are elected or who have received 1 5 per cent or more of the popular vote, and who have provided all information required by the Act are entitled to reimbursement as follows- 
cost of postage of a first-class mailing to every voter on the preliminary voters list; 
Can$0.08 for each of the first 25 000 voters on the preliminary list and Can$0.06 for each additional voter; 
up to Can$250 to assist in payment of auditor required by the Act; 
in certain large ridings, the actual value of a candidate's travelling expenses, obtained by multiplying It by the number of square miles in that electoral district or Can$3,000, which ever is the lesser. (Can$1.00 = $A0.803 as at 30 March 1976). 
West Germany 
Financial support from public funds was regularised and given its present form by the Parties Law of 1966. Subsidies from public funds now constitute, on average, one-third of the budget of the political parties in the Federal Republic of Germany. Originally, subsidy was fixed at 2.50 DM per voter for all parties who polled at least 2.5 per cent of total vote in the previous Federal election. In a later decision, the Federal Constitutional Court reduced to 0.5 per cent the percentage of votes needed to qualify for subsidy, and in early 1974 the subsidy itself was raised to 3.50 DM for each vote polled. The subsidy is distributed among parties according to the number of votes polled, and is distributed at the rate of 10 per cent in the first year after the election, IS per cent in the second year, 35 per cent in the third year and the remaining 40 per cent immediately after the general elections. (1.00DM = SA0.317 as at 30 March 1976). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply by the then Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  to Question on Notice No. 5406  (Hansard,  17 August 1972, pages 442-443), which sets out the position as at 1972. 
The following information in respect of Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and the U.S.A. indicates relevant developments in English-speaking countries since 1972. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by F. E. Emery and C. Phillips entitled  Living at Work. 
For the information of honourable members I present the fourth report of the Royal Commission on 
Petroleum entitled  The Marketing and Pricing of Petroleum Products in Australia. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Superannuation Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter. of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The intake for each Department during each of the last 5 years and the planned intake for 1975-76 is set out in the following table. 
What projects in the areas of these councils and committees have (a) received or (b) been promised assistance from the Australian Assistance Plan. 
What were the amounts of assistance, and the dates of approval for each council, committee and project. 
I was not aware of the particular project in the honourable gentleman's electorate that he mentioned. It sounds to me a worthwhile self-help scheme and I would be pleased to arrange for officers of my Department to contact the people running the project and give such assistance as we can. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a step in the implementation of the Government's federalism policy. Essentially, its purposes are threefold: Firstly, to remove from the Grants Commission Act 1973-1975 those references to assistance for local government which are no longer appropriate under the federalism policy; secondly, to make specific provision for the Commission to advise the Government on matters relating to assistance to local government under the new policy; and thirdly, to remove the obligation presently upon the Grants Commission to report on applications by local governing bodies referred to it in accordance with the provisions of the existing Act. 
The Bill leaves unchanged the right, which the less populous States have enjoyed for 40 years, to apply for supplementary financial assistance. The Government's federalism policy provides a framework for a co-operative partnership between all 3 levels of government- Federal, State and local- to ensure effective and responsible government with maximum community involvement. Local government will receive assistance under the new tax sharing arrangements as from the 1976-77 financial year. Under these arrangements a fixed percentage of personal income tax will be earmarked for distribution through the States to local government to provide  per capita  grants, possibly weighted, to all local government bodies and an equalisation or 'topping-up' grant to be distributed through State Grants Commissions. The proposed arrangements will be a major advance in Federal-State-local government financial relations. They ensure that local government will have a guaranteed and substantially predictable addition to its financial resources to meet its responsibilities. Local government will have access to these untied funds without the need to apply to Canberra for assistance or to form artificial regional groupings in order to qualify for assistance. The needs of less populated areas and of municipalities and shires with special disabilities will be protected. Assistance to all local government authorities will be provided. No longer will some councils be excluded from sharing in the monies provided for local government purposes; no longer will local government have to approach the Federal Government cap in hand. 
Considerable progress has been made in reaching agreement with the States on the principles and details of the new arrangements. Some matters pertaining to the new arrangements have been referred to the Grants Commission for advice and it is expected that this advice together with the States' views will be discussed at the next Premiers Conference in June. It is also expected that a statement outlining details of the new arrangements, and how local government is to participate in them, will be released following that Conference. The precise role that the Grants Commission will play in the implementation of the Government's new federalism policy has yet to be finally determined. While the Commission will continue to exercise its traditional role in relation to the less populous States, its role in relation to local government finances will be considerably modified. The proposed amendments to the Bill reflect this modified role. 
I turn now to the detail of the Bill. Clauses 3 and 6 relate to the change in the title of the Commission from Grants Commission to Commonwealth Grants Commission, to avoid confusion with State Grants Commissions. Clauses 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 1 1, 12, 13 and 15 have the effect of deleting references which, under the new federalism policy, no longer have application. Clause 8 repeals sections 17 and 18 and substitutes a new section 17 which provides for the Minister to refer to the Commission matters relating to the provision of assistance to the States for local government purposes, as distinct from matters relating to the provision of other assistance to the States. It also defines 'assistance to a State for local government purposes' in such a way as to comprehend the unincorporated areas in some States where local government-type services are provided by the State government. Clause 16 revokes reverences made to the Commission between October 1975 and March 1976 but permits the Commission to have regard to information gathered in connection with these references. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  12.58  to  2.15  p.m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Before I explain the Bill I would like to make some general comments. This is the first Bill introduced by the Government to give effect to aspects of the Government's industrial relations policies and its electoral commitments in this area. The Government is committed to genuine consultations with employers and trade unions on its industrial legislation. I have consulted with  the peak trade union organisations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Associations and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, and the National Employers Policy Committee, representing the employers, on the Government's proposals. As honourable members will know, there were detailed discussions here in Canberra on 5 May. 
In keeping with its constructive approach, the Government has been prepared to recognise the merits of arguments put to it, and to make substantial modifications to its legislative proposals, where this has been possible, consistent with maintaining the Government's basic policy objectives. 
I turn now to the Bill itself. The proposals which it incorporates have the following purposes: Firstly, to rectify weaknesses in the Act regarding representation by the Minister of the public interest, in relation to appeals and references; secondly, to extend the present requirement that in Full Bench proceedings, the Commission must have regard to the state of the economy and the likely effect of any award made, to include specifically the level of employment and inflation; thirdly, to make sure that every member of a union or employer organisation has a real opportunity to choose, without intimidation, who should conduct the affairs of the organisation; fourthly, to limit the term of office of office bearers of organisation to a maximum of 4 years; and finally, to provide for the appointment of an additional judge of the Industrial Court. 
Appeals and References in the Public Interest 
The Government has the right to intervene in the public interest in national wage and other cases, including appeals the references, once they come before Full Benches. However, it is in the anomalous position that it does not have the opportunity to express a view as to whether there should in fact be an appeal or reference to a Full Bench in the public interest. Clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill remedy this omission. It will of course still be for the Commission to decide whether to hear an appeal or reference in the public interest. The Government will be in no different position from any party in this regard. 
The Government had also proposed that it should be a ground of appeal that an award is not in accord with decisions of principles by a Full Bench. While accepting that such decisions should be observed and applied by individual members of the tribunals, whether Commonwealth or State, the employers expressed concern about the problems that might arise because there is no one Full Bench. The Government has concluded that the proposal the I have already explained, relating to appeals and references, would be adequate. Similar provisions for appeals and references are to apply within the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal jurisdiction as a result of clauses 9 and 10. 
The State of the Economy 
I do not need to emphasise the importance of the wage fixing principles enunciated by the Commission in relation to the general economy. They are all the more significant in the context of the present levels of inflation and unemployment. The Act already requires a Full Bench of the Commission to have regard to the state of the national economy and the likely effects of any award that might be made. However, the Government has in clause 6 of the Bill widened this provision to require Full Benches to take account specifically of the likely effects on the level of employment and on inflation. This change does not in any way erode the authority of the Commission, or change the character of its functioning. 
It does, however, recognise-as recent experience has highlighted- the nature of the nexus between the rate of increase in labour costs, especially wages, unemployment and inflation. I do not need to stress the importance of this in the overall interests of the Australian community. I would have thought that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  might have expressed some interest in the Australian community. 
in reply- The Opposition spokesman who led for the Australian Labor Party in this debate, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  talked at one stage about colossal failures. I shall be charitable. I shall admit that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and members of the Australian Labor Party are fully qualified to talk about colossal failures. Their recent record indeed proves that that is about the only subject about which they know anything. That leads me to the fact that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spent most of his speech defending the Labor Party's concept of regionalism. That amounted to trying to impose a new level of government. He alleged that the States more and more were coming to see the merits of the system. Of course the point is that the States had no choice. They had to like it or lump it. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also said that the majority opinion of local government supports the Labor concept of regionalism. All 1 can say is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition must have been talking to different representatives of local government from those to whom I have talked over the last few years. 
The fact is that the only people who are sorry to see the demise of the Labor Party's regionalism are the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and members of his Party, certainly not local government which will be getting $140m this year compared with $56m the year before last and $80m last year- not $230m as I heard alleged by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition tonight. I remind him that that figure included a large amount- I think from memory something like $135m- under the Regional Employment Development scheme which the Labor Government made a hopeless mess of and which it has fallen to my lot to try to clean up. 
Under the new proposals that have been outlined in this Bill there will be tax sharing arrangements. Local government will get a fixed share of the personal income tax collections. Unlike the lucky dip policy of the Labor Party, all local government will get some assistance. On top of that I remind the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  that areas of low population or municipalities or shires with special disabilities will be protected by the addition of top up grants through the States grants commissions. That was spelt out with great skill and clarity by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  I thank them for their contributions to the debate. 
This Bill ushers in a most far reaching and imaginative restructuring of the financing of government in Australia, particularly local government. It is the most imaginative proposal since Federation. It has been widely acclaimed by all sections of the Australian community. It is a major step forward to achieving a true federal system for Australia and time will prove that not only will local government be better off under the new system but also responsibility will be where it should be, close to the people who are close to the problems. That will be the experience as the new federalism policy of this government, of which this Bill is a most important part, comes into operation over the next few years. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
This does not relate to matters within the scope of my portfolio. 
No. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Prime Minister has not ordered any additional equipment to be fitted to motor vehicles used by him or his wife. 
Additional equipment which has been fitted to ministerial cars following requests by Ministers is listed below: 
The Minister for Administative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Purchases of carpets for Austalian Government requirements within Australia are arranged by the Department of Construction. The figures, related to financial years (latest year incomplete), are: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the fallowing answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (4): The information sought, as at 30 April 1 976, is set out in Table 1 below. 
In view of the honourable member's interest in this matter, I am also providing comparable information in respect of the former Government in Table 2 below. 
All costs incurred by overseas posts in respect of the more recent visits may not yet be available and expenditure is as at 30 April 1976. Some Ministers have travelled by V.I.P. aircraft; however, the costs of maintaining these aircraft recurs irrespective of whether they are used by Ministers travelling overseas. Details of people travelling on V.I.P. flights are tabled in the Parliament from time to time, the most recent being on 18 May. 
Numbers given for people accompanying each Minister are in respect of family and personal staff only. Apart from my own officers, I do not have details of departmental officers who may have accompanied Ministers and whose costs are borne by individual Ministers ' departments. 
My colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services, yesterday tabled in the Senate the final report of the Commission of Inquiry into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions. I shall table a copy in this House today. The Royal Commission was established, as honourable members will remember, in September 1974 to investigate certain payments to maritime unions and the investigation was conducted by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. The significant findings of the Royal Commission include one that indemnity payments were made to maritime unions and another that some of the money paid should be refunded, and it was recommended that payments made by one company should be paid to a charity. Another point made was that the payments were not in support of Australian Council of Trade Unions policy. Indeed the Commission made some criticism of the ACTU for an apparent unwillingness to make submissions to the Commission. Some of the findings were of a very serious nature. For example, in some instances there was no clear indication of where the money paid was at the moment but some had been disbursed by way of testimonials, on payments for picnics, and as allowances to union officials, and other moneys were still in union funds. 
The recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Sweeney will involve my colleagues the Attorney-General and the Minister for Transport, as well as my own Department in regard particularly to accounting practices of unions and financial reports to union members. The Government is now examining the report and the recommendations. We will be considering what action should be taken and in due course my Department and the Departments of the Ministers I have mentioned will take action in relation to the recommendations made by  His  Honour. 
-No, the first statement by the honourable member is not correct. Like all other departments, my Department has been making a critical review of the work of the Department for some time. As a result, what is taking place is a shift in resources from some areas of the Department to other areas. Whereas some 105 positions have been withdrawn, 108 are substantively vacant in the Central Office. The allocation of those positions is going to areas of high priority, in the Government's view. This reallocation of resources was achieved by way of a review committee set up within the Department. Its recommendations were considered by the Permanent Head and myself, and the priorities decided on were in accord with the recommendations. 
In relation to the second part of the honourable member's question, the Government indicated some time ago that it disagreed strongly with the attitude taken by the previous Government of providing non-means tested allowances to NEAT students. We made it clear that under this Government the NEAT program would accurately reflect the needs of individuals without skills seeking to gain skills for which there was a demand in the market place. I am glad to say that entrants to the scheme now are reflecting more accurately what should have been the objectives of the scheme, which I think were outlined with some force by the honourable member for Hindmarsh some time ago when the scheme was being debated in this House. We believe that the budgetary allocation for next year will be sufficient to meet the requirements of those people seeking training for jobs which are in demand in the labour market place. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Commission of Inquiry into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions. Due to the limited number available at this time, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following Table A shows statistics of the average number of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service in New South Wales for each non-metropolitan Employment Office area and for the metropolitan area as a whole in each quarter of 1975 and in 1976 to date. 
b) The only statistics available during 1 975 and to date in 1976 on persons receiving Unemployment Benefit by age and region are shown in Table B. It should be noted that these figures are not comparable with the CES series because of differences between the boundaries of regions as defined by the Department of Social Security and of those used by the Commonwealth Employment Service. More up to date figures of the number of Unemployment Benefit recipients by sex, but not by age, are published for each CES employment district in my Department's Monthly Review of the Employment Situation. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Commission of Inquiry into land tenures. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will be aware that on 29 April the House agreed to a motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the establishment of an expenditure committee of that House. The Expenditure Committee is an important part of the Government's policy of strengthening the parliamentary system to enable it to supervise adequately and review government administration. We consider that the Expenditure Committee will allow a greater in-depth examination of public expenditure than that provided by the Senate Estimates Committees and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. There is, however, an obvious need for close liaison between these committees. It is for this purpose that I introduce this Bill to amend the Public Accounts Committee Act- to enable the  Chairman  of the Expenditure Committee to be an  ex-officio  member of the Public Accounts Committee. It is also proposed that the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee be an  exofficio  member of the Expenditure Committee, but this of course does not need an amendment of the Act. The Bill also proposes to make several formal amendments to the Act in Accordance with current drafting procedures. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I require the debate to be extended. Earlier in this adjournment debate the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  raised an issue relating to the cost to unions of serving logs of claims on respondents to awards. The honourable member suggested that these costs were so high that unions endeavoured to incur the costs as seldom as possible and therefore had to pitch their claims a long way ahead into the future, trying to gauge what working conditions and wages might be at some considerable time into the future. He said that this technique led them to make very large demands which at the time they were made probably appeared unrealistic and indeed engendered unrealistic expectations in the minds of the members of those organisations. 
The honourable member has suggested that perhaps another way could be found to serve logs of claims which would avoid this cost, avoid the necessity for unions to make such a large demand at any one time and so reduce the expectations in the minds of union members. As I understand him he suggested that logs of claims might be served by way of substitute service by being published in the Commonwealth  Gazette,  that because this would be a great deal cheaper unions would be able to serve logs of claims without incurring those huge costs, that they would be willing to do it more often and would therefore moderate the sorts of claims that were made. It is an interesting suggestion. I am not able at the moment to say whether any difficulties are involved but I will arrange for a detailed investigation to be made of the proposals that the honourable member has outlined. 
-The report of the Commission of Inquiry into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions, which was chaired by  Mr Justice  Sweeney, was tabled recently in both the Senate and this place. I answered a question on it the other day. I said that the report and the recommendations by  Mr Justice  Sweeney were under active consideration by the Government- by my Department, by the Department of the AttorneyGeneral and by the Department administered by my colleague the Minister for Transport. When we have had a chance to consider fully the legal implications for the Transport portfolio and for the portfolio of Employment and Industrial Relations of the issues arising out of the Sweeney report, the Government will be bringing forward proposals to deal with the problems that have been outlined. 
-Yes, I have heard the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in relation to the national wage case. It was issued at approximately 10.30 a.m. The decision is to adjust wages by 3 per cent- that is, the amount of the consumer price index increase in the March quarter- up to $125 a week. Thereafter, a flat rate of $3.80 is to be applied. I believe that that is a sensible decision. It offers a real hope for containing costs in Australia while maintaining the purchasing power of the less well paid members of our community. The Commission, in its decision, recognised that full indexation would leave inflation at a rate of about 13 per cent, with the prospect of economic stagnation and continued rates of high unemployment. As the Australian Council of Trade Unions acknowledged in its case, departure from full indexation could be warranted in exceptional and compelling circumstances. The Commission considered that the present situation does constitute exceptional and compelling circumstances. It has taken a responsible attitude. It is up to all sections of the Australian community to back that decision in their own interests and those of Australia's economic recovery. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Grants Commission special report on financial assistance for local government. Due to the limited number available at this time, reference copies of the report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. Further copies are expected to be available within the next few days. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts paid for air travel for the Labor Group of the former Department of Labor and Immigration during 1973-74 and 1974-75 were: 
These figures do not include payments made by the Attorney-General's Department for travel undertaken by members of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Attorney-General's Department provided the administrative support for the Commission up to 30 June 1975 from which date my Department assumed responsibility. The Attorney-General's Department has indicated that it is unable to isolate costs for the Commission for 1 973-74 and 1 974-75 as, during that period, these costs were combined with those for the Australian Industrial Court 
-The honourable member for Hindmarsh is quite correct in saying that the decision of the Full Bench on the national wage case last week followed closely the submissions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in 1974. Indeed, I think these were not dissimilar to propositions that the honourable member himself advanced when his Party was in government and which, had they been accepted at that time, might have had a further moderating effect on wages during the intervening period. The Government notes that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission did not accept our submission in relation to 6-monthly hearings. The hearings will be quarterly, and the principles that the Commission applied in the April 1975 decision will continue to apply- that is, the appropriateness of adjusting wages for movements in the consumer price index and, if so, to what extent, they should be adjusted, will be looked at by the Commission in the light of circumstances at the time. Equally the Government will be making its submissions to the Commission in the light of circumstances at the time. 
In relation to the last point raised by the honourable member, that is, the automatic application of the CPI, the Commission, in its original decision, put forward its reasons for not accepting that proposition. The Commission was very cautious in accepting the indexation proposals. One of the danger signals it saw was an automatic application of the CPI. I note that the Commission has seen fit not to alter its principles in that respect, and from the Government's point of view we believe that that is a proper decision. We do not agree that adjustments should be automatic; neither does the Commission itself. Therefore we shall be putting our submissions in the light of circumstances at the time and judging at the time whether the CPI has been significantly influenced in specific instances, for example, by indirect taxes, we shall be arguing for discounting on those grounds before the Commission on occasions when that may be appropriate. 
I move: 
At end of paragraph (a) omit 'and' and insert the following paragraph: (aa) by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), after the definition of "Organization", the following definition:  "Postal ballot" means a ballot for the purposes of which a ballot paper is to be sent by prepaid post to each person entitled to vote and facilities are to be provided for the return of the completed ballot paper by post by the voter without expense to him; '; ana'. 
The proposed definition in the amendment defines what is meant by postal ballot in clauses 12 (a) and 13 of the Bill. Clause 12 (a) proposes that a new paragraph be inserted in section 133(1) to require an association applying for registration to provide by its rules that every election for an office of a kind referred to in paragraphs (a), (aa), (b) and (c) of the definition of office in section 4(1) shall be by postal ballot. The specified officers are those with policy or management functions. Clause 13 provides that elections for the specified offices in organisations, that is employer or employee associations registered under the Acts, shall be by secret postal ballot. In relation to associations applying for registration, the effect of the amendment, taken in conjunction with section 133 ( 1 ) (d) (i) is that after the amendment becomes operative the association will not be registered unless its rules provide for postal ballots which comply with the definition and which will ensure the secrecy of the ballot. 
In relation to registered organisations, every election for an office specified in sub-section ( 1 ) of proposed section 133  AA  must be by postal ballot which complies with the definition. If an organisation's rules do not provide for postal ballot or provide for a postal ballot which does not comply with the definition, regulations may be made under proposed section 133  AA  (2) which will prescribe conditions which must be complied with to ensure both the secrecy of the ballot and that the postal ballot accords with the definition. 
A number of interesting comments have been made by various honourable members in debating this clause, some rather closer to the clause than others, perhaps. 
Even closer to the clause, as my friend suggests. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  made a suggestion that it might be appropriate to have a panel of unionists and employers experienced in industrial relations to look at draft legislation. I see a couple of practical difficulties in this suggestion which has a lot of attraction in it, of course, as a means of trying to get the bugs out of legislation before it reaches the Parliament. One difficulty is deciding on the method of selection of whom should be asked to give advice on such things. The second, of course, is the propriety in certain circumstances of people outside the Parliament having access to draft legislation. Those are 2 practical problems that I see. 
The honourable member also made a suggestion, as did the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  that a select committee be established to look into various aspects of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Government will not act on that suggestion at present, but as in all things our minds remain open in that area. The honourable member for 
Hotham also referred to the fact that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union has provision for a postal ballot. I know that he is well aware of what sort of postal ballot it is but it might be appropriate to explain that the postal ballot to which the honourable member was referring is in fact an absent vote for which a member can make application to vote postal, which is very different from the proposition we are putting forward in this legislation because, firstly, the member bears the cost himself, and secondly, he has to apply for the ballot paper. 
In his last contribution to this debate the honourable member also made the remark that the proclamation of this legislation could be 2 years away. I can assure the honourable member that that is not intended. We have said that we do not propose to proclaim the legislation in case valid points relating to it are brought up by the employers or union members at forthcoming talks we will be starting next week upon various aspects of the economy, wages policy and so on. They having been the legislation, we will remain willing to take on board suggestions at that time. There is certainly no intention not to proclaim the legislation  ad infinitum. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  brought up the question of the different wording in relation to prepaid post for sending out ballot papers and the completed ballot paper being sent back by post by the voter without expense to him. The reason for the difference is to give somewhat wider discretion to union officers in handling the return of ballot papers. In fact they will be able to stick stamps on envelopes and send them out with the ballot papers, but if they believe it suits their purpose better they will be able to make arrangements with the postal authorities to have a prepaid form of reply. That option is open to them. Its purpose was purely to give them a choice. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  referred to the fact that ballots were already being conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office under section 170 of the Act. That, of course, is true, but last year only 29 unions out of a total of some 150 registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act availed themselves of that opportunity to have their elections conducted at no cost to them. We hope that that number and percentage improves as time goes by. The honourable member for Hindmarsh raised a number of interesting points, including the technicalities of machinery for the deregistering of organisations. I will be interested to have a look in some detail at what he said in that respect. 
All speakers, I think, devoted some time in the debate on this clause to the question of the collegiate system of voting. I would ask your indulgence,  Mr Chairman,  because this particular issue was dealt with at some length and in some detail by the honourable member who spoke, to be permitted to reply to them now. As several speakers mentioned- I think the honourable member for Denison did so particularly- I said in my second reading speech to this Bill: 
The Government accepts in principle a form of collegiate voting, but the system adopted must be consistent with its policy of fullest participation by members. 
It is clear that the honourable member for Denison has some misgivings about what is proposed. Therefore I would like to make it quite clear to him that I indicated then, and I reiterate now, that the issue is a very complex one in respect of which we believe further detailed consideration is necessary. That consideration is proceeding as a matter of urgency. As the honourable member for Denison pointed out, as the Act now stands organisations which provide for collegiate voting are required to move to direct elections for full time officers by 13 November this year. I wish in inform honourable members that organisations need not move to give effect to that requirement by that date unless, of course, they wish to do so. It is the Government's intention to have enacted before that date legislation to give effect to the outcome of its current examination of this issue which I mentioned a moment ago. If the Government is not in a position to have amending legislation introduced before that date- that is, before 1 3 November-it will extend the time for requirement for such period as may be necessary to have the amendment passed. Of course, before any legislation is introduced it will be necessary for the Government, in accordance with the undertakings it has given already, to discuss its proposals with the peak employer and employee councils. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5- by leave- taken together. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in debating this clause mentioned at one state that he thought the indexation plateau which had been set by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission last week was so low that it introduced some inequities into the wage system. I remind the honourable member that the Commission's action in setting the plateau at average award rates in fact followed the Australian Council of Trade Unions submission of 1974. It is a lot of humbug for the ACTU to come out now and say that the Government's proposal is inequitable when it is what it put foward 2 years ago. The plateau is also in accord with what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has been proposing for some time. As I understand it, originally the honourable member proposed as a plateau the minimum wage and then moved to average weekly earnings. 
I remind the honourable member that in the latest decision handed down there has been greater flexibility given in dealing with anomalies that exist in very difficult cases such as the wool dispute which involved storemen and packers and disputes of that nature. 
What I would like to explain is that whilst the Bill gives the Minister the right to initiate appeals in terms of review proceedings under proposed new section 36A and the right to seek a reference of an industrial dispute, he will be in the same position as any other party as regards substantiating his case for review or reference. There is no difference in this respect between the proposals of the Labor Government and the proposals in the Bill. I am talking about the reported proposals of the previous Labor Government last year which I understand were not actually put through because, despite their economic good sense, the Labor Caucus threw them out. The proposals as they were published at that time were first of all to give the Minister the right of appeal; secondly to give the Minister the right to seek a reference- in fact the Labor Government went much further, I understand, and proposed to give the Minister the right to intervene in any proceedings- thirdly, to give the  President  the right to refer any matter to a full bench on his own motion, require single members of the Commission in certifying an agreement or in making an award by consent or arbitration to observe decisions and principles laid down by a full bench, and make the failure by a member of the Commission to comply with a decision or principle laid down by a full bench the ground of appeal, including by the Minister. 
-That is what the Labor Party was proposing last year. That is exactly what is said. 
I do not think I can go through it again. What I was setting forward for the benefit of the honourable member for Hindmarsh was that the proposals as published by the Labor Government last year in relation to powers of reference and appeal by Ministers went a great deal further in fact than the legislation which we have just introduced. 
-Yes, I understand that it knocked it out, as is not unusual in those circumstances. The purpose of these amendments is to enable the Minister in the public interest to assist the Commission to ensure that decisions are in accordance with full bench principles. It is particularly important that principles governing wage indexation are preserved for the benefit of employees and employers generally. 
The fact is that this Government is going to be vigilant in the public interest. It is not going to abdicate its responsibility as did the previous Government. Just because a settlement has been reached by the parties, it does not automatically mean that that settlement is in the public interest. Nobody but the Government can act to protect the public interest in these circumstances. We will act when we consider it is our duty to do so. 
I feel I have to reply to my colleague the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I just remind him that the Minister has always had the right to intervene in the public interest in matters before a full bench under section 3 1, that is, the section relating to standard hours of work and wage claims based on national economic grounds, long service leave and things of that nature and also under section 34 dealing with references and section 35 dealing with appeals. The Minister has always been represented in these sorts of proceedings by counsel, except on very odd occasions when he has been represented by an officer of the Aus.tralian Government service. This has also been the position where he has appeared by leave in proceedings before individual members of the Commission. The amendments concerning representation do no more than recognise the existing position and extend it to cases where the Minister is entitled to ask for a reference or a view. I just make this final further point: It is envisaged that the Minister will selectively exercise his right to initiate a reference or a view in the public interest. 
I have carefully noted the wording of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I would have to say that the Government is not convinced that his wording will achieve the objectives better than the wording which is in the Bill. However, as I foreshadowed earlier in this debate, amendments to the Act will be introduced during the Budget session. I undertake to have the honourable member's suggested amendment carefully considered in relation to proposals that the Government will be bringing forward at that time. 
 The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  alleged that the addition of 'employment' and 'inflation' to section 39 (2) is unnecessary and an insult to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. He further alleged that the Government saw the Commission solely as an economic arm of government. Of course that is a whole lot of nonsense. We spelt out in great detail, in more detail I think than any government has yet been prepared to spell out, in the national wage case submission which we put to the Commission the balance which it was necessary to achieve between economic factors and the realities of industrial relations, to use the honourable member's own words. The honourable member is arguing that inflation and employment are not sufficiently important to be taken into account specifically by the Commission. The honourable member and his Party may believe that employment and inflation are not sufficiently important, but the Government believes that they are of crucial importance. We make no apology for stressing that importance. 
Very briefly in response to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  he seems to be under some misapprehension about how the Government prepares its case which it submits to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I cannot speak for what happened when he was in office. Some very curious things happened in those days, but under this Government the case presented reflects the collective view of the Government. Unlike the present Opposition we support collective Cabinet responsibility. I think it would be inappropriate for public servants to be put in the witness box. The Government's case is just that; it is the Government's case. It is not that of individual people or of individual departments. It is a Government view. What is important is not one public servant's opinion or even several public servant's opinions, but the case submitted by the Government and it is then up to the Commission to make an assessment of the evidence presented to it. 
Very briefly I reiterate- I would have thought it was well known to the public of Australia and to the Committee- that the Government supports the wage indexation principles of the Full Bench of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Government has laid particular emphasis on the discretionary nature of those principles. I do not think that needs to be gone over again. I make this final point: If the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is arguing for a continuation of automatic application of the full consumer price index rise each quarter- I suspect he is- he is arguing for a continuation of inflation at around 13 per cent, with an absolutely guaranteed high rate of unemployment. If he chooses to make that argument it is his prerogative to do so. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Representation of parties). 
This matter has already been raised earlier in the debate by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
And by the honourable member for Gellibrand, I think, at the second reading stage. I must say that I regret the derogatory remarks which the honourable member for Gellibrand saw fit to make about counsel who appear for the Commonwealth before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I felt that those remarks were a bit unnecessary. I will repeat for his benefit, as he apparently wishes me to do so, the comments which I made earlier in response to the remarks made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. The comments I made were these: The Minister has always had the right to intervene in the public interest before the Full Bench in section 3 1, 34 and 35 matters. The Minister has always been represented by counsel in such cases except on a very few odd occasions when he has been represented by a member of the Australian Public Service. That has also been the position where he has appeared in proceedings before single members of the Commission by leave. So the amendments concerning representation do no more than recognise the existing position and extend it to cases where the Minister is entitled to ask for a reference or, in the terms of the amendment, a review. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  raises a number of questions involving practical problems. Leaving aside the question of corruption for a moment, one practical problem is whether the Australian Electoral Office would have the staff to provide the necessary number of scrutineers. Of course, under the rules each candidate is entitled to a scrutineer. In one election for one particular office the number of candidates could run into double figures. I presume that the honorable member for Mackellar is considering that one Australian Electoral Office representative could act for all candidates. But, of course, an election can be conducted anywhere in Australia and, indeed, in very many widely dispersed areas of Australia for the one election. 
There are 2 other elements that I think should be mentioned. The first is that on this particular aspect- indeed, the honourable member mentioned this himself- no discussions have taken place, as the Government is committed to an undertaking with the peak employer and union councils in respect of this matter. We have made the point that the unions should be eligible to conduct their own postal ballots. I remind the Committee that under section 140 and 141 of the Act members have recourse to the registrar and eventually to the Industrial Court if they believe there has been any irregularity in the ballot. 
Finally, I make the point that the Government has said that this legislation will be given a 2-year trial. The Government will be examining all aspects and the consequences of the legislation during that period. I thank the honourable member for his suggestion. I hope he will understand that because of the practical difficulties that I have outlined we do not intend to pursue it at the present time. However, I remind him again of the 2-year trial period for this piece of legislation. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  quoted a figure of cost and a number of extra officers who might be required in the Australian Electoral Office to conduct union ballots. I make the point that the number of extra staff quoted by the honourable member and the cost are estimates of what would be required if all union elections were conducted in this way. 
Yes. Because of the nature of the legislation we have introduced, some unions will- be catered for under section 170. Some unions presumably will elect to conduct their own ballots. It is quite true, as the honourable member for Gellibrand has said, that there has been an increasing tendency for unions to use the provisions of section 170. I think inherent in what he said was that he regarded this as quite a desirable trend. Certainly the Government considers that is a desirable trend. 
The point I want to make strongly is that no one is being forced into a position by this legislation. That is the whole object of what the Government has done in recognition of the arguments that were put to it. The legislation as now drafted gives unions a clear choice as to how they want their elections conducted- whether by the Electoral Office at public expense or by themselves at their own expense. So the unions have a clear choice and it is up to them which system they choose to use. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  referred to the fact that last year 29 unions applied for ballots to be conducted under section 170. He made the point that, as 3 years is not an unusual term of office, therefore approximately 50 unions a year are involved in elections. I merely make the point that not all unions fill all their offices in the one year. So, even though the term of office may be 3 years, certain offices of a union can come up for election each year. Nevertheless, I will make inquiries to find out what percentage of unions holding elections in that year asked for them to be conducted under section 170. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  raised the question of confusion that could arise within Federal and State jurisdictions, as did the honourable member for 
Hindmarsh. I merely want it on record that I have written to my State colleagues suggesting that this legislation and the possibility of complementary State legislation to minimise any confusion could be a possible matter for discussion at a conference of Labor Ministers. The honourable member for Port Adelaide referred to the percentage of votes cast in union elections. He implied that the percentage of votes cast in union elections conducted under the auspices of the Industrial Registrar or the Australian Electoral Office was not high. As a matter of fact, for the 29 unions referred to earlier the average return of ballot papers was just under 40 per cent. That might not be as high as we would like. Certainly we hope that over a period greater interest in union elections will result in greater participation. But it is a reasonable percentage and a good deal higher than the percentage for ballots where attendance is requested. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Treasurer to Question No. 526 which appeared  m Hansard on  26 May 1976 (page 2525). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) Fully comprehensive statistics on all industrial disputes in Australia are not available. However, information made available to my Department by the Meat and Allied Trades Federation in relation to strikes at Victorian abattoirs and meat firms during 1975 and 1976 is contained in Table One. 
(a) and (b) I am informed statistics on production of meat in Victoria for local consumption and export are available in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics publication, 'Australian Beef Cattle Industry- Submission to Industries Assistance Commission ' April 1 976. While stoppages at Victorian abattoirs and meat firms during 1975 and 1976 would undoubtedly have reduced meat production in the short term, it is not possible to isolate the long term effects of the stoppages on production. The Department of Primary Industry have advised that in the years 1975 and 1976 to date, there has been no loss of market, inability to quote on contracts, or non-fulfilment of contracts in the meat export market as a result of industrial disputes. The Australian Meat Board have advised that statistics are not retained on the effect of industrial disputes on meat production. 
I am informed statistics on farm income are available in the Australian Bureau of Statistics Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure (ABS Reference No. 75). It is not possible to isolate the effect of stoppages at abattoirs and meat firms in Victoria during 1975 and 1 97 6 on the level of farm income. 
See answer to Question ( 1 ). 
I am informed this information is not readily available. 
(a) No. 
Yes if they are not members of the striking union(s) at the establishment where the strike occurs. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
I am advised that the men referred to by the honourable member were employed by Steeldeck Industries ( WA) Pty Ltd in Western Australia and the offence which led to their suspension by the union is that they are alleged to have continued working while other members of the union were on strike. The company then sacked the 8 men, having been threatened with industrial action on all its projects around Australia. I have no doubt that the union movement is highly critical of people who work during a strike but I am dismayed at the action of the union officials which in this instance has meant that these men can no longer earn a living. 
This raises the question whether the action by the union officials was in conformity with the rules of the organisation. I understand that the 8 men concerned have instituted proceedings in the Supreme Court of Western Australia and of course I will not comment on that matter. What I can say is that the union concerned- the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union of Australia- is registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and that Act does provide adequate protection for union members from abuse of power by union officials. By section 140 of that Act members are enabled to seek orders from the Australian Industrial Court that particular union rules are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust. By section 141 of the Act members are enabled to seek orders from the Industrial Court requiring observance of the rules by members and officials of the organisation. Applicants under either of these sections can apply to the Attorney-General for financial assistance to pursue their case. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Responsibility for the scrutiny, payment and general administration of the entitlements of members of Parliament, including Ministers and Office-holders of the Opposition Party, is spread over a number of departments. 
Within my own Department a number of officers in various Divisions and Branches is involved in these matters but relatively few are engaged fulltime on such functions. 
As the honourable member is aware the entitlements of members of Parliament embrace a wide range of matters such as salary and allowances, provision of staff including payment of their salaries and allowances, accommodation, office furniture and equipment, office and residence telephones, newspapers, postage and car, rail and air transport. 
Because of the diversity of these matters and the relatively small number of staff engaged exclusively or even principally in the scrutiny, payment and general administration of members' entitlements, it is not practicable to give a meaningful answer to the honourable member's question. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The College is part of the Australian Trade Union Training Authority and is funded through funds appropriated by Parliament to the Authority. 
and (3) The College is in course of construction  and  will not be operative until the latter part of 1977. The question of fees and the length of the various courses will be a matter for consideration by the Authority before the College opens. 
It is envisaged that the Authority will conduct courses at Albury/Wodonga for about nine months of the year. Its facilities will be available on a tariff basis for other purposes when courses are not being conducted and it is expected that unions will consider the College as a venue for conferences and seminars. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1974-75-$ 1,003,449; 1975-76 to 31. 3.76-5880,430. 
1974-75-$l,209,003; 1975-76 to 3 1.3.76- $858,756. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Would the honourable member please refer to the reply by the Treasurer to House of Representatives Question No. 526 which appears on page 2525 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 26 May 1976. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Administrative Services purchases real property under the provisions of the  Lands Acquisition Act  1955-1973 for any purpose for which the Parliament has power to make laws. 
The Department is the sole purchaser of real property for use by Commonwealth Government departments. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The equivalent of sixteen staff are engaged in the Department of Administrative Services and associated agencies in a staff recruiting capacity. The estimated total cost of salaries for this staff for the current financial year is $161,268. 
The former Department of the Special Minister of State engaged private employment agencies to undertake recruiting activities on only two occasions during the past three years. 
There was no payment to private employment agencies during the 1 974-75 financial year. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service is requested to recruit exempt staff in cases where the approval of the Public Service Inspector is not necessary, e.g., exempt storemen, gardeners, etc. No charge is made for this service. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Office of the Purchasing Commission within the Department of Administrative Services has commenced a review of purchasing policies and procedures. 
The Department of Administrative Services is already responsible for arranging for the purchase of a wide range of goods and services required by other Departments. The Government has, however, made no decision as to the extent to which departmental purchasing might be centralised in that Department and will not do so until it considers the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement chaired by  Sir Walter  Scott and of other relevant inquiries such as that currently being conducted by  Sir Henry  Bland. 
See (1) and (2) above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Committee's report, which is a comprehensive one dealing with the whole subject of public libraries in Australia, is at present under consideration. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As records of this sort are not normally retained beyond six (6) years, the information requested prior to 1970-71 is not readily available. Accordingly the following answers to the question are provided for the past six (6) years only. The information covers large, medium and small sedans and station sedans purchased by the now Transport and Storage Division of my Department for use in the car pools. 
(0-_ 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Rates of overseas travelling allowance for Ministers, Leaders of the Opposition, etc., are determined from time to time by the Prime Minister. They are paid in advance (when requested) by the Department of Administrative Services. 
After returning from an overseas visit, the travelling allowance advance is acquitted by submitting to the Department a detailed statement of expenditure incurred and any unspent moneys arc repaid to the Department. 
The costs of $895 and $62 relating to the visits of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs respectively include only the amounts actually brought to account in the Department's ledgers in Australia by 30 April 1976. There would have been other expenditure incurred by overseas posts but which had not been brought to account in Australia: there would also have been further amounts incurred overseas, the accounts for which had not been received by the overseas post: there would be supplementary amounts payable or amounts of travelling allowance to be repaid to the Department when an advance is acquitted. 
As at 3 1 May 1976 the expenditure brought to account in Australia stood at $944 for the Prime Minister and $586 for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
It is normally several months before final expenditure figures for any given visit are available. 
Amounts shown against Ministers' travel expenses do not include estimates of travel charges where the journey is undertaken by VIP aircraft nor do they include estimates of accommodation costs where guest status was accorded by the host government. 
The figures quoted represent the actual cost to the public purse which has been met by the Department of Administrative Services at any given time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Except for 148 hectares of land on West Island bought by Australia in 195 1, the land of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands above high water mark has been owned by the Clunies Ross family since 1886 when it was granted to an ancestor of the present  Mr Clunies  Ross by Queen Victoria.  Mr Clunies  Ross does not manage the Islands but he does operate a copra plantation on his property. 
See(l). 
The Australian Government has not established a timetable for independence for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. It is currently reviewing its policy regarding the future of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
The Cocos Islands have been an Australian nonselfgoverning Territory since 23 November 1955 when their transfer from Britain was accepted by the  Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act  1955. 
Aboriginal/Police Relations  (Question No. 170) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although I have not initiated such as study, the Geelong employment situation as with other areas in Australia is closely monitored by my Department. As you are no doubt aware however, a detailed study of the unemployment problem in the Geelong area was undertaken in February/March 1975 by the Geelong Growth Centre Planning Group with assistance from the then Department of Labor and Immigration. The report entitled 'Geelong Strategy- Employment in Geelong' can be obtained from the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Statistics are not collected in a form to provide separate data for the Batman Electorate Division. However the Electoral Division of Batman comprises the Employment Office area of Northcote and parts of the Heidelberg and Collingwood Employment Office areas. At the end of May 1976, the number of persons registered as unemployed at each of these offices were as follows: 
Information is not available on the number of those unemployed who are migrants or persons over 50 years of age or under 25 years of age. Statistics are collected for persons under 2 1 years and for women. At the end of May 1976 these were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics in the detail required are not immediately available. However, I have set out below the results of a sample survey of full-time NEAT trainees in Victoria. The sample was 130 trainees selected on a random basis and represented 10 per cent of full-time NEAT trainees in Victoria. Caution should be exercised in applying the results of the survey to the situation under NEAT in States other than Victoria. 
The results of the sample survey for the groups as requested are as follows: 
6 per cent 
37 per cent 
6 per cent 
5 per cent 
4 per cent 
1 percent 
1 per cent 
6 per cent 
5 per cent 
5 per cent 
Nil 
21 per cent 
3 percent 
In respect of category (n) it is not possible to provide an indication of the percentage of married trainees with spouses earning in excess of $238.20 per week. Being eligible for reimbursement of fees and books and equipment costs only they are recorded along with other trainees m this category. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average staff employed by the Commonwealth Employment Service during the current financial year is expected to total 2790. The total annual salary cost involved, based on the average staffing level of 2790, is expected to total $26,300,000. 
This Department, as is the case with all Commonwealth Departments, is required to submit recruitment demands to the Public Service Inspectors in the respective States, who recruit and allocate staff in accordance with departmental requests. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service does at times assist Government Departments to recruit staff. However, this is generally limited to those occasions where the Public Service Inspectors are unable to satisfy departmental requests for staff, and this tends to occur mainly in country rather than metropolitan areas. 
Departments are permitted to recruit base level 'exempt' staff and the Commonwealth Employment Service has assisted in recruiting such staff wherever requested. 
During the financial year 1974-75 the Commonwealth Employment Service spent $8,465 on advertising job vacancies. 
I understand that the Trade Union Training Authority has on one occasion engaged a person for a short period of time through a private employment agency. I have also been advised that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has on a few occasions in the past engaged a private employment agency to recruit such essential staff as accounting machinists, for periods up to 3 weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Some 9100 projects with an estimated total value of $247m were approved under the RED Scheme, of which $207m (approx) was to be funded by the Commonwealth Government. Approval was later withdrawn for just over 900 projects with a total value of about $ 18m because no unemployed persons had commenced work on them at July 1975 when the former Ministers responsible for the Scheme decided to review it against the proposed 1975-76 Budget allocation of $ 135m. 
The location of all approved projects was as follows: 
-Before going to the main body of the honourable member's question I think it is worth reviewing the employment situation both when the Labor Government came to power and when it went out of office. When it came to power in December 1972 the number of unemployed in Australia in actual terms was about 136 000. When it was tossed out of office last December the number of unemployed was about 328 000. So let there be no mistake about what caused Australia's high unemployment and what is the basic cause of the unemployment rate that we have now. As the honourable member has correctly identified, it was 3 years of disastrous economic mismanagement by the Labor Government. 
Coming now to the main part of the honourable member's question, yes, I have stressed to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and indeed to other union leaders- other Ministers have joined me in those expressions of concern- the nexus between wage costs and job opportunities. At the talks that we held in June it was recognised by the union movement that there was a nexus between excessive wage rises, inflation and unemployment. Unfortunately, that recognition has not been carried forward into the practical policies which are pursued by the leaders of the Labor movement. 
As a result of their policies we now have 3 categories of workers in Australia. First, we have those in safe employment. In the second category we have those in vulnerable employment, and I put in this category those in import competing industries who have their jobs threatened by the excessively high rate of wages in Australia at present, and those in export competing industries which have to rely on world market prices for their products. Of course, in the third category are the unemployed. The Labor movement's wages policy would inevitably reduce the number of those in safe employment, increasing the number in vulnerable employment and push more and more of those presently in vulnerable employment into the ranks of the unemployed. In fact, it would mean more and more wages certainly, but for fewer and fewer people. It shows a total lack of concern for the unemployed and would have the effect of adding to their numbers. 
There are members of this community who do not have powerful industrial muscle. These people have been deserted by leaders in the Labor movement and their political representatives. They are the unemployed, the selfemployed and the tens of thousands of primary producers who are battling the combined effects of drought, disastrously high increases in their costs and disastrously low prices for their products. We will not desert these people even if the Opposition does. We have been representing their interests before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and it is just as well that we have, because they have been callously disregarded by the leaders of the Labor movement. 
-The figures available to me are consistent with those the Treasurer has already given to the House. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the National Training Council for the year ended 3 1 December 1 975. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
If circumstances were to arise that required either police or security scrutiny of a member of parliament, the person entitled to authorise scrutiny would, as in the case of the scrutiny of other citizens, be an appropriate police officer or (in security matters) the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization. In so far as the scrutiny would involve the interception of a telephone service, the warrant of the Attorney-General issued at the request of the Director-General would be required under the  Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act  1 960. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I) to (12) A total of 7 534 persons were supported in training under the NEAT system at March 1 976. Some 5 300 of these were in receipt of various allowances. The remainder were in-plant training where the employer is paid a subsidy and the trainee receives at least the award wage for the job. 
I am not able to give the precise numbers of trainees who were students at tertiary institutions. However, the vast majority of trainees undergoing formal courses of training under NEAT would be doing so at a post-secondary level. 
The following table details the number of trainees in the different categories of training as at 1 March and 1 April. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Assistance with training towards employment as a farm manager is available subject to the following conditions which apply to all those seeking assistance under NEAT; first, the applicant must be a person who is unable to obtain employment with his or her current skills; second, there must be a strong labour market demand for the occupation in which training is to be provided. 
As to the second condition, research by my Department indicates that newly qualified farm managers can expect to face a selective labour market, although this is somewhat less the case in Victoria. 
Regrettably I am unable to answer the honourable member's statistical questions in the full detail that he requires. However, 1 1 1 persons were approved for training in farm management between 1 October 1974 and 31 December 1975. 
In the period 1 October 1974 and 30 June 1975 some 76 persons who had applied for assistance with such training did not pursue their applications or were not approved for assistance. 
Training under NEAT has been undertaken at various agricultural colleges throughout the country, both private and Government funded institutions. Preference has normally been given to the latter, but the needs of the individual are taken into account. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Public Service Board recently conducted a survey of Departments for relevant information on counter staff employed in Departments and agencies under the Public Service Act. The answers provided are based on the results of that survey and relate only to staff employed under the Public Service Act. 
The classification of positions which have counter contact with the public in the various Departments and other agencies is determined in the light of a number of factors including the range and complexity of the issues likely to be raised by the public, the effective use of staffing resources and the observance of administrative economy. Positions vary widely in their duties and responsibilities and therefore in the classifications they are accorded. In some situations, positions of higher classification may have counter contact with the public as a second stage when complex issues are raised at the primary contact level. 
The following table provides a guide to the range of classifications and duties of positions in departments and agencies which have counter contact with the public: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) Yes. The Commission is to be relocated in alternative premises in Brisbane. Because of the nonavailability of space at present, it is not expected that a move will be effected before the next financial year. 
The State Office of the Commission is aware of the plans for relocation and has indicated that it can cope until the alternative space becomes available. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Transport and Storage Division of my Department, as the Central Transport Authority in the States, is the central source for forwarding Commonwealth freight, but other Departments also move quantities of freight to and from Canberra by road and rail. To compile figures in respect of all Departments would be expensive and time consuming. The amount of freight forwarded by the Central Transport Authority and carried by Commonwealth road transport between 1 July 1975 and 30 June 1976 was as follows: 
-The House will remember that the question of secret postal ballots for the election of all officers of industrial organisations, both of employers and employees, was given considerable publicity during the last election campaign. During the last session of Parliament legislation was introduced to give effect to those proposals. Before that legislation was introduced, in accordance with the undertakings contained in our industrial policy, I held detailed discussions with the peak councils of the union movement and of the employer organisations and received the benefit of their views as to the detail of the legislation. I acknowledge that as a result of those discussions considerable and significant improvements were made to the legislation. Subsequently, on the introduction of the legislation and its passage through the Parliament, it may be remembered I gave an undertaking that the legislation would not be proclaimed until the people affected- the people with whom I had had discussions previous to the introduction of the legislation- had been consulted again to see whether they had any comments to make or improvements to suggest to the legislation. I held those further discussions with the relevant organisations during the winter recess. The employer organisations had no comments to make. The only comment made by the union movement was that the legislation was unnecessary. But no suggestions were made as to detailed improvements. 
The Government considers this legislation very necessary. It has the overwhelming support of the Australian people and, from my own experience, I know it also has very considerable support in the rank and file of the trade union movement itself. Consequently the legislation was proclaimed. Subsequent to the drafting of the relevant regulations it came into operation on 9 August. Elections for all office bearers of industrial organisations as defined in the Act will now take place under the provisions of the new legislation. 
-The first point I make in answer to the honourable member is that when comparing the figures for July of this year with the figures for July of last year it should be remembered at this time last year- I do not want to be held to the exact figure- the numbers employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme was about 30 000. When that is taken into account, in raw terms the number of unemployed in July this year was some, I think, 10 000 less than the corresponding number for the same time last year. Also, in succeeding Press releases relating to unemployment I have continually made reference to the difficulty of interpreting the seasonally adjusted statistics. The Commonwealth Statistician has continually drawn specific attention to this matter and in many of my releases I have quoted his actual words.  His  concern, I understand, still applies; namely, that there is grave doubt as to whether the seasonally adjusted figures which are coming out now are a reliable indicator of the labour market. Therefore, I have been careful to use the language that I have in those Press releases relating to unemployment because there is conflict in some of the figures which we are getting on the seasonally adjusted and on the raw bases. But what remains absolutely certain- I made this point yesterday- is that the result of 3 years of Labor government lifted unemployment from 136 000 when Labor was elected to 328 000 when it went out of office. A continuation of the policies which led to those figures is an absolute guarantee that the position would get worse. 
I am aware of the situation which has been outlined by the honourable member. It applies to individual people other than those in Ballaarat whom he mentioned. It is a situation which has caused grave disquiet in the community and, of course, great concern to the individual union members involved. Unions have been highly selective and discriminatory in their actions. For example, the Australian Tramways and Motor Omnibus Employees Association in South Australia backed this so-called national strike. But then, to its discomfort, it found that more than half its members turned up for work- more than 600 employees- and public transport services operated almost normally. Realising then that it was totally out of touch with the feelings of its own rank and file members, that union- not surprisingly- took no action. 
But other unions or branches of them have taken action. I stress the question of branches because not all the unions that I am about to name now have taken action against their members at the federal level; some have done so at individual branch levels. Unions in that category are the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation, .the Australian Workers Union and the Federated. Ironworkers Association. There may be other unions, but these unions or branches of them have taken or have threatened to take action against their members. The Government views this matter so seriously that I am seeking urgent talks with the Australian Council of Trade Unions on this question. The  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  has stated publicly that he does not agree with unions taking action to fine their members in this way. I am hopeful that  Mr Hawke  and the ACTU will use their influence and good offices to get these unions or the branches of them concerned to call off this action against their members. 
In the meantime it is important that the union members involved should be aware of their rights. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act refers to this sort of situation in section 188. But, in addition, members who are fined or disciplined under the union rules have rights under section 140 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which provides, amongst other things, that rules of organisations shall not hinder members from observing the provisions of an award. This is of such importance that in order to be quite certain that the information I am giving is accurate, I should like to read from a short note that I have. It states that if a member obtains an order from the court calling upon the union to show cause why an order should not be made under section 140, the applicant can apply to the Attorney-General for financial assistance by the Commonwealth in respect of costs he may become liable to pay in connection with the proceedings. If the Attorney-General is satisfied that it is likely that hardship would be caused to the union member if assistance were not given, the Attorney-General may authorise payments in respect of such costs. The Attorney-General can authorise payment to be made in respect of proceedings either before or after they have been heard and determined by the court. 
Pursuant to sections 6(5) and 7(7) of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 I present a copy of the Remuneration Tribunal's  1976 Review.  This contains determinations or reports on the remuneration of Ministers of State, members of Parliament, judges, holders of offices in the First Division of the Australian Public Service, and holders of public offices. 
Pursuant to sub-section 7(7) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 I also present determination number 1976/4, which preceded the  1976 Review  and relates to holders of certain public offices. 
I welcome the newfound interest of the honourable member and the Opposition in the problems of the young unemployed. In answering a question last week I pointed out that when the Australian Labor Party came to office the number of unemployed in Australia totalled 136 000. When it left office it totalled 328 000. 1 now point out that when the Labor Party came to office there were approximately 80 000 young people unemployed. When it left office there were 152 000 young people unemployed. So its record in relation to unemployment is consistent across the board. Nevertheless, if the honourable member had been giving more attention to some speeches on this topic that I have been making recently he would be more aware of the sorts of issues that he, quite properly, raises. The fact that I have been speaking about them for some months shows that the Government also is concerned about this problem. 
The honourable member asked what steps the Government is taking to alleviate what is acknowledged as a very serious social problem for Australia and the young people concerned. One of the measures we have taken is to continue to support under the National Employment and Training Scheme the re-training program for apprentices whose indentures were in danger of termination because of the policies of the previous Government. The Government's expenditure in the field of technical and further education has been showing a higher rate of increase than in any other field of education- universities, colleges of advanced education or school programs. I think from memory the increase has been something like  7Vi  per cent, whereas the increase in other fields was about one-third of that figure. 
At the moment a standing committee of the National Training Council, acting with the full support of my Department, is working towards the development of special programs under NEAT for unemployed youth. This question was also a matter of discussion when the Government held talks with the trade union movement and the employers during the winter recess. Continuing discussions will be held at departmental level. 
That is the immediate situation in the context of youth unemployment. But there is, and has been for some time, an emerging longer term problem which is not confined to Australia. Despite my best endeavours I can find very little evidence to indicate that the previous Government made any attempt to come to grips with this situation. Indeed, it exacerbated the position. As I and other Ministers have continually pointed out, a problem in Australia is that people are pricing themselves out of the job market, and the level of wages of young people is now such as to discourage the employment of young people if older people with acquired skills can be obtained in the market place. As a direct result of the policies of the previous Government, employment prospects for young people have been put at risk. I have made one error,  Mr Speaker.  I found one single piece of evidence to indicate that the Labor Government had some appreciation of the problem to which reference was made. That was the establishment of a working party to examine the transition between secondary education and employment. I understand that the report of this working party is expected to be available soon and I and the Government will be examining it with great interest. Unlike our predecessors, we have taken note of the problem. I have already enumerated some of the actions we have taken. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to correct some information given in answer to a question last week on the same subject as the matter of public importance which has just been debated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To date Australia has not ratified the following ILO maritime conventions which remain open to ratification: 
-The main cause of the reduction in funds to which the honourable member refers is, of course, the phasing out of the Regional Employment Development scheme, a decision which I remind the House was taken by the previous Government and confirmed by this Government when it came to office. So far as retraining is concerned, the Government is committed to the continuation of the National Employment and Training scheme and I am pleased to report that there are increasing numbers receiving training under that scheme with greater emphasis on in-plant training. 
The Australian people have already seen the disastrous effects of trying to spend our way out of unemployment. I understand that the honourable member himself when in government was a strong advocate of that form of financial management of the country which was proved to be hopelessly unsuccessful. Such action in fact would be an absolute guarantee of a renewed increase in inflation with the inevitable concurrent rise in unemployment. The Government on the other hand does have a concern not only for those in employment but also for those who are unemployed and who would have no hope whatever of getting a job back again under the policies which are espoused by the honourable member. 
BUDGET STATEMENT No. 2: LEVEL OF UNEMPLOYMENT  Mr GRAHAM-  I direct my question to the Treasurer. Has the honourable gentleman detected clandestine influences of obscure origin which are peddling theories about Budget Statement No. 2? Does the analysis contained in Budget Statement No. 2 support the assertion that the Budget is based on an increase in the level of unemployment? 
-I remember the question asked by the honourable member in the last sittings of Parliament. At that time I gave an undertaking that what assistance could be given through the Department would be given. I asked the Department to follow up that undertaking. If that has not been done I would appreciate it if the honourable member would give me details after question time and I will see that it is done. 
The following answer to the honourable member's question replaces the answer published in  Hansard  on 18 August 1976: 
to (12)- A total of 7534 persons were supported in training under the NEAT system at March 1976. Some 5300 of these were in receipt of various allowances. The remainder were in in-plant training where the employer is paid a subsidy and the trainee receives at least the award wage for the job. 
I am not able to give the precise numbers of trainees who were students at tertiary institutions. However, the vast majority of trainees undergoing formal courses of training under NEAT would be doing so at a post-secondary level. 
The following table details the number of trainees in the different categories of training as at 1 March and 1 April. 
-The figures for overtime were quoted. They are the only figures available and they were given in the Press statement in the normal way. The reason given for the omission of the seasonally adjusted unemployment statistics is basically the same as the reason for the other series which the Leader of the Opposition has just mentioned. At the conference of Labour Ministers in Adelaide last Friday this issue was raised, in view of the Statistician's comments over a long period. I think the Leader of the Opposition will be aware of those comments. I sought views around the table. It was the unanimous view of the Ministers- I stress the unanimity because 3 Ministers were members of the Labor Party and three were members of the Liberal Party- that seasonally adjusted figures were highly confusing, served no useful purpose and should be discontinued. That is the basic reason for the format of the series which the Leader of the Opposition mentioned. 
For the information of honourable members I present an Interim Report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships dated 30 January 1976. 
by leave- It is of major concern not only to the Government, but also to individual rank and file workers and the community generally, that orderly methods of wage fixation are under attack by certain elements within the trade union movement. In its decision in the June quarter wage indexation case, the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission expressed apprehension that industrial action to obtain wage increases and other benefits outside the Commission's wage indexation guidelines was placing the Commission's orderly system of wage fixation in jeopardy. In its decision in the hearing in relation to the June quarter, the Commission said: 
For the economy to recover, two inter-related matters, namely, inflation and unemployment must improve. The whole economic situation gives cause for grave disquiet but in particular we are concerned with the present level of unemployment which touches not only the economy but also industrial relations. 
We have reached the same conclusion as was reached on 28 May that*. . . we should proceed cautiously in order to avoid, if possible, prolonging unduly by our decision the hardship to which a large section of the community including wage and salary earners have been exposed '. 
Economic recovery and a return to full employment is dependent on a policy of wage restraint. The Government's wages policy has been devised with these objectives very much in mind and the purpose of this statement is to explain the Government's policy in this vital area and the reasons underlying it. 
I welcome the new-found interest of the Opposition in this very important issue. If the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  had paid more attention to speeches I have made during the last few months he would have been better informed about this matter and would not have made so many mistakes in the speech he has just given. What the Opposition is now doing is attacking the disastrous results of its own disastrous policies. 
It is a fact. The honourable member also made many errors of fact. He referred to the number of unemployed now being higher than the number of unemployed at the same time last year. But the honourable member did not bother to tell the House that in addition to the number of registered unemployed at this time last year 26 000 people were employed under the RED scheme. If that fact is taken into account the number of unemployed now is about 7000 less than the number of unemployed at this time last year. I am not saying that the position is satisfactory, but I repeat that the number of unemployed now is 7000 less than the number of unemployed at this time last year. The Budget, despite the honourable member's allegations, is not predicated on an increase in unemployment. I do not intend to go over the figures that have been presented to the House by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on many occasions, but they give the lie to the honourable member. Then he referred to the reduction in people employed under the NEAT scheme, saying that the numbers had gone down from 14 000 to about 7500. But he did not say that the numbers went down from 14 000 to 7700 before the Labor Government lost office. Now the figures are climbing again. 
-They were not. The plain fact is that the honourable member said that the numbers employed under the NEAT scheme had declined from a peak of 14 000. 1 am saying that the numbers declined from a peak of 14 000 to 7700 during the time the Labor Government was in office. The numbers employed under the NEAT scheme are now climbing, and I am glad to say that the increased emphasis on in-plant training, as distinct from the much longer tertiary courses to which the Labor Government gave priority, will be not only of more immediate benefit to the people undergoing training but also far more advantageous to the community as a whole because these people enter the productive work force so much more quickly. 
The honourable member referred to the reduction in the intake of apprentices. It is perfectly true that the number of apprentices has declined. The reasons for this decline are contained in the statement I made this afternoon on the Government's wages policy. The cost of training apprentices has risen by between 30 per cent and 40 per cent as a result of the disastrous economic policies of the Labor Government over the last 2 years. 
It is not claptrap. I will repeat it. The cost of training apprentices has increased by between 30 per cent and 40 per cent over the last couple of years. It is no wonder that in these circumstances young people are finding it difficult to obtain suitable apprenticeships. It may interest the honourable member to know that at the recent conference of Labor Ministers in Adelaide we agreed to have a special meeting in November after a special working party which we set up has reported back to us on suggestions for improving the apprenticeship system in Australia. 
That is an interesting point. The proposal to increase the payroll tax on wages paid to tradesmen together with a complete exemption from payroll tax of wages paid to apprentices was never pointed up. In fact - 
-A couple of the States would have bought it, but there is no point in having something that is not acceptable Australia-wide. I accept that. So we have to try to find something better. But I did put forward a constructive suggestion that would encourage those who have a responsibility for training apprentices- that is, the employers of tradesmen- to make some contribution to it. 
As I have already said in this House, when the Labor Government assumed office it inherited an unemployment rate of about 135 000 and when it left office the rate was 328 000. When the Labor Government came to power there were 80 000 young people unemployed and when it left office there were 152 000 unemployed. So not only did the previous Administration create the highest level of unemployment in Australia since the Depression by its hopeless ineptitude, its economic illiteracy and its blind ideology but also the youth unemployment rate almost doubled. That is a tragic record and a tragic performance for a Party that says it has some concern for people. Having inherited Australia's worst unemployment situation for over 40 years, the Government immediately set about instituting the measures essential for economic recovery. We said that it would not be easy. We said that it would not be quick. But if Australia had been allowed to go on in the way in which it was going under the Labor Party we were headed for economic collapse. 
The Government and the community at large are well aware that, by the end of last year, the unemployment level had risen to the figures that I have just mentioned. Besides the economic impact of that there is, as the Treasurer stressed in his Budget Speech, the personal difficulties of school leavers and other young people who have been denied jobs by the policies of our predecessors. As the honourable member for Gellibrand correctly pointed out, the problem is more than a problem of school leavers. The Government's objective is to overcome the major distortions to the economy that have become real barriers to a return to full employment. That, of course, means full employment for young people as well as adults. The present youth employment problems reflect the severe effects of the present recession of young people. 
At the same time, there is evidence of a disturbing longer term trend that is common to almost all advanced countries. It is no excuse for complacency but at least we in Australia are not experiencing the horrendous levels of youth unemployment, which have reached 40 per cent or more, in some urban centres overseas. 
I draw attention to the fact, and mentioned earlier, that I am on public record as having sounded essentially the same warnings with respect to the youth unemployment situation as were contained in the address by the senior official of my Department that was extensively reported in the Press and that has been referred to in this debate. The latest available unemployment figures for the younger age group relate to May 1976. They have been derived from the Australian Bureau of Statistics quarterly labour force surveys, as our own statistics do not go into detail as to the unemployment rate for different age groups. As at May 1976, the unemployment rate for persons under 20 years of age was 12.5 per cent or more than 4 times the rate of 3 per cent of those aged 20 and over. 
But several points should be noted about this high level of youth unemployment. Firstly, unemployment among those under 20 years of age has been in excess of 10 per cent since November 1974. 1 did not hear much fuss being made about it then by the Australian Labor Party. Indeed, it reached a peak of 15.6 per cent in November 1 975. 1 did not hear much about it then from the Labor Party. That was its last month in office. It is to be observed, therefore, that during the last 12 months in office of the Labor Government these inordinately high youth unemployment rates prevailed. 
While it is true that nearly 40 per cent of the total unemployed at present are under 20 years of age, it is to be borne in mind that this level of representation of youth among the unemployed is by no means unique. In fact, this level of representation broadly holds irrespective of the state of the economy. The fact that the unemployment rate among young people is 4 times the rate among adult workers, while a completely accurate statement, it also needs to be viewed in perspective. In particular, there should be no assumption that the unemployment rates for those under 20 years of age should be the same as those for adult workers. Youth unemployment rates throughout the 1960s and 1970s have always been higher than those for adult workers. That, of course, is largely to be expected given the 'new entrant' status of young people in the labour market. The concentrated inflow of school leavers always takes some time to be accommodated and is reflected in seasonal increases in the recorded unemployment rates. Again, the rate of job turnover is considerably higher among younger workers and is also reflected in the unemployment rate. On the other hand, there is no denying that there is now a greater relative disparity between the unemployment rates among the young and those for the remainder of the work force. 
The Government has already taken a number of steps in relation to youth employment. In terms of existing programs, for example, we have continued our support through the special assistance program under the National Employment and Training scheme for apprentices whose jobs are in jeopardy. This program is financed under the NEAT scheme and provides financial assistance to employers who, because of financial difficulties or shortages of work, are forced to seek the cancellation of the indentures of apprentices in their employment. It also permits assistance to be offered to employers who would otherwise be unable to accept apprentices whose indentures already have had to be cancelled through the difficulties of their former employers. It also enables apprentices who have uncompleted commitments for block release training to be assisted while attending schooling and this in turn enables them to be placed more readily with new employers. 
Since this program 's inception more than 5000 apprentices have been assisted. Currently there are 1630 apprentices who are known to be temporarily out of trade for whom assistance will be or is being sought. During July 224 apprentices were found work through this program but without the need for financial assistance and 852 were assisted through the special NEAT program. The estimated expenditure in this program this financial year is $ 1 .6m. 
Secondly, I invite honourable members to examine our expenditure on education for this financial year and to discover the importance that we place on the vocational preparation of young people for employment in a modern economy. It will be observed, as indeed it was conceded by the honourable member for Gellibrand, that the expenditure on technical and further education has been at a higher growth rate than the expenditure in respect of other forms of education. Thirdly, mention also should be made of the consideration presently being given in the context of a standing committee of the National Training Council, with the full support of my Department, to the development of special programs under the NEAT scheme for unemployed youth. Fourthly, youth unemployment was one of the matters of particular concern to the Government that was discussed at the conferences held recently between the Government and trade unions on the one hand and the Government and employers on the other. Continuing discussions with both of those groups on the subject of youth unemployment, among other things, are to be held. 
Finally, through the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Government provides not only job placement assistance but also job information and counselling. In relation to job information, career reference centres have been established in all capital cities and some major provincial cities throughout Australia. Over 200 000 inquiries were made at career references centres in the last financial year. The offices of the CES also have several hundred counsellors who visit schools through the year with advice and information on careers. In the last financial year over 140 000 school leavers received such information and advice. Both the employment offices and the regional offices are equipped with trained psychologists, who provided vocational guidance to over 24 000 people in the last financial year. Both my Department and I encourage and support publications such as  Opportunities for School-Leavers in Australia 1976-77,  which assist generally in the counselling of school leavers. All of those measures have, taken together, had a considerable impact on the problem. For example, the number of school leavers registered for unemployment, which is a substantial component of the total youth unemployment, fell from a peak of 60 000 in December 1975 to a little over 12 000 last month. 
I turn now to a brief comment on the longer term trend. Two features should be noted. The first is that the origins of the long upward trend in youth unemployment lie back in the last decade. I can find little evidence to indicate that the previous Labor Government was prepared to come to grips with this disturbing development. Indeed, by its actions the previous Government actually exacerbated the trend. I have referred to the disastrous effects upon young people of the wages explosion of 1974 and 1975. 
Yes, of course you did. You thought you could spend your way out of unemployment, and in your efforts to spend your way out of unemployment you trebled it. The only action of the previous Government to which I can point as containing any acknowledgement of the youth unemployment problem is the appointment of a working party to examine the transition between secondary education and employment. The report of this working party is expected to be received shortly by the Australian Education Council, and I await its findings with considerable interest. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) $3,6 1 8 (estimated ) as at 20 August 1976. 
One Rolls Royce, one Daimler and three Ford Fairmont vehicles have been damaged. The damage included denting of door panels, side panels, guards, bonnets, turret tops and broken windows. My Department has no knowledge of any other damage to Commonwealth property. 
3 ) The Commonwealth. 
The damage was caused as the result of demonstrations. The names and addresses of the demonstrators concerned are not known. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government recently determined that an Electoral Assistant on the staff of a Minister may travel at the Minister's direction between a Minister's home base and Canberra. When so travelling an Electorate Assistant is entitled to payment of fares and travelling allowance. An Electoral Assistant is not entitled to payment of overtime and travel entitlement is restricted to the journeys specified above. 
No decision has been made by the Government to extend this travel entitlement to the Electorate Assistants of private Members. 
The honourable member would be aware, however, that the Remuneration Tribunal, in its Determination Number 1 976/6 of 2 1 June 1 976, determined that up to, but no more than, two of the return visits to Canberra to which the spouse or nominee of a  Senator or  Member is entitled may be used by the staff of a  Senator or  Member. 
I have seen the document to which the honourable member referred. In my opinion, it was totally inadequate for the purpose for which it was designed. My Department is presently engaged in preparing a more adequate document. 
-The dispute to which the honourable member refers, concerning the Plumbers and Gas Fitters Employees Union, relates to the sprinkler and pipe fitters award and goes back to a log of claims lodged about 18 months ago that included claims for a 35-hour week and a $60 increase in wages. Since that time there have been stoppages, bans and the working of 36, 35 and 32 hour weeks more or less continually on and off in Victoria, South Australia, Queensland and Western Australia. The dispute has been before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission many times. The claims have been refused because they are clearly outside the indexation guidelines. Many members of the Union concerned have been dismissed. The general building industry is becoming dislocated. About a month ago the Victorian members of the Union voted to go on strike indefinitely and they are still out. The dispute is now at a complete stalemate. It is not putting the matter too high to say that the whole building industry is now threatened. Thousands of jobs are at risk and thousands of stand-downs are a distinct possibility. It is a classic example of a selfish pursuit of excessive wage claims without regard to thousands of other workers, their families and the community. 
Commissioner Brack of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in a recent decision used words which I think are stronger than I had ever heard from the Bench of the Commission. He referred to 'a disgraceful situation', and said 'many buildings no longer have the safety protection that they should'. He referred to the callous and totally irresponsible union approach. I understand that Commissioner Brack has taken the very unusual course of sending copies of his decision to every individual member of the Union in Victoria and Queensland. I ask the Union members concerned to consider carefully Commissioner Brack's decision, the loss of jobs their actions have already caused and the potentially disastrous situation which would arise if they continued on their present course of action. 
Pursuant to sub-section 7 (7) of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 I present a copy of the Remuneration Tribunal's Determination number 1976-8 relating to holders of certain public offices and determination number 1976-9 relating to members of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In its last Annual Report to Parliament the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial stated that it was not providing the service to the nation which is its responsibility under the Australian War Memorial Act The Trustees considered that, in comparison with comparable museums (including art galleries) in the States, its resources fell short of appropriate standards, particularly in relation to professional staff numbers. 
The Trustees, after careful examination of existing staff resources, have recommended an increase in the number of professional and managerial staff- particularly in the fields of conservation, curatorship, education and display. These proposals are currently under consideration. 
I recall the occasion very well. If my recollection is correct- I shall need to check on this- after the question from the Leader of the Opposition I raised the issue again by way of letter with the State Ministers. The matter had been listed, as I remember, for the next meeting of labour Ministers but it was down the agenda and I do not think we got to it. My normal practice is that if agenda items are not discussed I raise them by letter afterwards. I shall have to check to see whether I followed that course on this occasion. The agenda for Ministers' meetings, as the Leader of the labour would know, is arranged in conjunction with the State labour Ministers and for this last occasion they did not seek to have the issue put on the agenda. So it was not raised at the meeting last Friday. But what I said to the Leader of the Opposition on the last occasion still stands. 
I am aware that the Australian Capital Territory Apprentice of the Year was  Mr Griffin.  I congratulate him. I am sure that it is very pleasing to all members of this House that he is a former member of the staff here. Having attended many apprenticeship presentations, I can say that I have always been very impressed with the outstanding quality of the craftsmanship that is displayed there. There is no doubt that Australia needs more tradesmen. Despite the very large contribution by the Commonwealth Government in this field- about $41m this year, of which $26m is to be paid by way of subsidy to employers of first year apprentices- the numbers are failing. This issue was discussed at length at the meeting of labour Ministers held last week in Adelaide. I might say that it was a very constructive meeting and I acknowledge the contributions made at the conference by both Labor and Liberal Party Ministers. As a result of the discussions, a working party was set up to report back to a special meeting of labour Ministers in November. I should emphasise that, despite some comments that have been made recently, there is no question of the Federal Government vacating this field. I am concerned to see how existing funds can be used to get better results and whether the base of support for apprentice training in Australia could be widened. 
Yes, these committees do important work and I recognise that. They were established over a period of time by the previous Government and accordingly not all the terms of office expired on the same date. To bring things into line I decided to have all terms of office of these committees expire on 30 June this year to get a common date. I have been engaged since in discussions and investigations relating to the appointment of chairmen. I am aware that there has been a build-up of work both at the national and State levels but I am anxious to get all the chairmen appointed at the same time to avoid confusion. I am in the final stages of getting appointments approved and I hope to announce the chairmen at both the national and State levels in the very near future. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I would like to correct some information which I gave in an answer to a question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  last Tuesday. The question related to the seasonally adjusted figures for unemployment and related statistics. The particular element of my reply that I would like to correct is that relating to seasonally adjusted overtime figures. When I cleared the Press statement for release, the figures for overtime were on the basis on which they had normally been published, that is, on a seasonally adjusted basis. Normally, those figures appear only in that form and I thought that they had been maintained on that criterion. However, due to a misunderstanding when the figures were reproduced, the raw figures were substituted for the seasonally adjusted figures and I was not aware of the change. The reason I was not aware is that I was attending a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Labour in Adelaide at the time the Press statement was being produced in my Department in Melbourne. The seasonally adjusted figure was, in fact, 2.6 hours. The original figure was 2.5 hours. 
I shall check with the Australian Statistician on this question and certainly give further consideration to it in the light of my discussions with him. 
-The Public Service Board is autonomous in matters of this kind. There is at least reasonable doubt as to whether the increase to which the honourable member referred falls within the guidelines of the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In those circumstances it is in accordance with the Government's wages policy that the decision be tested. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)1 wrote to the honourable member on 8 April 1976 in answer to his question of 31 March 1976  (Hansard,  p. 1166) and my letter included the following- 'Based on the latest available statistics prepared by the Commonwealth Statistician (estimated population as at 30 September 1975) and using the formula provided by section 10 of the Representation Act, New South Wales would be entitled to 44 Members of the House of 
Representatives, Victoria 34, Queensland 19, South Australia 12 and Western Australia 1 1 Members.' 
However, I would remind the honourable member that since I wrote to him the validity of certain statutory provisions on which these entitlement calculations were made has been challenged in the High Court, in an action wherein the plaintiff seeks a declaration that sections lA and 10 of the Representation Act 1905 are invalid. 
) Population statistics in respect of the Census of 30 June 1 976 are not yet available. 
As the relevant sections of the Representation Act 1905 are the subject of a High Court writ, it would not be appropriate to make calculations of this nature. 
Grants under Aged Persons Hostels Act  (Question No. 993) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The number of electors enrolled in each Electoral Division as at 27 August 1976 is set out in the attached table compiled by the Australian Electoral Office. 
On information furnished by the Australian Statistician it is anticipated that the population figures derived from the 1976 Census will be available about December 1976. 
I recall the occasion to which the honourable member refers and I pay tribute to him for his vigilance and concern on behalf of those particular constituents of his. It is typical of his concern for his electorate as a whole. I am informed in relation to this issue that the State 
Council of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union met on 6 September and after hearing the case put by the 1 1 constituents of the honourable member voted to remove the financial penalties which had been imposed by the Ballarat branch committee. I might say that the successful resolution of this case within the confines of the union movement supports the advice that I have been giving to other union members in a similar situation to those involved in this case, that is, to exercise fully their right to natural justice within the rules of the organisation to which they belong without in any way inhibiting their ultimate right to seek remedy in the Industrial Court. I am hopeful that the successful resolution of this case will result in a similarly successful conclusion in similar cases which at present are under consideration in the union movement. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957, 1 present the annual report on the operations and activities of the Commonwealth Police Force during the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Of course, it is not unfamiliar to have members of the Australian Labor Party in this House making speeches which have nothing whatever to do with the subject they have raised. They have done it again on this occasion. Unlike the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  I intend to speak on the matter that he has proposed to the House. The Opposition pretends that it is gravely concerned at the unemployment crisis in Australia. The first question we have to ask is: Who caused it? That is the first thing, and I will come back to it in a minute. The second thing is that I am fascinated by the use of the word 'perfunctory' in this matter for discussion. The Labor Party, of course, is very familiar with the word, so perhaps that is why it has used it. Certainly no other word could have expressed more accurately the attitude of the Labor Party as unemployment soared during its own term of mismanagement. This time last year unemployment was about 7000 higher than it is at present, once those in  ad hoc  temporary unemployment are excluded. At the end of May this year, compared with a year ago, there were 13 000 more people in the work force. 
The basic cause of unemployment in Australia is the fact that excessive wage demands have generated intolerable levels of inflation. The present high levels of unemployment, it must be emphasised, were basically established under the previous Government. Between 1949 and 1972 the highest figure ever recorded for unemployment was 2.3 per cent in 1961. Only in one other year did the figure exceed 2 per cent. Thus, during the 23 years of Liberal Government, Australia experienced virtually continuous full employment at a level which was the envy of the rest of the world, particularly as it was associated with what, by present day standards, was an extremely low rate of inflation. In December 1972, when the former Liberal Government left office, unemployment was 136 000. Three years later in 
December 1975 when the Labor Party went out of office unemployment had more than doubled to 328 000. Thus, by attacking the present level of unemployment the Opposition is in effect attacking the very problem which it created. In short, it is condemning its own maladministration. 
Essentially, the present unemployment can be traced back to the wage explosion that was permitted, if not actively encouraged, during the period 1973 to 1975 and particularly in the year 1974. The following table showing the annual rate of increase in average weekly earnings between 1970 and 1975 speaks for itself. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

<graphic href="100131197609155_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

-The foregoing table, however, presents only part of the picture. In addition to direct wage costs, the period 1972 to 1975 saw a massive increase in indirect or overhead labour costs- particularly arising from the granting of extra holidays and holiday loadings and of increased workers' compensation premiums. All these factors inevitably increase greatly the cost of employing additional units of labour. 
In simplest terms, excessive wage increases plus extension of indirect labour costs have led to labour progressively pricing itself out of the market. Increasingly it has become a commodity which more and more employers are finding it too difficult to afford. This is illustrated in a variety of ways. An example is international trade. Here the illustration is perhaps most clear. Wage cost increases in Australia have been, and are still continuing to be, substantially in excess of those experienced by most of our international trading partners. The result is that Australian costs are becoming increasingly out of line. This leads in turn to two serious consequences both of which reduce job opportunities and exacerbate unemployment. To begin with, import competing enterprises within Australia find it increasingly difficult to sell at profitable prices and either cease to absorb labour or, in the more acutely affected enterprises, begin retrenchments. Less obviously, but still with a disturbing impact on employment, Australian manufacturers find it more and more difficult to compete on the overseas markets and many indeed are arranging to manufacture outside Australia. 
They have no choice, as the honourable member for Wakefield has said. Thus, as a result of excessive labour costs, Australian industry is forced into the position not of exporting goods but of actually exporting jobs. 
Another illustration of the way in which labour is pricing itself out of the market is the preference for overtime rather than new recruitment of labour. Due to the combined effect of trade union pressures and the former Government's policies, the previous post-war overtimenew labour recruitment relationship has been reversed. In the immediate post-war period overtime rates rapidly increased compared with pre- 1939 conditions. In making overtime expensive employers were encouraged to increase their work force rather than engage in overtime. During the 1972 to 1975 period the rapid increase in the cost of workers' compensation premiums, payroll tax, holidays, holiday payments, etc., reversed that situation so that to a significant degree overtime is preferable to recruiting new labour. This trend is clearly evidenced by the fact that although unemployment has increased on a seasonally adjusted basis for most of 1976, overtime has also risen. 
The combined effect of excessive labour costs and the disappearance of the post-war era of full employment brought about in the term of the Labor Government during the period 1972 to 1975 has entirely altered the relative balance of power within the labour market. In the present situation workers can be divided into 2 classesthe 'safe' and the 'vulnerable', that is, those who run no risk of becoming unemployed, such as public servants, academics and some skilled metal tradesmen, and those very vulnerable to unemployment, such as process workers in import competing manufacturing industries and those engaged in export industries. Every wage rise gained by 'safe' workers, by raising the cost of labour, encourages employers to economise and to retrench or to refrain from recruiting more workers. All wage increases in the current climate of unemployment can be seen as the haves getting more, largely at the expense of the have nots among the workers themselves. 
It is in the context of 'safe' and 'vulnerable' workers that the connection between wages and unemployment becomes clearest. Unless wage costs are reduced it becomes difficult, if not impossible, for industry and Government to absorb additional workers. At the same time, however, every wage decision which increases labour costs reduces the ability of employers to absorb labour. Thus, wage increases, while benefiting 'safe' workers, increases the number of employees in the vulnerable category, that is, those whose jobs are at risk, or worse still, those who will be retrenched and those out of work who will have difficulty in finding new employment. Looked at in its right perspective, wage increases are becoming in the present environment more and more a device whereby the have groups among the wage and salary earners are protecting their positions at the expense of the have nots, not only among wage and salary earners but also among self-employed groups, particularly those in rural areas who are dependent solely on what the world is prepared to pay them for their products. 
It is important to stress the basic economic truth that unemployment, inflation and wage restraint are totally interrelated. Where wage restraint is lacking, as was the case between 1973 and 1975, the increases in labour cost pressures inevitably lead to a rise in unemployment. In fact, they generate unemployment through 2 different mechanisms- one direct and the other indirect. The direct mechanism, which has already been elaborated on, is through labour pricing itself out of the market. I have talked at length about that. The indirect mechanism results from the generation socially and economically of unacceptable levels of inflation and an urgent pressure on governments of all political complexions to take counter measures. Counter measures against inflation, as the Labor Government found after mid- 1974- apparently to its surprise- inevitably involved restrictive financial policies. Inevitably then the wage explosion of 1974 generated the unemployment of 1975 and of 1976. I stress again that unless a government, of any political complexion, is prepared to tolerate South American-type inflation, policies of restraint become inevitable and necessary. If the previous Government is to be blamed, it is to be blamed not for taking these restrictive measures but for its financial policy which permitted and, indeed, encouraged the wage explosion of 1 974. 
It made it inevitable, as the honourable member for Wakefield points out. That has lessons for the future. It is important to sheet home the real blame for the past, present and the immediate future level of unemployment. It is due ultimately to excessive wage increases and these in turn arise from the selfish, if not anti-social, behaviour of militant trade unionists who are prepared to put the economic welfare and the job opportunities of their fellow workers at risk in a narrow minded attempt to increase their own real income. 
Government policies of restraint, as the previous Government found out, are forced upon any responsible administration as a result of the inflationary impact of runaway wage costs. Thus, the real culprits for the present level of unemployment are all those people, both within and to some extent beyond the trade union movement, who insist on wage increases regardless of their adverse impact. I take up the interjection of the honourable member for Wakefield who referred to some articles written by a well known socialist,  Mr Johnson,  in some English newspapers about a year ago. He pointed out that the pursuit of socialist objectives by the means I have just described destroys any hope of attaining those objectives, whether or not honourable members agree with them. 
In the present environment particularly, job opportunities are integrally related to wage costs. Excessive wage costs led to the present unemployment and only a reduction in such excessive wage costs will lead, even after some time lag, to a reduction in the present level of unemployment. Any suggestions of some easy way out, particularly by a massive injection of public funds, not only is economically unsound but also is doing a total disservice to the community. As we have said often in the past, the way to recovery is likely to be difficult, particularly in view of the financial laxity of the former regime. The first requirement is to obtain this reduction in inflation. Essentially, that means reducing the Budget deficit and pursuing appropriate wages policies. We have done these things. The Australian Labor Party refused to do them. We have given encouragement to business because three out of 4 jobs in Australia are in private enterprise. We have done so by means such as the 40 per cent investment allowance and a start on the introduction of cost value stock accounting. For obvious ideological reasons- ignoring economic realities- the Labor Party refused to institute either of these measures. We have introduced full indexation of personal income tax in one year and an entirely new and imaginative scheme greatly to increase family allowances, to put more money back into the pockets of the people who earn that money. The Labor Party was not prepared to do either of these things. We have just announced another new initiative, relocation assistance for those people who cannot find employment in their present locations. 
The economic debris of the Labor years in government will take time to clean up. The Labor Party set Australia on the road to the world's economic scrapheap. It may have claimed ignorance and inexperience then but it cannot do so now. Yet, it is quite clear from the speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand that it would be prepared to do it all again. The Australian people have shown in unmistakable terms that they do not want this to happen. We will not let it happen. 
-The history of this issue goes back a long way- some 10 years- to when an agreement was reached between the parties, including the Australian Council of Trade Unions, on the maximum weight of wool bales, which was established in modern terminology at 204 kilograms. The House will remember that this matter was the subject of a very long and damaging dispute towards the end of last year and early this year. Also involved were claims by the Storemen and Packers Union for a 35-hour week and improvements in various terms and conditions of employment. This dispute really put Australia's trade in wool at risk. It did serious damage to our reputation amongst our trading partners, particularly our major customer, Japan, and threatened to disrupt the whole of the world trade in wool. Eventually the issue went before Commissioner Heagney of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission.  Dr Ferguson  conducted another inquiry in relation to the health aspects. 
As I understand it, the conclusion reached by those inquiries was that the maximum weight should remain at 204 kilograms but that if people had difficulty in handling bales of a heavy weight in stores they should be able to ask for assistance in the handling of such bales. That seems to be a very sensible and reasonable conclusion to reach. Indeed, I can recall having had to ask for a bit of help myself many times when the stack in the wool room became a bit high. I would urge members of the Storemen and Packers Union to think of the welfare of their fellow workers in the present circumstances. Hundreds- perhaps thousands- of their fellow workers could be stood down as a result of any further dispute. Finally there is the damage that could be done to Australia's major industry- the wool industry- should the decision of the Commissioner and the expert health inquiry not be accepted. It is a matter of great concern to the Government. I am hopeful that good sense will prevail in the ranks of the union. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Government Delegation to the 60th Session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva in June 1975. Appended to the report are the texts of the following instruments adopted by the 60th Session of the Conference: Convention No. 141 concerning Organisations of Rural Workers and Their Role in Economic and Social Development, Recommendation No. 149 concerning Organisations of Rural Workers and Their role in Economic and Social Development, Convention No. 142 concerning Vocational Guidance and Vocational Training in the Development of Human 
Resources, Recommendation No. 150 concerning Vocational Guidance and Vocational Training in the Development of Human Resources, Convention No. 143 concerning Migrations in Abusive Conditions and the Promotion of Equality of Opportunity and Treatment of Migrant Workers, and Recommendation No. 151 concerning Migrant Workers. 
These 6 instruments have been referred to the appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities for examination and comment. This preliminary examination indicates that, while there is compliance with many of the provisions of the instruments, Australia's law and practice do not comply in all respects. In the light of this, immediate ratification of the Conventions does not appear to be practicable. However, in accordance with normal practice, the position regarding compliance with Conventions Nos 141, 142 and 143 will be kept under examination with a view to possible ratification in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. It is a matter which is of great concern to the Government. I have asked my Department to do all it can within existing programs and resources to stimulate employment opportunities for young people and to assist them in every way to find employment. The need for additional Government initiatives is being closely examined by my Department within the context of the Government's overall economic strategy. 
I understand that the Acting Principal of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology offered the use of its facilities for a public meeting which was held on 3 1 August 1976. The meeting considered the problems of youth unemployment. My Department was represented at the meeting. 
Yes. The honourable member can be assured that appropriate initiatives taken by the community will receive ready cooperation and assistance from my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 6 1st ( 1976) Session of the International Labour Conference adopted 2 instruments concerning tripartite consultation: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers agreed in 1973 that unratified ILO Conventions involving State jurisdiction and warranting further consideration should be divided into the following order of priority: 
top priority- where the aim is to ratify as quickly as possible and includes Conventions which deal with questions of very important principle. 
priority- where ratification at an early stage is the objective though considerable action may be required including new policy initiatives. 
keep under review- where ratification is a longer term objective and there may be extensive technical problems to be overcome. 
International labour matters including ILO Conventions is a standing item on the agenda of the twice yearly meetings of Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers. As the honourable member will be aware, the Ministers' meetings are the third tier of the Commonwealth/State consultative machinery on ILO matters and the Ministers consider recommendations which come forward from the other 2 tiers of the machinery: the technical officers (ie ILO action officers) and Permanent Heads of the Commonwealth and State Departments. 
The consultative machinery has devoted its attention principally to those Conventions allocated to the top priority category. In 1973 the Ministers agreed that the following Conventions should be accorded top priority for ratification: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer the the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) On 2 July 1976 my Department sent a telex to TAA, Ansett Airlines, East- West Airlines, Airlines of 
New South Wales and MacRobertson Miller Airlines advising them of the Remuneration Tribunal's Determination in respect of class of air travel for members of Parliament and their spouses. 
As it was not possible to issue first class parliamentary travel warrants to members immediately, the airlines were requested to issue first class tickets where applicable on the existing warrants. 
The Remuneration Tribunal made no determination or recommendation on the class of travel by senior public servants. The change in entitlements for some public servants followed a decision by the Government. 
The Public Service Board did not inform either of the major airlines of the changed travel entitlements of some public servants nor did my Department. This accords with previous practice. 
I have no knowledge of when the airlines started allocating first-class tickets to members of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No data are, in fact, available for the specific years mentioned in the honourable member's question with the exception of 1947 and for each year since 1964. However, information is available from census data for the years 1911, 1921, 1933, 1947, 1954 and 1961; in addition, the Australian Statistician's quarterly labour force survey provides relevant data for each year since 1964. 
The following table sets out the percentage of married women among employed persons for the years most closely corresponding to the honourable member's question. The number of employed persons includes those who are selfemployed since these cannot be separated for married women from 1964 onwards: 
Table 1: Percentage of Married Women among Employed Persons in the Australian Workforce: 1911, 1921, 1933, 1947, 1954, 1961 and 1964 to 1975 inclusive. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. They are not usually available in respect of parliamentary electorates. 
The Electoral Division of Hughes, in fact, comprises part of the Employment Office areas of Caringbah and Wollongong and a minor part of the Goulburn area. At the end of July 1976 the numbers of persons registered as unemployed in the first two mentioned Employment Offices were as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No part. 
Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act  (Question No. 1062) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) Most departments have substantial administrative offices located outside Canberra (including in some cases central offices). Whether these offices are required to be located as at present is a matter for judgment in the light of factors including administrative efficiency, economy, ease of access by and to the public, policies on the location of Government employment, the interests of staff and the availability of accommodation. The appropriateness of the location of departmental offices in Canberra and elsewhere is presently under consideration along with other aspects of government administration. 
All Commonwealth departments. 
The Department does not have readily available the detailed information sought and I am reluctant to authorise the expenditure of time and money required to provide it. 
Project Enrichment Pre-school: Bourke  (Question No. 891) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Between end-June 1975 and end- June 1976 the number of unemployed persons registered at the Hurstville Office of the Commonwealth Employment Service decreased from 3295 to 2586. The numbers registered at the Campsie employment office also fell from 3483 to 2535 during the same period. 
The declines noted at these two offices were against the national trend where the total number of persons registered at the same points in time rose from 245 975 to 265 25 1 . 
I would like to point out, in partial explanation of the reasons for the decrease in the 2 offices referred to, that there are some 190 offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service whose figures comprise the total for Australia at any particular point in time. Naturally, variations occur between individual offices over different points in time. These are no more than indicative of different economic and sometimes demographic characteristics of the areas concerned. 
In point of fact, the number of persons registered as unemployed at 10 other offices of the CES in New South Wales also declined against the national trend over this period of time. In Victoria, the numbers registered for employment decreased between end-June 1975 and end-June 1976 in a total of 23 offices; in Queensland, 11 offices; in South Australia, 9 offices; in Western Australia, 2 offices, and in Northern Territory, one office declined as compared to a rise in the national trend. In addition, the total number registered in the Melbourne metropolitan area as a whole and in Adelaide as a whole and, in fact, for South Australia as a whole decreased against the national trend over this period of time. 
Thus, without conducting an expensive and timeconsuming economic analysis of the 2 areas mentioned, I am not able to answer the honourable member's question as to why the 2 areas about which he sought information also showed this deviation from the national trend. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Electoral Office strives to ensure that all eligible persons, not only those who become naturalised Australian citizens, apply for enrolment as soon as they become eligible to do so. 
One of the most effective means of ensuring such enrolment has been found to be the Habitation Review procedure. Where the density of population is sufficient, an index, with habitations listed in street order, is maintained in Divisional Offices. In these areas Review Officers are employed by the Australian Electoral Office to carry out a door-to-door check of the rolls, if possible, annually. In sparsely settled areas, Electoral Agents are recruited to furnish information required in the maintenance of the rolls. 
In respect of persons granted citizenship, advice is obtained from time to time from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. With the co-operation of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, electoral claim cards are customarily distributed at naturalisation ceremonies. 
Furthermore, subject to expenditure constraints, Australian Electoral Office staff attend at some citizenship ceremonies on request for the purpose of assisting with the franchise aspects. 
This information is not available. 
I am aware that the Prices Justification Tribunal is conducting an inquiry into the stevedoring firm, James Patrick and Company Pty Ltd. The House may remember that on 6 May last in my second reading speech relating to the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Amendment Bill I indicated to the House that, provided the industry could develop a suitable framework which would satisfy the Government that proper restraints could be exercised and an improving climate for industrial relations established, the Government would not continue its declining and limited regulatory role in the industry. Since that time I have been having continuing consultations with all parties in the industry, and I hope te be in a position shortly to make a statement to the House indicating the point which those consultations have reached. 
In my statement on 6 May I highlighted the Government's concern at the costs which could be imposed on the Australian community by this industry. I mentioned specifically that I felt there should be some mechanism for cost surveillance of the industry. I advocated at that time that that matter could be a proper subject for inquiry by both the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. I understand that the Trade Practices Commission is now looking into the question of wharf handling charges and the Prices Justification Tribunal is looking into the case which has been referred to by the honourable member. I am delighted that the action I advocated on 6 May, which has been supported by my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, has exposed to public gaze some of the costs involved in this industry. That was precisely the objective that the Government had in mind and it may be that as a result of its inquiries into this company the Prices Justification Tribunal will consider extending its inquiries. In any case, whatever comes out of this or any subsequent inquiry will be considered carefully by the Government in relation to any future action proposed for the industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The figure of nearly 34 per cent quoted in the question is derived from a recent survey of the Australian Bureau of Statistics-Persons Looking For Work, May 1976 (Preliminary) (Reference No. 6.56). However, the survey finding was not strictly that 34 per cent of all people looking for work had been unemployed 6 months or more. 
The survey revealed that 82 700 persons looking for work in May 1976 had experienced, during the previous twelve months, periods of unemployment totalling six months or more. The number of persons who, in May 1976, had at that date been unemployed for six months or more was 34 400 or 2 1.9 per cent of all persons unemployed at that time. I refer here to data obtained from the ABS publication- The 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to this recent decision by the Industrial Court which relates to a case heard in an Adelaide magistrate's court along the lines outlined by the honourable member in which a union attempted to fine one of its members for working under the terms of an award some 2 years ago. The magistrate 's court found in favour of the unionist concerned-  Mr Aylen.  The union then appealed to the Industrial Court which upheld the decision of the magistrate. This case does highlight the protection afforded by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to individual unionists against actions which might be taken against them by the union or members of it in relation to various activities of the union or union members. 
In addition to section 188 of the Act which, as the honourable member says, refers to a union member working to the terms of an award, I also draw the attention of the House to sections 140 and 141 of the Act which provide protection to individual members against union rules or actions imposed under the rules which may be oppressive, unreasonable or unjust. If a union member feels that by taking an action under these provisions he would suffer financial hardship, it is of course open to him to approach the Attorney-General for financial assistance to pursue his case. These provisions have been written into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act over many years. They provide very important protection to individual people against actions which may be taken against them. I commend the honourable member for drawing the attention of the House to some of these provisions and the considerable protection they afford to people who believe that unjust action has been taken against them. 
-My attention has been drawn to this matter. The vacancies at the Ford Co. are for assembly line workers who have to be adult males and physically fit. It is a type of job which in the past, when we had large or reasonably large migrant intakes, was to a large extent filled by migrants. A further relevant factor is that the unemployment situation in Victoria has been steadily improving over recent months. The unemployment level in that State now is considerably lower than it was a year ago. Furthermore, actual shortages of labour are starting to appear in the metal, wood and furniture trades in that State. The Commonwealth Employment Service has been in constant touch with the company in an endeavour to fill the vacancies, but it has not yet been able to do so. This is yet another example of an increasing number of cases that are coming to the attention of the Government. There is apparently conflicting evidence of employers in areas with relatively high numbers of people registered for employment being demonstably unable to get vacant positions filled. It is for that and other reasons, as I announced some time ago, that a complete review is to be undertaken of the operations and procedures of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I anticipate that that review will be under way in the very near future. 
in reply- In the time available I would like to make a few comments on various issues which have been raised by all honourable members on both sides of the House who have taken part in this debate. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  referred to the Regional Employment Development scheme and I remind him that the RED scheme was terminated by the Labor Government last year some months before it went out of office at a time when the number registered for employment, including those under the RED scheme, was higher than it is this year.  His  main criticism seemed to be that there was no RED scheme this year when unemployment is at its present level. I merely remind the House that it was his Government which cut out the scheme when unemployment was at a level higher than it is now. 
He then went on to refer to the National Employment and Training scheme and the fact that there were some 14 000 people, I think he said, under the NEAT scheme at its peak, or what one might term the height of the abuses of that scheme. Certainly the previous Government moved to contain the worst of those abuses before it went out of office and the numbers under that scheme then tumbled by half in 4 or 5 months. When the Labor Government went out of office there were some 7000 people in the scheme and I am pleased to tell the House that the number in the NEAT scheme now is considerably more than that and that we are getting a very good response to the increased subsidies which are now made available for in-plant training. 
The honourable member also mentioned what he felt was an undesirable thing happening in relation to the increased subsidies recently announced for young people getting special training under the NEAT scheme. He suggest that employers were dismissing people in order to get the cheap subsidised employment. I agree with him that it is a highly undesirable thing if that happens and if the honourable member can provide specific examples of that I shall be happy to have them investigated. 
He also referred to the Commonwealth Employment Service and the great pressure under which that Service has been put as a result of the increased number registered for employment and looking for work, and the increased work load under the NEAT scheme. He referred to the difficulties the Service has experienced in this regard. I am well aware of those difficulties and of the tremendously difficult problems under which the CES has had to work. That is why among other things I have announced the inquiry into the CES and its terms of reference and I hope to announce within the next few days the name of the person who will be undertaking the inquiry. 
The honourable member also referred to the scrapping of the career guide for school leavers. I can assure him that that is not so. In those States where such a career guide has been produced before- that does not apply in all States because in some States it is done at State level- for this coming year we will be producing a career guide, though perhaps it will not be in quite as good a presentational form as it was. I am referring here to Tasmania particularly. Following the very forceful representations of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and others there will be a career reference guide produced. As I said, perhaps it will not be in quite the same form as it has been but it will be produced. Thereafter we intend producing a national career guide for young people with each State having a supplement to it. We believe that this will provide a first class career reference system to operate from next year. 
-This year those States which have produced a guide in the past will still be producing one. Next year there will be a national guide plus State supplements. 
The honourable member also referred to discrimination committees. I think that I answered a question asked by the honourable member in the House. Finding chairmen for these committees, including the national committee, has taken longer than I would have liked and longer than I had expected. But I am on the point nowgenuinely within a few days I would hope- of announcing the appointments to all of those committees. I am anxious that they should get busy on what has become a considerable backlog of work. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  made a most sensible and thoughtful speech on the restructuring problems of Australian manufacturing industry, and the need for some permanent machinery for retraining. Some interesting suggestions were made. 
We have already done more about it than the Labor Party ever did. We have shown more imagination in our training scheme than the Labor Party ever did. We are at present engaged with the States in upgrading apprentice training in Australia to make it more relevant to what are rapidly changing circumstances. The honourable member for Balaclava referred to what is one of the major problems, namely, the need to get acceptance of adult gained qualifications in the trade union movement. I would hope that there would be a more enlightened attitude to that appearing in the immediate time ahead. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  referred to some self-help youth employment organisations. I welcome the efforts made by such organisations. I remind them that the services of the Commonwealth Employment Service are there to help them. The CES would be only too pleased to give its services and add its knowledge to these organisations. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  referred specifically to the problems of the stevedoring industry, and more particularly to the problem of payments for idle time and the accumulated deficit. He said that he was worried that the taxpayer would probably be called upon to fund this deficit. I can assure him that the Government does not intend that to happen, although it may be necessary for some underwriting of the accumulated deficit to be undertaken. But we envisage that deficit being met, as it should be, from within the industry itself. The honourable member drew attention to what are acknowledged to be really major problems on the Australian waterfront. It will require patience and tolerance on the part of all parties to get a proper solution that is fair to those in the industry and to the Australian taxpayer. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  referred to the increasing mechanisation of Australian industry and that as a result there would be less people in work. I merely make the point that people are required to make the machines themselves and that technology provides jobs. Perhaps it provides jobs of a different kind but certainly history has it that techonological improvements provide jobs that almost inevitably require a higher or different degree of skill to those which the machines themselves replace. He also referred to the Regional Employment Development scheme. I remind him again that the Labor Party abolished the scheme and that the unemployment level during the time his party was in power increased from 136 000 to 328 000 people. The honourable member expressed concern for young people. I share that concern but it is a concern that he failed to express when his party was in government. Unemployment among young people was 80 000 when Labor came to power and 152 000 when it went out of power. I did not hear the same expressions of concern from him then. He referred to the shortage of skilled tradesmen. I have already mentioned the need to increase apprentice training. I remind the honourable member that during the time his Government was in office the cost of training apprentices rose by something like 40 per cent. Of course, as a result of that rise, employers have been more reluctant to take on apprentices. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  commented on a very interesting survey in his electorate, drawing attention to the fact that areas with relatively high figures for those registered for employment also had the conflicting situation where employers were unable to fill vacancies. This is yet another example of a situation to which I have referred at question time in this House. Again, it draws attention to the need for a review of the operations and procedures of the CES. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  mainly spoke about the RED scheme. I do pay tribute to the honourable member for Robertson for the assiduousness with which he pursued projects in his electorate when this scheme was in operation. He has made, I understand, an interesting analysis of this scheme when referring to some of its pluses and minuses. I will certainly be glad to have a look at that when he has finished it. Unfortunately, it fell to my lot to inherit the mess that was left and the mess that had to be cleaned up with the winding-up of the RED scheme. I think that the honourable member for Robertson has very much underestimated the problems, the difficulties and the shortcomings of the scheme. 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O 'Keeffe)  rightly drew attention to the huge increase in the numbers of those registered for employment under the Labor Government. I appreciate the honourable member's comments on behalf of the CES in Maitland in his electorate and his support for the new schemes under the NEAT system for subsidising the employment of young people and the relocation scheme to enable people to move from areas where they cannot get a job to areas where job vacancies are available to them. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  referred to the structural problems again in the work force and the special problems of provincial areas. I agree with him about the special difficulties involved there. That again is one of the reasons we have instituted a full-scale inquiry into the relationship between education and training and the transferring from the educational process to the work place. The honourable member for Corio also made reference to the terms under which unemployment benefits are paid. I merely remind him that proper appeal provisions are available for those who feel that they have been unfairly treated. If he has specific examples of those who he believes have not had proper acknowledgment of their problems in that respect I will be happy to investigate them for him. 
The debate itself has illustrated the diversity and complexity of this portfolio. I think most honourable members would agree on that point, even though they may not agree with everything else that has been said tonight. It is a difficult portfolio, especially in times such as these. I appreciate some of the constructive suggestions which have come out of this debate and I assure the honourable members who have made them that they will receive due consideration by me and by my Department. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development 
Proposed expenditure, $61,769,000. 
Department of Construction 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 88,273,000. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: (a), (b) and (c) Statistics regarding the removal of names from the Commonwealth Electoral Roll are not maintained in terms of the detailed breakdown sought by the honourable member. 
The general position is that an elector's name is not removed from the Roll solely because of marriage or failure to vote. However, where information suggests that an elector has left his or her enrolled address, (and there is no information which suggests that the elector is still resident within the Subdivision), formal follow-up procedures including notification to the elector at the enrolled address are followed in order to maintain the integrity of the Roll. If these steps do not confirm that the elector is still a resident of the Subdivision, then his or her name is removed from the Roll for that Subdivision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The figures sought on apprenticeship training are set out in the following tables. They relate to the fiscal years 1974-75 and 1975-76 as the States record apprenticeship statistics on this basis. Figures covering public sector employment of apprentices relate only to those employed by 
The Minister for Administrative Services has supplied the following information: 
Accommodation costs for leases terminated or renegotiated in regard to diplomatic, consular, immigration and trade posts closed during 1 976 are as follows: ' 
When were they appointed. 
What are their terms of reference. 
When will they report. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Present  Hansard  annual subscription rates (including postage) are: 
Since inheriting the winding up of the RED scheme I have encountered many difficulties and problems such as those outlined by the honourable member for Melbourne. To the best of my knowledge, the honourable member has not brought this specific problem to my attention. I am not aware of it. If he does bring it to my attention I will see that he gets a written answer as soon as possible. 
-The extension of the National Employment and Training scheme to provide a much higher subsidy to employers who employ last year's school leavers has not yet had time to appear in the figures for the NEAT scheme, but I can say that the policy of the government to direct the emphasis on the NEAT scheme to inplant training already is having a very significant effect. In the month before last the number undergoing training increased by some 600, the greatest single monthly increase yet. Last month the number undergoing training under the NEAT scheme increased by almost 1200 or double the increase for the month before which itself was a record. This clearly reflects the success of the Government's scheme in increasing the subsidy to employers for in-plant training. As to the specific question raised by the honourable member in relation to young people, as I said earlier there has not been time for the success of the Government's initiatives to be reflected in the figures. However, in view of the substantial and record increase in the number of in-plant trainees under the NEAT scheme even before the recent increase in subsidy to employers who employ young people, we would expect an equally encouraging result from that source too. Certainly inquiries to my Department indicate a very great interest on the part of employers in the scheme and we will be monitoring it very closely in the months ahead. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to honour a longstanding moral obligation of the Commonwealth Government to the long term Asian residents of the Territory of Christmas Island. Honourable members will be aware that the only commercial activity on Christmas Island is the extraction and export of rock phosphate and phosphate dust. The life of the usable phosphate deposits- at present rates of extraction and with existing technologyis about another 20 years. When that industry ends, there will be no economic future for the Island's residents. There are no alternative industries which could reasonably be expected to provide them with a livelihood. As a result, successive .Commonwealth Governments have accepted the obligation to provide some form of resettlement assistance to those residents of Christmas Island who have given long and valuable service to Australia in working the phosphate deposits on the Island. 
I point out that 417 of these long term residents are Australian citizens already. The others are eligible to apply for Australian citizenship. It is a matter of simple justice that the Commonwealth Government accepts its obligations to them. This is a Government for all Australians, no matter where they may be. As honourable members will recall, there are no indigenous inhabitants of Christmas Island. Asian workers brought mainly from Singapore have been employed in the Island's phosphate industry since mining began in 1 899. Most of the Island's present Asian resident population came to the Island since World War II or were born there. Since 1 965 almost all workers brought to the Island have come on a restricted term basisusually 3 years- and have been repatriated to their homelands on completion of their term by their employer as part of their normal employment arrangements. 
Late in 1972 the McMahon Government approved a resettlement policy for the long term Asian residents of Christmas Island. This promise was endorsed by the Labor Government in 1973, and announced by the then Minister for External Territories,  Mr Morrison,  in April 1 973.  His  successors promised introduction of the scheme as quickly as possible to these residents a number of times. It is a matter of deep regret that despite the promises the scheme did not eventuate during the years of the Labor Government. The delay following the initial announcement has caused the residents of the Island great uncertainty and extensive distress. The extent of this concern was evidenced during the visit of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to Christmas Island in April of this year. The residents of the Island were clearly sceptical that the promises would ever be honoured. 
At the time of the Minister's visit he gave an undertaking that enabling legislation would be introduced as soon as the necessary amendment to the Christmas Island Agreement could be formally agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments, and the Parliament. Agreement has been reached with New Zealand. The formal documents were signed on 8 September 1976. This Bill now seeks the approval of that Agreement by the Parliament. Once the Parliament ratifies the Agreement, work on the resettlement scheme can begin. Australia's obligation to the people who have provided her with valuable and long service will begin to be repaid. As I said earlier, the phosphate industry on Christmas Island is likely to end in 20 years. 
The existing Christmas Island Agreement of 195 8 provides for establishment of a special fund to meet the obligations on Australia when the industry ceases. The fund is built up by a levy on each tonne of phosphate rock exported from the Island. It now amounts to approximately $4.5m. Under the existing Act, however, this fund cannot be used until the phosphate industry ends. This would mean prolonging introduction of any form of resettlement scheme for probably 20 years. The Government not only believes this would be unfair, it would also be a breach of the promises made to the long term residents of the Island. As a result of this amendment to the Agreement, it will be possible to use the money in the special fund progressively to finance a scheme for the voluntary resettlement of the long term Asian residents. 
At the moment there are about 1300 residents of the Island eligible to benefit from the scheme, most of whom wish to settle in Australia. Very few, if any, are likely to choose to settle in other places such as Singapore and Malaysia. Resettlement will, I stress, be a voluntary and gradual process. It is expected that the scheme will provide for about 300 people- workers and their families- to move from the island each year. This will ensure their proper integration into the Australian community and also ensure that there is no disruption of the Island. As residents leave they will be replaced by restricted-term workers from Malaysia and Singapore who will return to their homelands on completion of their term of employment on the Island. The resettlement scheme will provide a  resettlement  allowance, free fares and other assistance such as scholarships for further education and training. 
The Government will also assist the resettlers in finding employment and housing. The actual level of assistance at any one time will be negotiated as necessary with New Zealand. Every effort will be made to ensure that those resettling are properly equipped to fit into the mainland community. Some 450 residents of Christmas Island have already resettled privately in Australia, principally in Western Australia. Many of these have gone to Katanning while others have gone to the mining areas of the north west of Western Australia where they appear to have settled in extremely well. I am confident the Christmas Island residents who take pan in this scheme will be similarly accepted by their local communities. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-Of course the high rates of unemployment, particularly in non-metropolitan areas of Australia, cause the Government great concern. Unfortunately the problem is not confined to the areas the honourable member mentioned. It is due to 2 basic causes. The first is the difficult circumstances being experienced by many primary industries, through seasonal factors and the prices obtained for their products. The second is the overall economic and inflationary situation in Australia. Until the overall inflation rate in Australia is brought down to one which makes us more competitive with our trading partners we can expect no permanent or substantial improvement in the situation which the honourable member mentioned. As honourable members know, all the Government's policies are directed to that end. There are no short term solutions to this problem but we are keeping the high rates of unemployment in specific areas under constant review. 
For the information of honourable members I present the election statistics for each State showing the voting within each subdivision in relation to the Senate election 1975 and the general election of members of the House of Representatives 1975. Each member will receive a copy of the appropriate State volume. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that the tables of statistics have been redesigned and additional information has been provided. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of the full set of these papers have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 15 May last year a Bill was introduced into the House to implement changes in the long service leave conditions of Commonwealth Government staff. Debate adjourned and did not resume before the last elections. The Government has considered the content of that Bill and has decided to introduce a new Bill which proceeds with the changes, with the exception of the previous Government's proposed increase in the rate of long service leave accrual. A very significant change such as an increase in accrual rate could set an unduly generous standard which could lead to pressure on other employers in the community to match it. I need not emphasise the difficulties inherent in such a course in present economic circumstances. The remaining changes, on the other hand, are generally supported by practices elsewhere and are not substantial in terms of cost. Most of them were agreed to and announced by the LiberalCountry Party Government in the latter part of 1972. 
Passage of the Bill will mean that a single Act will cover long service leave conditions of permanent and temporary  staff of the Australian Public Service and of most Commonwealth authorities, thus providing a uniform code. For this reason, repeal of the separate long service leave provisions for permanent officers under the Public Service Act is being proposed in a Public Service Amendment Bill which I will presently introduce. A significant provision in the Bill is the extension of long service leave to part time employees. Provision is also made for payment in lieu of long service leave after one year's service on cessation due to age retirement, ill health, retrenchment or death. Other changes are recognition of prior service with local government bodies, payment in lieu of long service leave as a right and payment to the estate on death where no payment is made to dependants. 
Since the introduction of the Bill last year, Papua New Guinea has become independent. This Bill protects the long service leave rights of persons who were in public employment in Papua New Guinea prior to independence, who worked for the independent state of Papua New Guinea after independence and who then entered, or in the future will enter, Commonwealth employment. The Bill provides for the changes to be retrospective to 1 January 1973. This is in recognition of legitimate expectations arising from past public announcements and the Bill introduced last year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As I said in my second reading speech on the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1976, permanent officers in the Australian Public Service are covered by that Bill. The Public Service Amendment Bill 1976 therefore repeals the Public Service Act provisions for officers relating to long service leave. Clause 3 of the Bill amends section 47E of the Public Service Act to protect the sick leave rights of persons who were in public employment in Papua New Guinea prior to independence, remain there after independence and then enter Commonwealth employment. Clause 5 of the Bill provides for payment in lieu of recreation leave to the estate of a deceased officer where no payment is made to dependants and the provision is retrospective to 1 January 1973. This is consistent with similar long service leave provisions in the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. 
There are some other minor amendments of a consequential nature arising from the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Bill.Schedule 1 to the Bill repeals Schedules 1 and 2 of the Public Service Act, which list departments and offices of Permanent Head respectively, and substitutes new Schedules which take account of recent changes in administrative arrangements. In Schedule 2 amendments of the Act are also made by the insertion, as appropriate, of the words 'the Commonwealth' in substitution for the word 'Australia'. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
All members of the Parliament are, I am sure, committed to democratic control of trade unions and employer organisations. The cornerstone of democratic control is membership participation. The essential question is how to provide for the fullest participation of membership in a manner which recognises the structural diversity of organisations. In 1973, the then Minister for Labour, the honourable Clyde Cameron, introduced amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which had the effect of requiring the election of the holder of each office in an organisation by direct vote of the appropriate section of the membership. An exception from this requirement was permitted in relation to those offices of a part-time nature on an organisation's federal committee of management where the rules of the organisation provided, before the commencement of the amendment, a form of election other than by direct vote. Organisations were allowed a period of 3 years to bring their rules into conformity with the Act. That period expires on 13 November this year. 
The fact is, however, that direct election is not, in all situations, a guarantee of proper democratic control. For example, direct voting may result, in an organisation which has a substantial proportion of its total membership in one branch, in the smaller branches having no representation on the management committee. Since the amendment of the Act in 1973, there has been widespread public discussion and the development of active lobbies for and against direct elections. I have received numerous representations as had, I believe, my predecessors. It is clear that there are deep divisions on the issue of how membership control is best asserted. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the Government has taken account of a wide spectrum of opinion in deciding upon the course of action it now proposes. The solution which has been decided upon represents, in the Government's view, the most appropriate and most workable solution overall. In a matter as contentious as this, no approach will meet with universal acclaim. But I am confident that the merits of this Bill are evident and will meet with wide support. The amendments proposed will now give organisations a choice in the manner by which they elect their officers, whether full time or part time. Offices, the duties of which are full time in nature, may be elected by direct vote of the appropriate section of the rank and file. Alternatively, the organisation may choose a one-tier collegiate system; that is, a system whereby a conference or council is elected by direct vote of the appropriate section of the rank and file membership and that conference or council elects from its members the fulltime officers. 
In relation to offices, the duties of which are not full time in nature, the position whereby organisations may adopt a direct election, onetier or a multiple-tier system of collegiate election, for example, a system whereby the conference or council which is elected by direct vote may elect from its members another body which then elects from its members the part-time officers, will be restored. This type of situation operated prior to 1973. Where the rules of organisations are not already in conformity with the new requirements, organisations will be permitted a period of 2 years from the date of operation of the amendments to do so. If at the end of that period an organisation has not made the necessary alterations to its rules, the Industrial Registrar, after inviting the organisations to consult with him on the matter, will be able to make the alterations. 
As I have indicated, the Bill distinguishes between full-time and part-time offices. Holders of full-time offices generally play a key role in the formulation of policy as well as being responsible for the implementation of policy decisions and for the management of the day-to-day affairs of the organisation. There will be agreement that persons exercising such functions should not be permitted to become organisationally remote from the membership. The Government believes that either direct election or a one-tier collegiate electoral system proposed for full-time offices will reduce the chances of this occurring and is, at the same time, consistent with the principle of fullest participation by members. In both cases, there is a directness, or nexus, between the exercise of the individual member's vote and the election of full-time officers, to make effective participation by individual members a reality. Of course it is essential that the nature or composition of the college be truly representative of the membership. The provisions of the Act in section 140 (1) (c)- that the rules of an organisation may not impose conditions which are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust- and the associated regulation 1 15 will continue to provide the basis for members to enforce the representative nature of any such electoral college as may exist or become established. 
The conditions referred to in relation to fulltime offices do not apply with the same force in the case of part-time offices. At the same time the arrangements which organisations choose for the election of part-time officers will still be subject to review by the Industrial Court upon application by an aggrieved member. The Bill also proposes that the Act be amended to delete from the definition of 'Office' in section 4 of the Act those positions the duties of which are substantially similar to positions for which elections are required to be conducted, and positions which have duties substantially similar to offices for which elections were required to be conducted under rules in force prior to the 1973 amendments to the Act. The effect of the amendments will be to restore the situation prior to the 1973 amendments of the Act; that is, organisations will be able to appoint persons to them without the necessity of providing for their election. 
The proposals I have detailed are acceptable to the employers. The peak union councils have also been informed of the Government's proposals. When I previously discussed the question of collegiate voting with the unions last May, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  pointed out that there is a division of opinion within the trade union movement on this issue and that he could not put a monolithic trade union view on the matter. The Bill gives effect to the commitment I made on the Government's behalf at the end of the last sessionthat it intended to have enacted before 13 November, the date by which the 1973 amendments were to be effective- legislation which reflects its acceptance in principle of a form of collegiate voting provided the system adopted is consistent with its policy of fullest participation by members. With the passage of this legislation, organisations, whether of employers or unions, will of course no longer have to comply with the current requirement of amending their rules to provide for direct elections for officers. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-Of course I am concerned at the trend to pursue political or non-industrial objectives by the threat of or direct industrial action. I am greatly concerned- and I believe everybody in this community should be- to find that this technique apparently now has the approval, indeed it seems the encouragement, of the Leader of the Opposition. The list of actions of this kind is quite extensive and includes trade, mining and major building projects. During the Medibank strike- again a strike of a political nature- Australian workers lost a staggering $50m to $60m, approximately, in what seemed to be a futile exercise. There is a greater awareness in the community today of the social and environmental issues and, of course, that is a highly desirable thing. But any trade union is made up of members with widely varying political views and imposing on them by industrial means the pursuance of political objectives cannot possibly accommodate the wide variety of views held by union members. 
I am concerned to see Australia's export trade threatened by actions of this kind. I am concerned to see that Australians continue to be unemployed when they could get a job if, for example, bans on building projects did not exist. Apparently the Leader of the Opposition sees the role of the union movement as taking away from the Parliament those things which are properly the responsibility of Parliament. Unions are an important part of Australia's social and economic life. But they do not have, nor should they have, any God-given right, or even a right conferred by the Leader of the Opposition, to usurp the democratic process and to take away the proper role of Parliament. It is entirely irresponsible to suggest that they should do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The honourable member will appreciate that considerable difficulties and expenditure of resources and dme would be involved in attempting to ascertain the situation on this matter in all the countries of the non-communist world and even then the accuracy of some of the information obtained might be open to question. However, an examination of available material on practice in OECD member countries indicates that arrangements of the kind referred to by the honourable member do not apply. At the same time, it should be understood that in most of these countries unemployment compensation is administered and funded on a different basis from that which applies in Australia, where a fixed rate of unemployment benefit funded out of general revenue is paid to the unemployed person irrespective of previous income. Unemployment payments to unemployed persons in OECD member countries, the great majority of which have ratified ILO Conventions Nos 29 and 105 dealing with forced labour, are generally funded by means of an insurance system under which employees and/or employers contribute to an unemployment insurance fund, which is frequently supplemented by government contributions. Generally, the rate of benefit paid is related to the unemployed person's previous earnings. Quite apart from any other consideration, this sort of arrangement, by its very nature, does not lend itself to schemes involving the payment of unemployment benefits as a result of work on public projects. The benefits paid are in compensation for loss of employment and have been at least pardy funded by continuing insurance payments made during periods of employment to cover the contingency that individuals may subsequently become unemployed. Governments may, of course, initiate or expand public projects as employment creating measures but payment for work on such projects is generally at a rate established for the job and not related to unemployment compensation. 
As a matter of policy, the Government would not propose to introduce any scheme of enforced work in Australia which would be contrary to ILO Conventions Nos 29 and 105, both of which Australia has ratified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Employment statistics disaggregated to the extent he seeks are only collected in connection with quinquennial Censuses of Housing and Population. The most recent Census figures available are for 30 June 1971. These showed that: 
1 ) 1692 males and 3946 females were employed in connection with the manufacture of sporting clothes; 
1568 males and 718 females were employed in connection with the manufacture of sporting equipment; 
2473 males and 4360 females were employed in connection with the retailing of sporting clothes; and 
2806 males and 2075 females were employed in connection with the retailing of sporting equipment. 
It should be noted that the retail figures, particularly, are likely to omit those persons employed in small mixed retail businesses. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At end-July 1975 and end-July 1976 the number of males and females registered as unemployed at each of the above nominated offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service is set out in the table below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. They are not usually available in respect of parliamentary electorates. 
The Electoral Division of La Trobe, comprises part of the Employment Office areas of Ringwood and Boronia. Until 2.8.73 the Ringwood Employment Office covered the area which is now serviced by Boronia Employment Office. 
At present, approximately 80 per cent of the geographic area covered by the Boronia Office of the CES and approximately 50 percent of the geographic area covered by the Ringwood Office is contained in the La Trobe Electoral Division. However, somewhat smaller proportions of each area 's population are, in fact, contained m the La Trobe electorate (the majority of each area's population being located within the Casey electorate). 
The numbers of persons registered as unemployed as at 1 July for the two Employment Office areas mentioned and for each of the years were: 
Information is not available on the proportion of unemployed persons aged between 2 1 and 45 years or the proportion over 45 years of age. The proportions of persons under 2 1 and 2 1 years of age and over were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. They are not usually available in respect of parliamentary electorates. 
However, the Electoral Division of Balaclava comprises approximately 15 per cent of the Employment Office area of Moorabbin and approximately 85 per cent of the Employment Office area of St Kilda. The number of persons registered for employment at these two offices at end-July in the years requested were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am now advised that the Office of the Industrial Registrar does not maintain records in such a form as to enable the information sought by the honourable member to be readily provided. I am further advised that a research project involving experienced staff full-time for a considerable period of time would be required to obtain the information sought. It appears that, were the information extracted, it would be largely of academic interest. I previously announced the Government's acceptance in principle of a form of collegiate voting and its intention to amend section 133 during the current session of Parliament. This legislation has now been introduced. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the Forty-third Report, 1976, on special assistance for States. 
I have 2 amendments to clause 3. The first is actually consequential upon the second. I seek leave to move them together. 
-The House will remember that on 6 May I incorporated a statement in the second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry Temporary Provisions Bill which gave an indication of how the Government saw the future arrangements for that industry. Prior to presenting that statement I had detailed discussion and consultations with all the parties involved, including the Austraiian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I can well understand the concern of the staff of that Authority. As a result of the earlier discussions and consultations, arrangements were agreed upon for proper redundancy compensation for the staff of the Authority. In the meantime- that is to say, post-6 May- I indicated that further discussions would be held as to the future of the industry and that I hoped to make a further statement to the Parliament this year. I still hope to make that statement. I understand the concern of staff of the Authority. Indeed, I have sent a telegram to, I think, the secretary of the union concerned only in the last 24 or 48 hours. It is certainly my hope and intention to clarify the Government's attitude in relation to the industry and the members of the staff as soon as possible. I am concerned about the comment made by the honourable member as to lack of co-operation from the Commonwealth Employment Service in finding other employment for them. I was not aware of that. I shall see what can be done for those who wish to leave the Authority and find other employment. I agree that the important thing to do is to clarify the conditions for the future conduct of the industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The stock of unfilled vacancies as at end-March 1976 together with new vacancies notified during the months April, May and June totalled: (a) 442; (b) 707; (c) 2922. 
The number of vacancies which were filled at each of these offices during this period was: (a) 365; (b)507; (c)2124. 
The bulk of job vacancies are registered with the CES through employers requiring labour contacting offices usually by telephone and giving details of their requirements. In addition, the CES engages in regular promotional exercises which involve personal visits to employers in order to solicit vacancies. Finally, vacancies are obtained by direct approach to prospective employers on behalf of specific applicants. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Not previously 
No. 
No. 
No. The spelling 'program' has been approved Commonwealth style since the second edition of the Commonwealth Style Manual was published in 1972. It was adopted on the advice of the Style Manual Committee to accord with growing public usage of the shorter form and to be consistent with the spelling 'gram' adopted by Australia with the introduction of the metric system of measurements in 1970. The Concise Oxford Dictionary allows either spelling. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics are not collected in a form to provide separate data for the Prospect Electoral Division. However, the Electoral Division of Prospect comprises parts of the Em- ployment Office areas of Penrith, Blacktown, Fairfield and L iverpool. At the end of July 1975 and end-July 1976 the numbers of persons registered as unemployed at each of these offices were as follows: 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The establishment of the Department upon its abolition at 22 December 1975 numbered 1376 positions under the Public Service Act. This number does not include approvals to employ industrial staff in the Australian Government Publishing Service, who in December 1975 numbered 515. 
The ten positions which comprised the former Film Branch were not recreated in other departments. In addition, there were subsequent substantial savings due to a rationalisation of activities. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has not yet taken decisions on the numerous recommendations of this report, which has been put to study by an interdepartmental working group. When this study has been completed the Government will give detailed consideration to the report. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Commonwealth does not maintain the range of statistics required to answer this question. Information on these matters is contained in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. 
No specific Commonwealth assistance is provided for public libraries in the States. It is for the States and local authorities to determine the proportion of the Commonwealth general purpose assistance that should be devoted to public libraries. 
Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries (Question No. 1361) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The report has been referred to an interdepartmental working group which is expected to report shortly. 
Decisions on the report will be made after the results of the working group 's examination have been considered. 
-There does seem to me to be a basic inconsistency between what the New South Wales Premier is reported to be saying about industrial legislation and the unilateral action to which the honourable member referred. All I have seen are the Press reports. I find it rather strange that the New South Wales Premier has chosen this way of communicating with the Federal Government. Neither myself nor, as far as I am aware, the Prime Minister has had any communication from the Premier. I presume that the Premier is responding to an initiative taken by the Prime Minister a week or so ago when the Prime Minister wrote to Premiers suggesting cooperation between the Federal and State governments on industrial matters. If the New South Wales Government wants to put specific proposals to us in response to the Prime Minister's initiative, of course we will be pleased to have a look at them. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the period from 1 January 1975 to 3 1 December 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Question No. 867 was answered on 2 November, 1976,  (Hansard,  2 November 1976, page 2250). 
Yes, I am aware of the problem to which the honourable member has referred. I expect to be making a statement on the future of the stevedoring industry during the current session. As the honourable member would be aware, following long and detailed discussions with the unions involved satisfactory redundancy arrangements were arrived at for the members of the staff of the Authority. I am concerned at the uncertainty which surrounds thenimmediate future employment. Once I have made the parliamentary statement that I mentioned a moment ago I intend to confer again with the unions concerned on such issues as the honourable gentleman has raised. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has referred in previous decisions in national wage cases to the current dismal record of industrial disputation and the threat that this poses to continuation of the wage indexation guidelines. Initially the claims on the company involved in this dispute included a $20 a week extra wage, and a 35-hour week as well as certain redundancy benefits when redundancy is caused by technological change. Quite clearly the wage claim elements were outside the national wage case guidelines but the company indicated that it was perfectly willing to negotiate on the question of redundancy benefits. 
Apart from the vitally important national issues involved in this dispute which have been referred to by the Prime Minister, quite clearly action of this kind puts at risk the whole future of a rational system of wage fixation in Australia. The Commonwealth has emphasised in its submissions in the national wage cases the disruptive economic and industrial effects of disputation. This particular dispute draws attention to the drastic effects of such action not only on the people immediately involved but also on the community as a whole. A small number of quite irresponsible people, repudiating- I emphasise the word 'repudiating'- the efforts of national union leaders have prejudiced the normal conduct of business in Australia and therefore the employment prospects of thousands of workers. I have no doubt that this fact has been noted by the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which is hearing the current case. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
No statistical data is available on the economic cost of strikes. In the last three calendar years the following estimates by the Australian Bureau of Statistics are relevant: 
The above figures indicate that the absolute cost of strikes to the Australian economy is significant but there are many difficulties associated with making an accurate estimate of this cost. I understand that no overseas countries produce such statistics. 
My Department will examine the feasibility of making available in the future some form of estimate of the economic cost of industrial disputes. 
-As far as I am aware there has been no police inquiry of the sort to which the honourable gentleman referred. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum entitled  Towards a National Refining Policy. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Royal Commission into matters relating to Norfolk Island. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) Because of current economic restraints and the higher priorities of other Commonwealth accommodation requirements the provision of permanent accommodation in Hobart for the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has been deferred for the time being. However suitable temporary accommodation will be made available, at such times as the Commission requires, to enable it to sit in Hobart 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The question appears to refer to Parliament House. I have no responsibility for the House. The questioner might wish to address his question to the Presiding Officers. 
Ethnic Radio Station 2EA  (Question No. 956) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See answer to ( 1 ). 
Small quantities of uniforms and other protective clothing are ordered from private manufacturers. 
No. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967 by extending the life of that Act to 1 July 1977. In introducing this Bill I take this opportunity,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to make to the House a further detailed statement on the Government's attitude to future arrangements for the stevedoring industry and to tell honourable members of the future course that the Government wishes to see taken in this connexion. 
Honourable members will recall that in my second reading speech on a Bill to amend this Act on 6 May this year I made a similarly detailed statement. That statement indicated the Government's approach. It might well have been styled stage one of a total operation. The statement I am now making reports on progress and introduces what I might term stage two. On 6 May I discussed at length the reasons which prompted the Government to adopt the approach that I then outlined and so I do not propose to reiterate that thinking now. However, my statement outlined 3 years of special concern to the Government: 
Measures aimed at securing cost restraint. 
Measures to protect the interests of the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. 
Measures to overcome the problems of the industry as had been identified in the report presented to me by  Mr Justice  Northrop. 
Moreover, I said in May, and again I repeat it, that provided the industry can develop a suitable framework within which solutions to major problems can be found, the Government will relinquish its regulatory role through the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority provided that there are suitable arrangements to cope with the following particular problems: 
Continued efforts to reduce the workforce. 
Satisfactory arrangements for recruitment and redundancy of waterside workers to cope with the fluctuating requirements of the labour force, including the question of a supplementary labour scheme. 
Adequate distribution of and transferability of labour. 
Improved industrial relations and dispute settlement procedures. 
Effective participation in the industry of 'user' interests and other bodies. 
Satisfactory funding arrangements. 
I shall now deal with the developments that have taken place since my statement of 6 May. I place particular emphasis on protecting the well-being of the staff of the ASIA. I can now tell the House that a total redundancy arrangement has been settled with the unions concerned. I indicated in May that costs associated with this industry were of special concern to the Government. I placed emphasis on the importance of the role of the 
Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission in providing scrutiny as to these matters. As honourable members will be aware, the PJT is currently conducting a public examination of prices charged in the industry. The PJT is currently examining these matters as to Patrick Operations Pty Limited and Seatainers Limited. The Trade Practices Commission is examining matters associated with wharf handling and stacking charges. 
These inquiries are not yet completed and so I do not want to speculate about their outcome at this stage. However, I am pleased that they are being undertaken and, as I said to the House in May, in light of the impact costs in this industry have on all sections of the community, it is proper that such costs should come under surveillance to ensure that prices set are fair both to the supplier and the consumer. This surveillance is now taking place in this industry for the first time. The Government views the current examinations of the industry as positive means of protecting community interests. I would add that the Government is watching the current proceedings with very great interest and what emerges will be taken into account in the Government's final considerations. 
Since May, I have had extensive discussions with employer and union interests. I have also talked with various special interests, including the Australian Shippers Council, the bulk handling operators, the Association of Australian Port and Marine Authorities, the Australian National Line and the Broken Hill Pty Company Limited. 
All parties to the industry and the Government are agreed that the present level of the workforce in the industry isin excess of that needed for effective operational purposes. Since May I have given this matter special attention. The precise extent of the surplus is not agreed upon by all parties, but I am of the view that it is in the vicinity of at least 1200 men. However, I would not wish to be tied down to this number or any other number at this time. As I will indicate a little later on, my present concern is to ensure that positive action is taken to reduce the surplus significantly and as quickly as possible. When the process to achieve this gets under way, we will be closer to determining the final figure than we are now. The fact remains, however, that the cost impact of the surplus labour as reflected in the Authority's expenditure on idle time, is currently running at some $400,000 per week or $20m per annum. 
Existing redundancy arrangements have failed to attract sufficient volunteers to leave the industry and under no circumstances can the Government condone a situation which results in such high and unwarranted expenditure. Nevertheless, I can tell honourable members that, as a result of efforts I have encouraged, the labour force in the industry has already been reduced by some 300 men this year. So, I shall want the parties to confer, immediately, to secure a further significant reduction in the workforce quickly. I am proposing to the parties that they consider arrangements which would enable immediate separation of those surplus waterside workers in the 60 to 65 age group. This could reduce the labour force by about 500 men. I shall be suggesting to them that they then turn their attention to surplus numbers in the lower age groups. 
I am pleased to be able to tell honourable members that the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has agreed to make available a member of the Commission to chair the discussions between the parties. The costs involved in reducing the labour force will be borne by the industry. The precise manner in which they will be borne will depend on the overall arrangements decided upon for the industry. We have now reached the point at which stage two in developing new arrangements for the industry, in detail, can get under way. I am proposing to the parties that they enter into discussions and come up with a plan developed down to fine detail. This plan would need to cover such matters as the progressive transfer of responsibilities from the statutory body and present for the Government's consideration how the industry will manage its own affairs. Senior officers of my Department will participate in that conference and they will have broad views to put to it on my behalf as to such matters as: 
Provision of genuinely effective means of adding labour to and removing it from the workforce. 
Creation of circumstances to allow allocation and transfer of labour between stevedores. 
Development of special arrangements such as supplementary labour units to meet the fluctuating requirements of the ports. 
Improved industrial relations proceduresperhaps more importantly the continuing use of the procedures that presently exist but which appear to be used too infrequently. 
Methods whereby the interests of smaller ports are protected- where the industry as a whole does not subjugate the needs of these ports to those of the major ports. 
Consultative arrangements to allow all relevant interests to have an effective voice in the industry 's affairs. 
One particular matter to which I shall be giving attention will be the special position of those companies involved in bulk handling operations and as to which there are particular provisions in the stevedoring legislation. The concept of those provisions will need to be preserved and I shall be considering how best that might be achieved when the Government comes to consider the detailed arrangements which I expect the parties to the industry to develop. Assuming our expectations are realised, the Government will want to give opportunities for interested parties to have a voice m the industry and so it envisages the setting up of structures which will allow for consultation at a national level between the industry and a wide range of other parties, including governments. I also envisage a national management body for the industry and a management body at the port level. 
I emphasise that the precise nature and functions of these bodies need to be left flexible at this time so that final details can be worked out with the parties in the national discussions to which I have just referred. This is consistent with our aim of working with the industry and placing responsibility on it towards development of the totality of new arrangements. I intend that the national discussions should take place under an independent chairman. I am currently engaged in arranging this in consultation with the parties. I now turn to the question of future funding arrangements in the industry. Honourable members will be aware that the present arrangements rest upon a levy imposed under the provisions of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act. If the industry is to manage its own affairs such an arrangement will no longer be necessary. However, it can be expected that the industry will need to introduce funding arrangements of its own. My present thinking is that these may require some statutory backing. I shall be taking this up with the industry in the very near future. Needless to say, the Government will need to be satisfied with the nature of the final arrangements entered into in this area. My department will be engaging a consultant to work with it on this particular matter. There will be opportunities for interested parties to talk with him. 
As I indicated at the beginning of this speech, we are entering stage 2 of a very long and complicated exercise. I am pleased to say, however, that we are making progress. This is in no small measure due to the fact that this Government has taken a positive approach to the future of relationships in this industry. The discussions and developmental work that will need to be done now could not be finalised before the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act expires on 3 1 December 1976. Thus, the Bill now before the House proposes a further extension of that Act to 1 July 1977. What I have now said to the House is consistent with the attitude I expressed on 6 May and it is now for the industry, the Government and other interested parties to combine together to work out matters in detail. 
Before I finish I want to say something about the impact on the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority of what I have just told the House. I have already reminded honourable members that a redundancy agreement exists with the unions and the provisions of this are designed to protect the staff of the Authority in the event that the Authority may be abolished. Moreover, as provided in staff rules of the Authority, the staff of the Authority has been given 6 months initial warning of likely retrenchment. When I made my statement in May and the Parliament extended the life of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act until the end of December this year, it was envisaged that by that time new arrangements for the industry would have been worked out and that, therefore, the initial warning to the ASIA staff about likely redundancy would not have to be extended. However, as will be clear to the House, the Government has viewed the whole matter as being one of such seriousness that decisions about it are not to be rushed but approached in a measured and deliberate way. Unfortunately, this can create uncertainties for the staff of the Authority as to their future. I am very conscious of this and I propose to have early discussions with the unions whose members are employed by the Authority in an effort to allay any uncertainties and to confirm the arrangements that already exist with the unions. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill seeks to amend the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956 by repealing the provisions of that Act which establish a scheme of long service leave for waterside workers. This Bill is a companion to the Bill to amend the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act and in relation to which I have outlined to the House the Government's course of action towards developing new arrangements in the stevedoring industry. It is the wish of the parties to the industry that long service leave for waterside workers should no longer derive from the Stevedoring Industry Act but from an award of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In the Government's view this is consistent with the overall trend in the industry for several years now. 
Thus, the Government is prepared to accede to that wish and provided that an award is made by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission consistent with the Commission's principles as to long service leave the proposed change will come into force. The Government also proposes in this Bill to remove the existing statutory limit on the extent of borrowings by the Authority. The existence of a limit in the legislation is not consistent with the more or less standard provisions of statutory authorities generally. It is not yet clear to what extent the Authority will be able to finance from its existing cash resources the costs involved in the immediate future of the redundancy measures I have already outlined. The proposed removal of the borrowing limit provides the Authority with the option of seeking additional short term borrowings should this be necessary. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill would extend the life of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Amendment Act 1975 to 1 July 1977. The Bill becomes necessary as a result of the Bill that I have just introduced to extend the life of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics issues, on a monthly basis, estimates of: 
a ) the number of industrial disputes; 
the number of workers involved; 
the working days lost; and 
the loss in wages. 
Each quarter the Bureau also issues information on the causes of disputes and the means of settlement. The Bureau 's statistics refer only to disputes involving stoppages of work of ten man-days or more. 
Although the Bureau's statistics do not include instances where no stoppage of work is involved or where the stoppage involves less than 10 man-days, they do give a good indication of the extent of direct industrial action. The publication of a register in the detail suggested would duplicate to some degree the Bureau's work and would involve considerable Departmental resources. 
For these reasons I do not consider the time and expense which would be involved in the preparation and publication of another register along the lines suggested by the honourable member could be justified. 
Defence Force Members on Secondment  (Question No. 1256) 
-The Minister for Administrative Services has supplied the following information: 
Details of vehicles supplied to Australian Ambassadors and Heads of Mission during the six months ended 30 June 1976 are as follows: 
-The Department of Education estimates that in the course of the next few weeks approximately 250 000 young people will leave secondary education. Some will try to find employment. Some, of course, will go on to further education. It is estimated that last year approximately 180 000 of these people actually entered the work force. It is interesting to note that, of that number, only some 60 000 at the peak period of registrations, were registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Clearly, the majority found jobs for themselves. As occurred last year, the vast majority of school leavers will find employment. As the honourable member said, over 95 per cent of last year's school leavers have done so. But for some, because of the present difficult state of the economy, there will be problems in getting employment quickly. 
Recently, the Government has taken several initiatives in this field to help. I refer particularly to the subsidy of $59 a week to employers who- I emphasise this,  Mr Speaker-  provide a course of training for young people who have a history of high unemployment in the previous 12 months. This initiative is already a great success. I am advised that some 2300 young persons have been placed now under that scheme. We will be monitoring that scheme very carefully and will review it at the end of January in the light of the employment situation then. 
Also, we have introduced the community youth support scheme. We have received more than 200 inquiries for assistance under that scheme. The first approvals have been made already. I am pleased to tell the House that the first assistance which I approved was in relation to an application from the electorate of the honourable member for Murray. The Government will continue to assist young people who are experiencing employment problems. I mentioned earlier the special subsidies under the National Employment and Training scheme. I am pleased to tell the House that, when the 
Government reviewed the NEAT scheme and introduced new guidelines for it, the estimate was that some 3000 more people would be able to receive training under that scheme. At the time the Labor Government left office there were 7700 people receiving assistance under NEAT. There are now over 12 000 people. The Government will continue to use this form of emphasis on in-plant training to help the employment prospects of young people. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Departments are not aware of the figure the former Government had in mind as the expected savings and I am therefore unable to answer the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics are not collected in a form which allows information on the number of unemployed persons to be provided in the age groupings specified by the honourable member. The categories available permit data to be provided on the number of persons under 2 1 and the number of persons 2 1 years of age and over. 
It is also not possible to identify qualified persons and apprentices. However, some data are available on persons registered for skilled employment. Of these, it should be realised that some adult applicants registered could be apprentices over the age of21, some junior applicants registered could be qualified tradesmen under the age of 21, while other junior applicants registered could be seeking an apprenticeship but not yet indentured. 
In addition, not all unskilled persons can be identified from the statistics. The occupational categories listed include Unskilled Manual' but there are also categories of 'Rural' and 'Service Occupations', both of which could include many unskilled jobs.. 
In like manner, the category 'Professional and Semiprofessional ' cannot be taken to include only occupations for which professional qualifications are required as this category may include technician-type occupations. 
Subject to the above, the following table shows the numbers of unemployed adult and junior males and adult and junior females registered for employment in Skilled, Unskilled Manual, Professional and Semi-professional occu- pations in Australia for each month from end-September 1 975 to end-October 1976. 
The figures shown in the columns 'per cent' represent the proportion of total registered unemployed in the month concerned which the particular categories comprise: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No data are available for women in the workforce with children under 5 years of age. However, information relating to women in the workforce with children aged 0-5 years, i.e. under 6 years of age, is available from a survey conducted by the then Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics in May 1973. 
This survey showed that at May 1 973: 
277,200 women in the workforce were responsible for children under 6 years of age, and 
these women represented 27.1 per cent of women in the population who were responsible for children under 6 years of age. They also represented 14.7 per cent of the total female workforce. 
It should be noted that, in classifying the persons surveyed in May 1973 as being responsible for children, responsibility was assigned, wherever possible, to a female- mother, stepmother, foster mother or female guardian. A male was classified as being responsible for a child only in cases where there was no such female. In consequence, in May 1973, there were only 4500 males in the workforce classified as being responsible for children under 6 years of age. 
The latest Australian Bureau of Statistics population estimates for June 1 975 put the number of children aged 0-4 years, i.e. under 5 years at 1 262 448 and the number of children aged 5 years at 250 135 making a total of 1 512 583 children aged 0-5 years, i.e. under 6 years of age. The corresponding estimates for June 1973 were 1 277 280 and 238 824 respectively, making a total of I 516 104 children under 6 years of age. 
Statistics are not available for the numbers of children under 5 years of age who have mothers in the workforce. However, the May 1973 survey conducted by the then Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics revealed that 374 200 children aged 0-5 years, i.e. under 6 years of age, were the responsibility of persons in the workforce, representing 2 7.7 per cent of total children in that age group. The survey did not provide a breakdown to show separately the number of children who were the responsibility of females in the workforce, and the number who were the responsibility of males in the workforce. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The determination of apprenticeable trades is, of course, a matter for the State apprenticeship authorities. However, I am advised that relevant courses are already available in Queensland and Western Australia, and that in Victoria training can be provided through special modules or units within the general structure of courses for motor mechanics. 
I understand that the apprenticeship authorities in these and other States are prepared to sympathetically consider proposals for introducing or improving apprenticeship courses in the areas concerned. 
Committee to Examine Report of Royal Commission on Petroleum (Question No. 1505) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Government has provided no such assistance.  The Complete Book of Australian Birds  was produced under arrangements negotiated between the Readers Digest Association Pty Ltd and the Trustees of the National Photographic Index of Birds. The latter is an independent scientific organisation which has been financially assisted by the present and the previous Governments. 
For the information of honourable members I present the third report, 1976, of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on financial assistance for local government. Due to the limited number available at this time reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Represenatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The previous Government, in the context of its 1975-76 Budget deliberations, decided to provide $I35m for the Regional Empolyment Development Scheme in that year. This necessitated a review of all projects approved after 30 June 1975 and of those approved before that date on which work had not begun. As a result of that review the Ministerial Committee, to whom responsibility for oversighting the Scheme had been delegated, decided on 10 September 1975 that: 
the $135m provided in the Budget for the Scheme in 1975-76 should enable all projects already commenced, Le. on which unemployed workers had been engaged, to be continued within their approved financial allocation under the Scheme; 
the projects which had not already commenced should proceed now only in the small number of areas experiencing most severe unemployment. In general this would mean a local unemployment rate of twice the national rate; 
all other projects previously approved should not be funded, but that claims for any legitimate expenditure of moneys already incurred in relation to these projects would be considered sympathetically and speedily; 
no new requests for assistance under the Scheme would be accepted; and 
no further cost escalation would be funded on projects other than in the most exceptional circumstances. 
Shortly after it assumed office, the present Government, in its review of expenditure for 1975-76, decided that the Budget allocation of $ 135m should not be exceeded and that decisions taken by the former Ministers should continue to be applied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of persons registered as unemployed by duration of registration are currently extracted only twice yearly at end-May and end-November. Subject to this qualification, the number of persons registered as unemployed for 3 months and over at end-November 1975 was 78 320 and, at end-May 1976,90 497. 
-Yes, I am aware ofthe matter to which the honourable gentleman refers. My Department in Sydney has been investigating aspects of the payment of unemployment benefits with which it is concerned. As a result of those investigations the Commonwealth Police were asked to make further inquiries. As a consequence of those inquiries charges have been laid against an officer of my Department in Sydney, and the police are continuing their inquiries. My Department has already taken action in Sydney to reconcile the records kept by the Department of Social Security involving the issuing of unemployment benefit cheques with the records kept by the Commonwealth Employment Service. I have asked my Department to investigate as a matter of urgency what other checks and safeguards may be needed to be introduced in this matter. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Stevedoring Industry Amendment Bill and the Stevedoring Industry Charge Amendment Bill (No. 2) as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter ofthe 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
This has been, I think, a useful and interesting debate. I wish to make a few references to issues that were raised by all honourable members who have contributed to it. When leading for the Opposition, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  made some criticism of the Government for not being able to determine final arrangements for the industry by the end of this year. I can remember speaking in this House and indicating some concern at the continual extensions to the temporary provisions legislation. But I do say that since this Government has been in office more has been done in this year to work out some better future arrangements in the industry not only than occurred in the 3 years when the Labor Government was in office but also than occurred for a great many years. The discussions which have taken place so far have been complex. The negotiations have involved a great number of different organisations and different individuals, all with different objectives. We have come some way towards charting the future for the industry. I am glad to hear from the honourable member that he too feels that there are chances of reaching reasonable agreement. 
The honourable member referred to changes in the Prices Justification Tribunal legislation. I must say that it is nonsense to suggest that the Prices Justification Tribunal in future will not be able to expose costs in the industry as it has in fact done on this occasion. In my statement on 6 May I said that it was proper that costs in this industry should come under surveillance to ensure that prices set are fair both to the supplier and to the consumer. Under the changes to the Prices Justification Tribunal legislation, the Tribunal can still initiate its own inquiries. Indeed, the Government can take the initiative as well. 
There will be no question of exemption in this respect. It is just not true to say that the changes in the legislation will make it impossible for the PJT to do in the future what it is doing now. That is the point I am making. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand rightly drew attention to the problem of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority staff. This has been an issue that has caused me great concern. I have referred to it on more than one occasion in this House. I think the honourable member was a little unfair when he criticised me for not keeping the staff of the ASIA informed as to what was going on. I kept the staff informed to the maximum extent possible. But I would not think that the honourable member or any other member of this House would consider it proper to inform the staff of the Authority ahead of informing the Parliament. That was my first responsibility. As soon as that was done, I informed the staff of the Authority of what I had in mind. As the honourable member has said, negotiations and discussions have proceeded with the staff. I appreciate the concern of the staff members, but it just was not possible to take the action recommended by the honourable member prior to informing the Parliament itself. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  made a most interesting and useful contribution to this debate. I thank him for his personal comments. The Government certainly does need goodwill, support and perhaps a little bit of luck as well in arriving at a fair and reasonable arrangement for the future of this industry. The honourable member rightly drew attention to the turbulent industrial relations history of the industry and the legacy of bitterness that previous practices have left behind them. He referred also to the great problems caused by employers not always resisting pressure from wage claims made on them. As he rightly pointed out, conceding in this area affects all Australian citizens because of the increased cost of goods coming into and going out of the country. The honourable member referred also to the question of contracts of employment in the United States of America and the possible application of this principle in Australia. What he said is true: Industrial law in this country is flouted in a way which does not happen in other areas of law. Nobody benefits from that state of affairs. We certainly do need to find a solution to the huge economic and social problems that that situation causes. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  referred more particularly to the problems of redundancy not only in the stevedoring industry but also in other industries. He drew attention to the specific difficulties of the smaller non-permanent ports such as Geelong. The Government is well aware of this aspect. We have already said that we will need to be satisfied that the smaller ports will not be disadvantaged. The honourable member referred also to the fact that the possible future reduction of the port quota in Geelong would mean that the port could not handle any peaks in cargo which might come into the port. I say merely at this stage that in the context of the negotiations on redundancy which are going on now we are looking at the major ports. I remind the honourable member for Corio that reference to my statement of a week or so ago will show that the transferability of labour is an essential part of any new arrangements. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  raised several important issues flowing from the Prices Justification Tribunal inquiry, particularly the high costs of handling cargo in Australia. I referred to that aspect a moment ago. He drew attention to the very favourable terms and conditions of employment in the waterfront industry. That of course is one of the main concerns of the Government. The inquiry by the PJT has brought all these costs out into the open for the first time at an official level. We will certainly need to be satisfied, as I said on 6 May and reiterated the other day, that adequate price surveillance mechanisms will be available to help keep the costs of the industry under review. 
The discussions and negotiations on the future ofthe industry are now under way. I am hopeful that they will be pursued with vigour and speed. I think there is a willingness on both sides of the industry to do just that. It is in nobody's interests that these discussions should drag out too long. That applies particularly to the future of the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. They, too, want to know with certainty as soon as is possible what will be happening to them. 
I thank the honourable members who have contributed to this debate. I also pay tribute to those members of the industry and to members of my own Department who have done a tremendous amount of work in laying the ground rules for the negotiations which are now under way. This has required patience, tolerance, and goodwill on all sides. I am hopeful that, if those qualities can be brought to the negotiations themselves, we may be at last on the way to a better, more workable structure for the Australian waterfront. That will be in everybody's interests. The objective of this Government is certainly to achieve that result. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In August 1976 the International Labour Office in Geneva issued a Press Statement based on data collected by the ILO Bureau of Statistics from 18 Western European countries, the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. The Australian statistics used by the ILO Bureau of Statistics were supplied by the Australian Statistician. 
According to this Press Statement, which was duly reported in the Australian Press, the data, while not necessarily comparable from one country to another, showed that in the countries covered, unemployed women workers represented more than 40 per cent of total unemployment, while women made up only 35 per cent of their labour force. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics estimated that in August 1976, there were 118000 females unemployed in Australia, representing 44.7 per cent of the estimated total unemployed at that date. The Bureau's classification of unemployed persons, which conforms closely to the labour force classification recommended by the Eighth International Conference of Labour Statisticians, 1954, includes those looking for part-time work, as well as those looking for full-time work. The August 1976 estimate of 118 000 females unemployed in Australia comprised 84 900 females looking for full-time work, and 33 100 females looking for part-time work. 
In August 1976, the Australian Bureau of Statistics also estimated that there were 2 098 200 females in the work force, representing 34.9 per cent ofthe estimated total work force. 
The latest available statistics on unemployment in Australia are those of persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES). These statistics show that at the end of October 1 976 there were 86 064 females registered with the CES, representing 32.9 per cent of the total number of persons registered as unemployed with the CES. However, the number of persons registered as unemployed with the CES does not include those seeking part-time employment. 
While there are no data available to provide a definitive answer, it is reasonable to assume that in the engagement and dismissal of staff, a major consideration for employers would be the requirements of each job and the qualifications and ability of persons to fulfil such requirements. Further, in general, unions prefer to have the last on, first off principle applied in cases where retrenchment is necessary. 
3) See answer to (1). 
The Government has recently introduced programs to combat problems associated with unemployment among the groups which are most affected. These are junior females and junior males, who are experiencing particular difficulty in finding employment. 
Accordingly, the Special Youth Employment Training Program which  Mr Howard  announced on 22 September 1976, as extended along the lines I announced on 21 November 1976, and the Community Youth Support Scheme which I announced on 2 1 October 1976, have been initiated with the objectives of increasing employment and training opportunities for young people. 
The first of these programs directly assists young people aged 15-19 years who have been away from full-time education for at least 6 months in the last 12 months, who are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service and who have been registered with the CES for at least 6 of the previous 12 months. During the first six weeks of operation some 2300 young people have been placed under the program and it is estimated that almost 50 per cent of these were females. The program is administered within the overall NEAT context which itself is already assisting many women with training. At the end of October 1976 in the order of 5000 women, including those placed under the Special Youth Employment Training Program, were receiving assistance under NEAT. 
The Community Youth Support Scheme, operative from 1 November 1976, aims to encourage community action toward the provision of supportive programs and services to the young unemployed, both girls and boys. Financial assistance is available toward the provision of a range of programs which would help to keep unemployed youth oriented to work, and improve their ability to apply for jobs and find employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Red Scheme dealt with organisations not persons. Thirty sponsors in Tasmania were required to refund to the Commonwealth moneys paid to their organisations under REDS. These were: 
The honourable member was very diligent in the interests of his electorate in obtaining funds through the Regional Employment Development scheme. Whatever one may think of that scheme, the honourable member has made a most interesting analysis of it, and that is at present under study in my department. The suggestion that the honourable member has just made is an interesting one. A great deal of work has been done overseas and in Australia on the question of job subsidy paid to employers and on the extent to which subsidies can be paid and still show a net benefit on the work done. The honourable member has made an original suggestion along these lines. I cannot confirm the percentage that he quoted and it may well be that the feasibility of what he has suggested hinges on the accuracy of that figure of 25 per cent. Certainly it is an interesting suggestion. I shall ensure that the text of the question and the answer is brought to the attention of my department and we will give consideration to it. 
All the conferences in the world will not solve the problem of unemployment. The problem can be solved only by achieving a revitalised Australian economy. Since three out of four jobs in the Australian economy are provided by the private sector it is to that sector we must look to provide the jobs that we need, whether they be for the young people or for the older people who are also out of work. The action which the Government has taken in the last few days in bringing Australia's currency more into Une with those of our major trading partners and restoring the competitive position of Australian industry, particularly the import competing industries and the export industries, will do far more good than all the conferences proposed by the honourable member. The fact is that the Australian cost structure has got so far out of line over the last few years that Australians, instead of exporting goods, have been exporting jobs. That is a plain fact of life, and nothing could be done to correct that so long as the Australian currency remained so far out of line with those of our trading partners. The action taken by the Government is the correct action to take to restore full employment to the Australian economy. 
-The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has never said that there should be automatic application of the full amount of the consumer price index to wages. What it has said is that at each quarterly hearing it will listen to the case and decide for itself the extent to which the CPI should be applied and the method by which it should be applied. The fact is that if full indexation is automatically applied every quarter in Australia, with inflation running at the present level, there is no way in the world in which Australia's competitive position can improve; in fact, it will go back. The average inflation rate of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries now, from memory, is slightly less than 9 per cent. I think it is about 8.8 per cent or 8.9 per cent. The Australian position is still worse than that average. We will not restore our competitive position until we get our inflation rate down to that average or below it. 
The fact is that partial indexation, of itself, does not need to compress relativities. It depends on the method of application of the partial indexation. For example, if 50 per cent indexation was being applied across the board, there would be no compression of relativities. If it is applied only at the botton end of the wage scale there is compression of relativities. It depends on the method by which it is applied. The Government, as it has in the past, will continue to put, in the public interest, a case at the quarterly hearings of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which will protect the interests of Australian workers so that they do not price themselves out of jobs. 
I think that possibly the one interesting factor in a remarkably uninteresting speech from the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  was the fact that he did not refer to the matter of public importance that he himself has raised. The whole tenor of his speech was devoted to a lot of irrelevancies which had nothing to do with the matter before the House. I should like to analyse the matter proposed for discussion by the honourable member for Melbourne. I should like to analyse the matter and discuss for a moment the accuracy or inaccuracy of his suggestions. From the time that this Government took office we have sought to establish effective working relations with the peak union councils and the Australian Council of Trade Unions in particular, certainly to a greater extent than his Government did when it was in office, and to a greater extent then any government has done for many years. We have continued these efforts that we started immediately on coming to office 12 months ago. I should like to give some illustration of the sort of action I am talking about. 
About this time last year we held discussions with  Mr Hawke  for the unions and  Mr Polites  for the employers on the establishment of a national labor consultative council. We hoped that it would be formed to enable detailed consideration of issues affecting the industrial scene. It is a matter of regret to the Government that the ACTU so far has not seen fit to agree to participate in that body. I would like to take this opportunity of saying that the offer remains open. 
We have consulted with unions and employers on industrial legislation before it has been introduced this year. When sensible suggestions were made to amend the Government's legislation we accepted them.  Major discussions  were held between the Government and the unions last May which lasted about 2 days. The meeting was chaired by the Prime Minister and was attended on the Government side, by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  myself, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  together with permanent heads and other senior advisers. I doubt that any government in Australia has been prepared to participate in such a way in face to face discussions with unions at such a high level over such an extended period of time. 
Far from denigrating the trade union movement these sorts of discussions have sought to recognise the important role which we accept it. has in the community. At the same time, no government would be responsible if it were to refrain from speaking out on issues when it believes that the behaviour of particular groups is not consistent with the overall interest of the community. That applies whether it is unions, employers, or interested groups of various kinds. It is open to unions and to every group in the community to express and to seek to promote views which they hold on any particular matter which is of direct interest to their members. We, as a responsible Government take account of the wide variety of views which are expressed. It is for the Government, elected as it has been and responsible to the electorate, to make the final decision and to accept the responsibility. It is not for unions or any other group to use their industrial or other power to prohibit the implementation of decisions which the Government has undertaken. 
The proposal which is before us today for the discussion of a matter of public  importance proves that the Opposition has lost contact with the real world. The fact remains that the honourable member for Melbourne did not speak about the form of words which appear on the notice paper. Taking the proposal on face value, it proves that the Opposition has lost touch with the real world. I cannot imagine why the Opposition choose to propose this discussion in the form that it has. Every day there is more and more evidence that people are getting sick and tired of a few leaders- I emphasise that- of the trade union movement disrupting the economic and social life of this country; denying their own members the right to work; denying goods and services to the public; and making unreal demand on the resources of the country. In fact, the stage has been reached where the only real major obstacle to Australian recovery is the behaviour of a few leaders of the trade union movement. Every poll that is taken confirms that people believe that this minority of union leaders is abusing the considerable power that they have. It is interesting to note that this opinion is shared by many of the rank and file members of the trade union movement itself. The Labor movement has lost touch with reality and some of the leaders of the trade union movement also have lost touch with reality. The proper functions of the trade unoins are being swamped by the irresponsible actions of a few- a few who do not have the best interests of their members as their objective; a few who, in pursuit of their own political ideologies, are quite prepared to keep their members out of work and prevent the creation of jobs. There are so many examples of this sort of action that it is difficult to identify all of them. Perhaps the most glaring example is the one to which the honourable member for Melbourne devoted the greater part of his speech- that is the ban on the building of the Newport power station in Victoria. The ban itself is costing hundreds of jobs which otherwise would be available to people who would be building the power station. Make no mistake about it: The ban has nothing to do with the legitimate aims of the trade union movement. It is a blatant attempt to take over the role of government irrespective of the interests of the people of Victoria. The project has been the subject of the most detailed examination on environmental grounds. The honourable member for Melbourne seems to ignore the fact that the Environmental Protection Authority in Victoria has looked into this matter in the greatest detail and completely cleared the project. If the power needs of Victoria are to be met in the most economical way, it is essential that this project proceed. I am informed that the extra cost of building somewhere else the power station proposed for Newport would be approximately $100m. That unquestionably would raise substantially the cost of power in Victoria and that, in turn, would add higher costs to an already inflated cost structure. 
It is probable that, in addition, there will be a shortage of power in Victoria as a result of the delay in getting the power station built. This will mean that industries which would have been set up in Victoria will be delayed or perhaps will not be set up at all. This means further the loss of jobs- many jobs- for years ahead. There is only one group of people responsible for this state of affairs, and that is a small number of trade union leaders who quite deliberately are creating direct unemployment now and much greater unemployment prospects in the future in Victoria. If that is what Opposition members regard as an example of the trade union movement being involved in matters of legitimate interest, I can assure them that they are the only people who do. Let us look at another dispute and stack it up against the criteria that have been set out in the matter proposed for discussion this morning. I refer to the ban on the delivery of mail to the John Fairfax newspaper company in Sydney. The ban on the delivery of mail to that company was imposed by a union which had no interest or no concern in the dispute with that company. Do Opposition members regard that as a legitimate use of trade union influence? Do they support that sort of ban or that sort of action? If they do, and if they regard that action as legitimate, let us hear them say so. 
There is another form of industrial action, and that is the making of excessive wage claims. I stress the word 'excessive'. A good example of this is provided by some 60 members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association and the Electrical Trades Union who were employed by the J. Ray McDermott company on the Bass Strait oil platform construction project. These men have been on strike since 7 October in support of claims for an even time work cycle. These men currently are employed on a work cycle of 14 days on and 7 days off. They are striking in support of a claim for a work cycle of 7 days on and 7 days off, with no reduction in pay. If agreed to, this claim would mean in effect that they would work 61 days less a year for the same amount of pay. It is a claim that is clearly outside the wage fixing principles of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The dispute has been before  Mr Justice  Coldham on a number of occasions. The company concerned has indicated its willingness to have the outstanding claims arbitrated; but the unions have always refused to do this. 
The extraordinary aspect is that 75 per cent of those employed on the project, who are members of the Federated Ironworkers Association and the Australian Workers Union, have accepted the company's offers of improved working conditions. They are quite ready and prepared to resume work. So, the strike is being continued only by a minority of employees who are directly causing the unemployment of fellow workers. It is interesting to note the pay that these people are receiving. Honourable members should remember that these men are on a work cycle of 14 days on and 7 days off. The lowest paid worker on this project currently receives almost $30,000 a year. The highest paid worker on the project is paid approximately $38,000 a year. The wage claims which they have made would add, from memory, some $8,000 a year to the levels of wages that I have just quoted. The Australian economy just cannot stand claims of that magnitude. There is no way in the world that employment can be maintained, let alone new jobs created, if that sort of action is pursued. 
There are dozens of other examples of this kind of thing contributing directly to unemployment. They are a constant reminder of the truth of a comment made by a previous Labor Party Treasurer not so long ago when he said that a rise in one man's pay packet can cost another man his job. The trade union movement itself cannot afford to let this small minority of leaders, this militant minority, continue to deny jobs to other people and continue to delay economic recovery in this country. The honourable member for Melbourne has done one service to the House today in enabling this question to be aired. It gives me no pleasure to say that a small minority of trade union leaders are directly engaged in action which is preventing their members from getting jobs and preventing jobs from being created for those people whom they have put out of work, so that they can resume productive employment and a satisfying life. So, if the honourable member's action m proposing this subject for discussion as a matter of public importance today has done nothing else, it has enabled this House to have a look at actions which quite clearly are contrary to the best interests of the trade union movement and contrary to the best interests of the Australian community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ABS publishes weighted average minimum weekly and hourly wage rates separately for adult males and adult females, together with an index, base year 1954 = 100, which merely indicates growth since the base year. 
The OECD publishes no statistics in absolute money terms on average wage rates and average earnings in member countries. 
Definitions and norms used by the statistical authorities in OECD countries to gather data on wage rates vary considerably and, quite apart from this, compilation of comparative date of actual money wage rates has been regarded as having limited value because the factors affecting the level of wages differ markedly from country to country. 
In light of these practical difficulties, one effective alternative method of providing comparative data on wages in member countries adopted by the OECD has been the measurement of movements in average earnings for each member country on the basis of percentage changes over time. 
The OECD releases this information in two publications: the biannual Economic Outlook (latest available July 1976): and the monthly Main Economic Indicators (latest available October 1976). The attached table is compiled from data contained in the latest editions of these two publications. 
It sets out percentage changes in earnings in the manufacturing industry for each OECD country covering the period 1964-1976. The footnotes indicate that, despite the fact the heading to the table refers to 'hourly earnings', the data is not in all cases based on actual hourly rates for all countries. 
It should also be noted that these rates are for the manufacturing industry only, data for all industries not being available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. It replaces the answer provided on 2 November 1 976 (see  Hansard,  page 2240): 
Employment statistics disaggregated to the extent he seeks are only collected in connection with quinquennial Censuses of Population and Housing. The most recent Census figures available are for 30 June 1971. These showed that: 
1 ) 1598 males and 7 1 8 females were employed in establishments mainly engaged in the manufacturing of sporting equipment; 
2841 males and 2077 females were employed in establishments mainly engaged in the retailing or repairing of sporting goods, bicycles, toys or hobby equipment; 
It should be noted that the figures relate to establishments mainly engaged in these activities, and therefore exclude persons employed in establishments mainly engaged in other industries but which include a degree of manufacture or retailing of sporting equipment as a secondary activity; 
The Census statistics are not disaggregated to the extent that the manufacturing and retailing of sporting clothes can be separated from that of general clothing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers on 22 October 1976 suggesting that the State Labour Ministers meet with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to discuss matters of common concern in industrial relations. 
At the subsequent special meeting of the Conference of Ministers for Labour held in Melbourne on 12 November 1976 one of the matters discussed was the problem highlighted by the judgment in Moore v Doyle. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) Under the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948 a Prime Minister may qualify, in the same way as other members of Parliament, for a parliamentary retiring allowance which becomes payable on retirement from the Parliament. His service as a Prime Minister may have qualified him also for a ministerial or a prime ministerial retiring allowance. 
It is not the practice for details relating to individual contributors under the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act to be made public The following former Prime Ministers and widows of former Prime Ministers are in receipt of retiring allowances under the Act: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Labor Government purchased 339 P76 Leyland motor cars in 1975 in connection with the decision by Leyland Australia to reduce its manufacturing activities in Australia; 
and (3) In the last 12 months one P76 Leyland motor car was auctioned on behalf of the Commonwealth Government by the Commonwealth Disposals Authority in Melbourne. The vehicle realised $300. It was disposed of due to accident damage and was without engine or transmission. 
Employment in the Textiles, Apparel and Footwear Industries  (Question No. 1465) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to rationalise and coordinate provisions relating to the retirement and redeployment of staff throughout various areas of Commonwealth employment. The legislation will be able to be applied by regulation to virtually any area of Commonwealth civilian employment. Without wanting to get into a debate on the justification for giving some government functions to statutory authorities rather than to departments of state, I think there is increasing recognition of the need to avoid unnecessary or artificial distinctions in relation to the staffing of the various parts of the Administration. This is certainly a recurrent theme in the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. In the particular area that is the subject of this Bill, these are by no means just theoretical considerations. Where staff, for whatever reason, can no longer be effectively employed in a particular department or authority, their future as Government employees ought not to be artificially inhibited by a largely irrelevant consideration, namely, the particular government sector in which they are employed. Accordingly, the Bill will give the Public Service Board appropriate responsibilities to endeavour to redeploy staff in other areas before retirement can become an issue. I believe that this is a desirable objective with which there would be common ground with both management and the trade union movement. 
 The Bill will apply initially only to the Public Service, with other government employment areas being added by regulation. However, it would be the Government's expectation that authorities etc. will become part of the scheme unless there is some compelling reason why this should not be so. Another preliminary point I should make concerns the types of staff who will be covered. In the Public Service Act and some other areas of Commonwealth employment, formal distinctions are drawn between permanent officers and temporary employees. In practice the distinction is not so clean Persons often serve in a so-called temporary status for many years, whilst distinctions in the conditions of employment of temporary and permanent staff have been narrowed considerably. The major exception to this concerns retirement, since only permanent officers have continuing tenure to the specified retiring age once their appointment has been confirmed. Temporary employees, no matter how long they have actually been employed, are normally liable to have their services dispensed with at any time. The Bill now before the House makes a major change to this state of affairs, in that applicability of retirement provisions will depend, in the main, on duration of work rather than a technical staffing category. Thus, so-called temporary employees will normally be covered unless their employment is for a fixed or otherwise limited period. This approach is consistent with recommendations of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration concerning categories of employment. 
I turn now to the basic redeployment and retirement provisions in the Bill. These cover 2 main areas- age retirement and management initiated redeployment or retirement. Staff covered by the Bill will be entitled to retire on attaining an age prescribed for that purpose. The Government has in mind, as pan of the total scheme reflected in the Bill, that the age to be so specified initially for all staff would be 55 years as recommended by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, rather than the present generally applicable age of 60 years. The Bill will also enable a maximum retiring age to be prescribed by regulation- this would normally be, as at present, 65 yearsalthough there are provisions, similar to those already in the Public Service Act, enabling staff, with their consent, to stay on beyond the maximum age where this is in the interests of the Commonwealth. 
The need for appropriate powers in relation to management initiated redeployment and retirement has, of course, always been recognised, and has been an accepted qualification to the permanent status of Commonwealth public servants since Federation. For example, the Public Service Act presently includes provisions enabling management initiated redeployment or retirement of excess officers and inefficient or incapacitated officers, and management initiated retirement of any officers who have attained 60 years of age. A frequent criticism of these pans of the Public Service Act is that they do not adequately protect the rights of individual employees through, for example, formal rights of appeal and perhaps a more direct relationship between the powers and their clear purpose, namely, the efficient and economical functioning of the Service. Additionally, as I mentioned earlier, there are formal barriers which hinder effective redeployment efforts throughout the Administration. The Public Service Board has for some years been pursuing the possibility of change, and the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration has now made several recommendations for change. It unanimously and specifically concluded that there was a need to retain provisions covering redundancy and compulsory early retirement. 
The Bill takes a new approach to management initiated redeployment and retirement, aimed at overcoming these deficiencies through improved and co-ordinated processes. I would now like to briefly mention the main features of this approach. Clause 7 requires that any action taken is to be directed towards ensuring, to the greatest extent practicable, that departments and authorities make efficient and economical use of their staff. Retirement is only to become a possibility where redeployment would be impracticable or unreasonable. Whilst departments and authorities will have the prime responsibility for keeping their own houses in order, Public Service Board involvement will mean consistency and co-ordination of the procedures they follow. The Board will determine procedures and criteria for the Public Service, whilst authorities will be required to consult with the Board before determining their own procedures and criteria. 
Where there are staff whose services cannot reasonably be used by the department or authority in which they are employed, whether on grounds of excess numbers, incapacity or otherwise, the Board must be informed, and will then have a duty to take such action as is reasonable and practicable to arrange for redeployment within the Administration. The Board's duty will be backed up by appropriate provisions concerning, for example, appointment and promotion powers of both the Board and authorities. Only where redeployment is not practicable can the question of retirement arise. Affected staff will have clear rights to have decisions affecting them reviewed. There is no such right now. These review rights will cover the initial decision of a department or authority to identify the employee, any redeployment action, and any decision that redeployment is not practicable. In the long term, the Government envisages that the outcome of the review initiated by the Public Service Board of appeal arrangements generally, taking into account relevant Royal Commission recommendations, will lead to the development of new grievance review machinery having application here. Pending development of that machinery, the Board will be discussing interim arrangements with employee organisations, prior to the making of regulations as envisaged by the Bill. The Board has already been discussing the issues involved with those organisations. 
Finally, I wish to explain the purpose of clause 19. Honourable members will see that it enables regulations to be made for the payment of special benefits to persons retired at the initiative of management. I mentioned earlier that we intend prescribing 55 years as the minimum age for voluntary retirement and we have in mind that, in specified circumstances, persons at or above that age who are retired at management's initiative will receive special benefits. The nature of such benefits, and the circumstances to give rise to them, will be the subject of discussions between the Board and employee organisations prior to decisions being taken. In this context, it is relevant to note that the Public Service Arbitrator has under consideration issues which, when resolved, could have a bearing on this queston. These new approaches are a significant improvement over existing provisions. The latter do not include effective criteria, but go as far as section 85, which allows the compulsory retirement of any officer over 60 years of age without specifying any reasons whatever. There is no such potentially arbitrary provision in this new scheme. 
The Bill traverses an area which is, understandably, of particular concern to employee organisations. Since early this year there have been various discussions on this topic with those organisations. This Bill is a logical consequence of the various proposals and suggestions made in recent years that I mentioned earlier. In recent discussions with the Public Service Board, the organisations have expressed a strong concern to have an opportunity to study the legislative proposals before they become law. The Government is confident that the scheme in the Bill is equitable, and is therefore anxious to see it become law as soon as possible, though it would not wish to be seen as acting with undue haste. Accordingly, it is our intention that the Bill not proceed past the introduction stage for the moment so that there will be adequate opportunity for debate and so that consultation on the total scheme between the Public Service Board and staff organisations can continue. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. . 
The honourable member was very active and persistent in defending his electorate earlier this year following the phasing down of the gold mining industry. I understand that the Kalgoorlie Town Council last week held a meeting to discuss the unemployment problem in Kalgoorlie. As a result of that meeting the Town Council declared that there was no employment problem in the eastern goldfields area. The local manager of the Commonwealth Employment Service office has indicated that there is a shortage of skilled labour, especially in the metal trades. I believe that the Town Council has made an additional statement that it believes the devaluation of the Australian dollar will further boost employment opportunities in that region. I am further informed that the local secretary of the Australian Workers Union is quoted as having said: 
If I could get 100 skilled miners I would be able to place them in employment immediately. 
Also, I understand that at this meeting that was called by the Kalgoorlie Town Council a local accountant said that there was a severe shortage of suitable qualified staff for commerce and business and that many employers had experienced difficulty in employing qualified office staff. So I am pleased to be able to report that, thanks in no small measure to the efforts of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, the employment situation in Kalgoorlie has improved markedly. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962, 1 present the annual report of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
For the information of honourable members I present the sixth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum entitled  The Use of Liquefied Petroleum Gas in Australia. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the working party on the measurement of labour productivity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand from representations recently made to me by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations (ACSPA), which operates this Centre, that financial support has not been forthcoming in adequate amounts from Union sources to cover the on-going operations of the Centre after the initial grant of $40,000, made by the Commonwealth last year through the International Women 's Year (IWY) Appropriation, has been exhausted. 
The initial grant from the Commonwealth through the IWY Appropriation was provided to establish this Centre, and to cover the salaries of staff to run it in its initial period, as well as to pay for equipment and other incidental costs incurred. IWY grants were not designed to pay for the ongoing operations of a facility, such as the Working Women's Centre, beyond those costs incurred in its establishment. 
It is difficult to assess the value of the work done by this Centre in the areas of child care, equal pay and maternity leave. I understand the Centre has endeavoured to have Unions take up these, and other issues of concern to working women, and has also attempted to make working women more aware of such issues and to raise them with their Unions. 
Many women's organisations have, for some years, been concerned with these and other related matters of concern to working women. In addition, there is the N.S.W. Women's Trade Union Commission in Sydney, and the Queensland Women's Trade Union Committee, both of which also received Commonwealth funds made available through the IWY Appropriation, last year. More recently, a Working Women's Centre was established in Footscray in Melbourne with Commonwealth funds provided under the Australian Assistance Plan. There are also Working Women's Centres or Groups in Canberra, Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth. 
Further, within my own Department, the Women's Bureau, established first in 1963 as the Women's Section, is concerned with undertaking research into, and providing policy advice on these, and a wide range of other matters, relating to women in employment. 
When representations were originally made to me by ACSPA requesting additional Commonwealth financial support for this Centre, I said that, in the first instance, I would ask my Department to examine its work and make a report to me. I added that the Women's Bureau of my Department would be associated with this examination. In the meantime, this examination has been completed and a report has been forwarded to me. 
The question of further Commonwealth financial support for this Centre is currently under consideration by the Government, and a decision will be made as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The honourable member is concerned with the effects ofthe revision of the full-time allowance under NEAT which took place in February last. 
The purpose of the revision was to correct a situation where a single rate of allowance was payable to all full-time trainees, virtually irrespective of their personal circumstances. The decision to revise the allowances along these lines was taken in the knowledge that some trainees would experience a reduction in the allowance payable to them. At the same dme married trainees with one or more dependent children are, as a result of the same revision, receiving more than they did previously from NEAT, provided income available to them from other sources does not exceed the amounts allowed by the income test which is applied to the allowances. 
It is clear that there was no immediate large-scale withdrawal of full-time trainees because of the introduction of the revised system of allowances. An examination of the situation during the month after the revision came into full effect on 1 April indicating that in that time some 180 full-time trainees were known to have discontinued training before completing their courses because of the effects of the revision. This represented about 4 per cent of those in training at the time. 
A further study of the cases of 30 trainees who withdrew from training in Victoria during April resulted in an estimate of $138,000 as the amount which had been paid by way of allowances for their training up to the time when they withdrew. 
A trend to decline in the number of full-time trainees was apparent in the months after April but it is by no means clear that this can be attributed to the revision of the full-time allowance, especially since in September and October the number of full-time trainees increased by some 140, and 90, respectively. 
It has not been possible to provide an estimate of the cost of completing courses discontinued because of the revised pattern of allowances. However, the average cost per trainee under the former system of allowances was approximately $5,000 per annum. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
15 April 1976. 
The following have been represented at some or all meetings: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable members ' question: 
An interdepartmental working group has been established. 
15 April. The following have been represented at some or all meetings: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No. Because of the multitude of factors which currently influence demand for labour, it would be extremely difficult to isolate with any certainty the effect of the implementation of the 40 per cent investment allowance on recent employment trends. Such a task would involve a considerable diversion of already heavily committed resources without any guarantee of reaching definite conclusions. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Complete information covering the period 1961-1972 is not readily available. 
Unemployed Aboriginals in Grey Electorate (Question No. 1527) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Electoral Division of Grey includes the areas covered by Commonwealth Employment Service offices at Port Lincoln and Whylla and part of the areas covered by CES offices at Port Augusta, Port Pirie and Alice Springs. 
A special examination conducted in my Department shows that on 10 November 1976, there were 422 Aboriginal persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as unemployed within the Electoral Division of Grey. Included in this figure were 344 males (277 adults and 67 juniors) and 78 females (40 adults and 38 juniors). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission's procedure resulted in a modified deficit of $7,085,000 in respect of the Brisbane City Council's transport undertaking for the year 1974-75. 
This modified deficit was reflected in its recommendation regarding Queensland's overall claim for financial assistance. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The original and present entitlement is 34 positions made available for allocation by the Leader of the Opposition. 
My Department has been advised that the Leader of the Opposition has allocated these positions as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Fire Board is pursuing with all possible speed the collation and analysis of information received from various authorities regarding the implications of the proposed introduction of a standardised fire hose coupling. The results ofthe Board's evaluation will be determined as soon as possible. 
Price of Beer in Victoria (Question No. 1669) 
The Minister for Administrative 
Services has provided the .following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The total cost of this Royal Commission, as at 3 1 October 1976,was$1,712,964 
Specific costs are: 
$502,504 
$443,019 
$64,312 
$37,300 
$515,589 (0 $150,240. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) A somewhat similar Question on Notice (No. 2236)- although covering a shorter time span, namely, 1956 to 1970- was asked of the then Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  in October 1970 by the honourable member for Hindmarsh,  Mr Clyde  Cameron. This was answered by  Mr Lynch  on 7 September 1971  (Hansard  page 899) indicating, in effect, that the information sought was too lengthy and complex to incorporate in  Hansard]  but that copies were available at the House of Representatives Table Office. I am informed this information is still available at the Table Office. 
Subsequently,  Mr Cameron  obtained leave to have incorporated further information relevant to this matter, covering the same time span, in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 10 May 1972 (pages 2326-2334). This further information constituted, according to  Mr Cameron,  'the true position of the amount of ballot papers that are being returned in officially controlled ballots carried out by (a) the Electoral Officer and (b) the Industrial Registrar*. 
As it is not considered feasible or practicable to publish, or re-publish, this lengthy material in  Hansard,  it is suggested that the honourable member may wish to consult the two sources cited above. 
The additional information which has been collated, in the form of a Table, in order to answer the honourable member's present question up to the end of 1975, is also too lengthy and complex to be published in  Hansard.  Copies are, however, also available the House of Representatives Table - Office. 
This additional information, which was obtained from the Office of the Industrial Registrar and the Australian Electoral Office, provides details in respect ofthe year 1955 and of the years 1971-1975 inclusive i.e. the years for which information has not already been made available in the past, as well as supplementary material for the year 1956. 
The Austraiian Electoral Office has advised that its records relating to the year 1 955 are not complete and, consequently, the information provided for that year should not be regarded as exhaustive. 
In addition, the Office of the Industrial Registrar has advised that, with certain exceptions, records have not been kept of the numbers of ballot papers 'Returned Unclaimed'. Equally, the Australian Electoral Office has advised that statistics of ballot material returned unclaimed have not been kept as a separate item over the period 1955-1975 with the exception of a few elections. Therefore, except for these few elections, the 'Not Returned' column in the Table includes those ballot papers which were 'Returned Unclaimed'. 
Cost of Travel by Ministers  (Question No. 341) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Details prepared in my Department are shown in the tables below which are based on available records of processed accounts. 
Information in respect of official car transport in the A.C.T. has been provided by the Department of the Capital Territory and that for the Northern Territory by the Department ofthe Northern Territory. 
The only Government air services are those provided by the VIP fleet. No costs are shown for travel by VIP aircraft. Details of people travelling on such flights are tabled in the Parliament from time to time. 
The tables provide information in respect of each Minister in office as at April 1976 for the period since appointment to 31 May 1976. 
Because of the honourable member's interest, the tables include similar information for former Labor Ministers and for Opposition Office-holders. Details provided in respect of Labor Ministers are for the period from 1 July 1975 to November 1975 only, as the relevant information is not available prior to 1 July 1975. 
The tables do not include costs associated with overseas visits. Because of the length and complexity of the tables it is not proposed to publish them in  Hansard  Copies are, however, available in the House of Representatives Table Office. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
30. 
3. 
3. Each is paid the salary of a First Division officer. 
(a) S 1, (b) 49 (These figures include persons who were, at the relevant dates, technically First Division officers, but were performing other duties e.g. Ambassadors and statutory office holders). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There were 84 persons employed under the Public Service Act in the Electoral Division of Evans at 1 December 1976, as shown in the following table: 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
Following the absorption of elements of the former Department of the Media by the Departments of Administrative Services and Postal and Telecommunications, rationalisation of activities in those departments resulted in the abolition of 62 positions. 
-The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Various forms of flexible working hours are in operation in the general area of Commonwealth employment, but statistics are not centrally held. The extent to which flexible working hours may be worked in each Commonwealth Department or Authority depends upon their operating requirements. Where flexible working hours schemes have been introduced staff members respond in different ways in varying their patterns of attendance, but observing the constraints of departmental operating efficiency. 
The Public Service Board recently issued a Report on Departmental Evaluations of Flexible Working Hours. This report did not cover the totality of Commonwealth employment but only departments staffed under the Public Service Act. There is no information available on the number of full days taken under flexible hours schemes. The Report indicated, however, that data gathered by 4 departments showed that approximately 80 per cent of officers eligible to participate in flexible hours schemes took advantage of 'core time' off for at least one half day during a 3 month period. Core time is that period of the day when staff are usually required to be in attendance. 
The Board is not aware  of any  lack of proper supervision of flexible hours arrangements so far as departments are concerned. The Report mentioned above noted that manual recording of attendance was viewed by most departments as operating satisfactorily. However, it was also noted that flexible working hours schemes require careful oversight by management. With this in mind the Board is continuing to oversee the operation of schemes in departments and will draw to the attention of departmental managements any deficiencies that may become apparent 
The Board's Report on Departmental Evaluations of Flexible Working Hours is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that between August 1974 and August 1975 there were discussions and correspondence between the Commonwealth and the States at Prime Ministerial, Ministerial and official levels concerning the implications of the Commonwealth Industrial Court's judgment in  Moore  v.  Doyle,  and the matter of complementary Commonwealth and State legislation recommended in the Report of the Committee of Inquiry on Co-ordinated Industrial Organisations by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. 
No State Government has enacted legislation to complement the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration (Organisations) Act 1974 which was enacted to implement  Mr Justice  Sweeney's recommendations. 
In December 1974 the South Australian Parliament passed amending legislation to provide for a moratorium relating to actions based on invalidities of the  Moore  v.  Doyle  type. The South Australian Government also announced that it intended to prepare complementary legislation as recommended by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. 
Since coming to office the present Government has further pursued this matter. 
In January 1976, at the invitation of the South Australian Minister for Labour and Industry, I sent him my comments on draft South Australian legislation designed to complement the Conciliation and Arbitration (Organisations) Act 1974. 
At the April 1976 meeting of the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee further discussion of this matter was initiated by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
Subsequently, the matter was raised at a special meeting of the Conference of Ministers of Labour which I convened on 12 November 1976, and the current position concerning the question of possible complementary legislation was surveyed. It was agreed that the matter be considered at the meeting of the Conference next February. 
Governor-General: VIP Flights (Question No. 1349) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The number of young people recorded as approved for training under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP) in Federal and State Government Departments and Statutory Authorities and Local Government Authorities in each of the Commonwealth Employment Service districts in New South Wales up to midNovember 1976 was 13. Details are shown in the table below. I would point out that when these figures were extracted, the total number of persons recorded as approved under SYETP in New South Wales was 576. More recent statistics collected at 10 December, 1976 show that 770 males and 609 females, a total of 1379 young persons had been placed in training under the program, but further details of this group are not available at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A total of 430 220 placements of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) have been confirmed in the 1 1 months January to November 1976. This figure would include a small proportion of persons who were employed at the time of registration and were seeking improved positions or additional, part-time employment. 
and (3) Statistics are not collected on the duration of registrants ' past employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am advised that there has been continuing correspondence at Prime Minister/Premier level on the 'ownership of land' aspects of the Convention between May 1974 and April 1976. 
The correspondence referred to in ( 1 ) and (2) above does not indicate whether or not the Queensland Treaties Commission is examining any ILO Conventions other than Convention No. 107 in order to determine the necessity for changes in that State's law and practice to permit agreement to ratification. 
Publication of Progress Reports on Transport Projects  (Question No. 1744) 
The question of appointments to panels in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- both  deputy  presidents who head the panels and other commissioner members of the panels -is, of course, entirely a matter for the  President  of the Commission. Historically, and I think wisely, the appointees to the Commission over the years have been people who are highly experienced in the field of industrial relations. I refer to both the  deputy  presidential members and the commissioners. Two recent appointments to the Commission have been made by this Government. One was a  deputy president  who fulfilled those criteria that I have just mentioned. The other appointee was a former member of the union movement. It is inevitable with the appointment of people with this sort of a background that they will be brought into contactin their work in the Commission with the same sort of organisations and the same sort of problems with which they themselves dealt in their previous roles in industrial relations in whatever field they were operating-from the union movement in some cases, or representing employers or, indeed, fields of government employment in other cases. 
I have no doubt that the recent appointees to the Commission will be able to make the transition from their former field of endeavour to the Commission without any trouble. This has been our experience over a period of years. Just as  deputy  presidents of the Commission inevitably come into contact with people with whom they have been associated previously, so do the commissioners.  Mr Commissioner  Sweeney was recently appointed to the Commission by this Government. From memory, I understand that the panel of which he is a member deals with postal workers and workers of Telecom Australia. He will come into contact with former unions and members of unions with which he was previously associated. I have no doubt that as other commissioners have done before him, he will be able to assume his new role as commissioner bearing in mind the experience that he has had in the past. The withdrawal of a union from a hearing before a commissioner or  deputy president  seems to me a very childish action to take and one which is not in the best interests of industrial relations. 
-I am pleased to be able to say that the special youth employment training program, whereby subsidies are paid to employers of young people who meet certain criteria, has been an outstanding success. There are now over 4000 young people in training under this scheme who are at the same time, I emphasise, in productive employment. The criteria that have to be observed apply to farmers and farmers' sons just as they do to anybody else. Farmers and thensons are not excluded. They do not have to meet any criteria other than those that have to be met by anybody else. Broadly, the criteria are that the applicant, the young person, has to have tested the labour market and has to have been unemployed for 6 months out of the last 12 months. The employment has to contain in it a training component. In other words, it is not merely subsidised employment; training has to be provided. The training has to lead to the gaining of a skill which is in demand in the labour market and likely to lead to permanent employment. I am pleased to be able to tell the honourable member that many young people in country areasfarmers' sons and others- are now employed on the land, meeting the criteria of this scheme. As I said, the qualifications certainly do not need to be any different. When I announced the special youth employment training scheme late last year, I said that it would be reviewed early this year. That review is presently under way. 
-(Corangamite-Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations)- Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960, I present the annual report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year 1975-76. 
in reply- In concluding the second reading debate on what is generally agreed to be a most important Bill so far as the administration of government in this country is concerned I would like to make some references initially to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who led for the other side of the House in this debate. He alleged that the legislation which we are now considering would make the bureaucracy more inward looking than it is now and that in fact it would make the positions of permanent heads virtually a closed shop. I would  like to make it quite clear that there is absolutely no discrimination at all against the appointment to positions of permanent head of what might be normally termed outsiders in the sense that they are not members of the Public Service. Proper provisions have been made under this legislation to deal with outside appointments- the positions of appointees that will come up for review upon a change of government. The legislation will, in fact, encourage the appointment of persons from outside the Service but- this is the important point- such appointments will not be made on the conditions under which such people were appointed by the previous Government. That seems to be the whole tenor of the Opposition's attack on this legislation. This legislation will stop what the previous Government did, and we make no apology for that. Indeed, we are determined that such an attack on the integrity of the Public Service will not happen again. 
During his speech the Leader of the Opposition made what I can regard only as offensive remarks in relation to the Public Service as a whole and the very senior members of it in particular. When he was referring to the committee provided for in the Bill which will make recommendations on the appointment of permanent heads he questioned the likelihood of that committee picking the best man. I found that to be a most extraordinary statement. It impugns not only the impartiality but also the capacity, quite specifically, of such people as the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. The Leader of the Opposition then referred to a couple of appointments which have been made under this Government. The first was that of  Mr Shann  to the Public Service Board. He said that this appointment had not followed the requirements of this legislation and that the Government was getting in early before this Bill was passed. I should have expected the Leader of the Opposition to know that  Mr Shann  was being appointed to a statutory office, the appointment not being covered by the provisions of this Bill. The procedures applying to the appointment of such officers have been announced and I am informed that they were followed in this case. There cannot be any suggestion that this appointment was hurried through in some way before this legislation was passed, because the legislation does not apply to that appointment. 
As I remember, the Leader of the Opposition also referred by name to the appointment of  Mr Parkinson.  As his authority that the procedures as set out in this Bill had not been followed he quoted several journalists. My information is that the procedures outlined in the Bill were follewed although as the Bill had not been passed at that time there was no statutory requirement that they should be followed. Several other speakers during the debate referred to provisions m the Bill and the philosophy and principles of the Bill itself. I thought that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  gave a well-balanced appreciation of the principles which are embodied in the legislation. He recognised that there can be a proper role for outside appointments but under conditions which are known and open. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  returned to the theme of permanent heads and First Division appointments being made through what he termed the old boy network. He repeated the basic lack of confidence in the integrity of the Public Service as a whole. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  correctly identified the essential difference between appointments to the First Division from within the Public Service through the established candidates, to use the terminology of the Bill, and those from outside and therefore the need for proper procedures to deal with what are entirely different circumstances. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  made an extraordinary attack on the Public Service.  His  other main criticism seemed to be that he could not understand the Bill. I am sorry about that because if he had been able to understand it perhaps he might than have been able to make some constructive contribution to the debate. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  returned to the attack on the integrity of the Public Service. There seems to be an almost paranoic obsession about the Service. Political mandarins' seems to be the in phrase used in this debate by members of the Opposition; anything associated with it must be wrong. The honourable member for Grayndler raised one issue in particular, that is, the option open to terminate the appointment of permanent heads after there had been a change of government. He asked me to clarify one point. In such circumstances it is not obligatory that such appointments be changed. What will happen is that such appointments will automatically come up for review. After consideration a government may decide that change is required but there is no obligation for a change to be made. The Bill makes proper provision for appointments to permanent head level both from within and outside the Public Service. It sets out publicly known parameters, and it will now be open for everyone to see the procedures to be followed in both kinds of appointment which are recognised by both sides of the House as crucial to the continuation of good government. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the 12 months ending on 30 September 1976 the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate confirmed the existence of 7737 breaches by employers of the terms of awards made by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Inspectorate did not record any breaches of awards by employees. 
Proceedings were taken against 2 1 employers in the 12 months ended 30 September 1976. There were no proceedings over this period against employees. 
Proceedings and prosecutions recommended by Arbitration Inspectors for breach or non-observance of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904 or the regulations made thereunder or an award or order made under the Act may be authorised by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations or by the Secretary of that Department or by an 
-There are a couple of points that I would like to make. Firstly, I reiterate what the Treasurer said: The Government makes known its case to be presented at the national wage hearing at the proper time- when it appears before the Full Bench of the Commission. The Leader of the Opposition did not quote in precise terms, so far as I remember, the communique which was issued. 
I think it might be useful to have the precise words incorporated. 
-Read them if you like and get it over in that way. 
I will read them. The communique states: 
The Government indicated that insofar as these changes- 
That is changes in the consumer price index-  resulted in increases in the consumer price index, then, for the purpose of adjustment to award wages for movements in the consumer price index under the wage indexation principles, the Commonwealth would not be arguing that the index should be 'discounted ' for these particular increases. 
That is the quote from the communique of the time. 
-To remove any doubt, I quoted: 
The Government indicated that insofar as these changes- 
I interpolated there: 'These changes being changes in the CPI due to the introduction of new Medibank arrangements'. That should remove any misunderstanding. The Government is concerned that the question of the new Medibank arrangements be dealt with on a once and for all basis, not in a piecemeal way as has happened in several industrial cases recently. Therefore we believe the proper place to resolve it is at national wage case hearings. The Government case, when it is presented at the proper time, will take into account what was said earlier. 
Following Commissioner Clarkson 's decision I asked the general managers of the motor vehicle manufacturers mentioned to come to see me. As I remember it, one element of Commissioner Clarkson 's decision related to extension of relief time. As there was some uncertainty at that stage I wanted clarification whether this could be interpreted as going to the question of standard hours of work, which of course can be determined by a Full Bench of the Commission only. I wanted to seek clarification with the companies as to what the situation might be. Following the discussions to which the honourable gentleman has referred I decided- because to some extent the question had been decided in a previous decision- that the decision of Commissioner Clarkson did not go to the question of standard hours of work, and that was the end of the matter. 
It is true that the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service are operating under considerable difficulties, both in relation to their staffing requirements and the physical space in which they have to operate. The Governmment recognised the difficulties of the CES and also the fact that its operations had not been fundamentally reviewed for almost 30 years. As a result of that and the obvious difficulties that were being experienced by employers trying to find labour and job seekers seeking vacancies, the Government appointed  Mr John  Norgard to undertake a fundamental review of the Service and its operations.  Mr Norgard  has been engaged in that review for some months and has visited a great number of offices in most States. I understand that in a week or so he will be going to Queensland to undertake the same exercise there. 
I expect to have well before the middle of the year  Mr John  Norgard 's report which hopefully will identify the problems to which the honourable member has referred and which, I am sure, will make constructive suggestions towards their solution. Of course, as soon as the Government receives his report it will give close attention to it. 
I find this matter raised by the Opposition today a classic example of crocodile tears. I find it extraordinary that the Opposition, having caused the highest rate of unemployment in Australia and, even worse, supporting policies which would guarantee its continuation, should bring forward this matter. I find it extraordinary that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  should speak in the way that he did. Let us look at what led to the present situation. I make no apology for repeating figures which I have given in this House previously because they bear repeating. When Labor came to office unemployment was 136 000. When it left office unemployment was 328 000. Unemployment in the under-20 age group was approximately 80 000 when Labor came to office. It was 132 000 when it left office. There is no doubt whatever who caused the high rate of unemployment in Australia. It is important to realise why it was caused and to avoid such a situation happening again. In 1973, 1974 and 1975 average award wages rose by approximately 56 per cent. Gross domestic product during that same time rose by approximately 6 per cent. There can be only one result of figures like those. Because of the huge rise in the labour cost much of Australian industry has been priced out of the market and naturally this has led to reduced employment. 
The position is shown in stark clarity when one starts to make a few international comparisons. Over the most recent 12 months, despite some moderation in the rate of increase in wages in Australia, hourly earnings in manufacturing increased by 16 per cent. In Canada they increased by 13.2 per cent, in the United States by 8.2 per cent, in Japan by 11.8 per cent, in France by 14.4 per cent, in Germany by 6.8 per cent, and even in the United Kingdom by only 14.4 per cent. In the face of such a situation how can the Opposition and those who support what the honourable member for Gellibrand has put forward today expect Australian employers to compete in overseas markets, or for that matter expect Australian manufacturers to compete in respect of imports on the home market? If such a situation continues the hard won gains of the recent devaluation will be rapidly frittered away. Yet the announced policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and now I presume of the Opposition, is as a result of seeking total full indexation to bring about a continuation of just the sort of situation that they themselves created. 
Despite some slowing down in the rate of wage rises, which I mentioned a moment ago, we are still way out of line with our major trading partners. There has been a tremendous loss of competitiveness which the figures that I have just cited show so clearly. We cannot regain our relative competitive position under the present wage or economic policies advocated by the Opposition and put forward again today by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Those policies created the high unemployment in this country. The Opposition persists in advocating policies which would guarantee its continuation. It has shown a completely selfish unconcern for the unemployed. It has put even more people in vulnerable industries at risk, particularly those industries which face competition from imports and which employ a considerable part of the work force. These industries have been put in a vulnerable position and as a result the people they employ become vulnerable themselves. 
Excessive wage increases progressively have priced certain classes of labour out of the market. This has not applied to any extent to skilled or experienced labour. As we know from our experience and from reading many reports there are still shortages of labour in many of these areas. But the labour being priced out of the market is the inexperienced, the unskilled and, of course, the young of this country. These people represent the great majority of the present unemployed. It is these groups that both the Opposition and the trade union movement hold themselves out to be greatly concerned about. In point of fact the trade union movement, and again today the Opposition, have put forward the same policies by pushing for whatever they reckon they can get in the marketplace regardless of the adverse economic indications, making the position of these disadvantaged groups even worse than it is now. 
It would appear that the advocates of the policies that have been put forward today are guilty of gross hypocrisy. On the one hand they are appearing as the defenders and supporters of the unemployed; on the other hand they are deliberately and coldbloodedly following policies which if successful would not only render the present position of the unemployed even more difficult but also would add to their numbers. One basic fact that the Opposition has always been unable to accept is the basic economic truth that unemployment, inflation and wage restraint are completely and totally interrelated. Where wage restraint is lacking inflation becomes inevitable, with all the consequences that I have just described. The real causes of the present situation are the excessive past wage demands and in some cases present wage demands. 
By aligning itself with this element of the trade union movement which throws over not only the interests and concern for its fellow workers but also for the unemployed, the Opposition is directly contributing to the slowdown in the rate of Australia's economic recovery. Employers are becoming much more selective in their attitude to recruiting workers. They are requiring a broader range of skills and in many instances higher standards and that is making it constantly more and more difficult for those whom I might describe as being at the margin of the work force to gain employment. 
Surveys were undertaken, I understand, during the time of the Labor Government which indicated that there was a hard core of unemployment in this country of at least 60 000 people. Those people were not considered to be eligible for sickness benefits or unemployment benefits. I understand that the report concluded that neither should they be considered as being in the normal unemployment category. I presume that as this was a fairly recent survey the numbers have not altered greatly. To this number is now being added those in the work force with minimal skills and/or minimal experience; that is, those people who are extending that margin. The margin which was previously of the order of 60 000 people is now being constantly widened by the sort of policies and the sort of actions about which the honourable member for Gellibrand has been talking. Because of wage rates, employers are unable to employ or are at best very cautious about employing people. Nonetheless, despite the number of registrations for employment, particularly those in the category I have described, there are innumerable documented cases which continue to pour into my office and those of supporters of the Government, and I would strongly suspect into the offices of members of the Opposition too, of employers being unable to fill advertised vacancies even in areas where registrations for unemployment are at a very high level. I doubt that this is due to any one reason; it is due probably to a combination of reasons. But whatever the reasons, the fact remains that quite well paid jobs are not being filled, even in areas where the level of registered unemployed is fairly high. 
It was because of this situation and also because a fundamental review has not been undertaken for nearly 30 years, that we instituted the inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service. Honourable members may remember that a question was asked of me on this subject during question time today. The inquiry is being undertaken by  Mr John  Norgard who will be looking at the sort of problems that I have just been outlining. Clearly there are problems in satisfying the requirements of those who are seeking labour and those who are seeking jobs. There is an imbalance, or something wrong anyway, when those 2 sectors cannot be brought together in areas and at times of advertised high unemployment.  Mr Norgard  's report, which as I mentioned earlier today I hope to have before the middle of this year, should enable us to identify those problems or combinations of problems more clearly and should spell out the action required to correct them. But m the meantime the Government has instituted a series of measures that I will explain in a moment. 
What did the Opposition do when confronted with the problems that it itself had created? Its only reaction was to institute the Regional Employment Development scheme which proved so costly that subsequently the Opposition itself had to abandon it. Consistently since then, and again - 
You abolished it in about September 1975. The Labor Government abolished it. It made the decision to abolish it and that was that. The Opposition, having abolished it, is now advocating that it be reintroduced. The only measure that it can suggest to deal with this current situation is one which it itself tried and abandoned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Oxley knows that that is not a point of order. I suggest that he resume his seat. 
-By contrast, the Government has instituted a series of measures aimed at specific groups in the community who are experiencing employment difficulties at present. I mention first the extension of the National Employment and Training scheme, which at the time the previous Government introduced it we acknowledged was excellent in concept but which fell down badly in administration. When we came into government approximately 7500 people were in training under the NEAT scheme, many of them taking formal full-time tertiary courses. We changed the direction of the NEAT scheme; we shifted the emphasis to in-plant training, that is, people getting training for jobs in which there is a labour market demand and at the same time having them in productive employment. I am pleased to be able to tell the House that there are now more than 14000 people in the NEAT scheme, of whom more than 1 1 000 are in parttime training while engaged in productive employment. Of that 1 1 000, some 4000 are the young people who come under the special youth employment training program for those aged between 15 and 19 years. 
We have also recently introduced the completely new apprenticeship scheme known as CRAFT- Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Full-time Training-which has had a very favourable response from all sections of the community including, I am pleased to say, the trade union movement. We have introduced preapprenticeship and accelerated apprenticeship training schemes in conjunction with the States. I would like to mention briefly the community youth support scheme which, I am pleased to be able to inform the House, now has something like 60 projects in operation all over Australia and involving some 12 000 young people. Sustained reduction in unemployment can come only from the control of inflation. If that is not achieved, any improvement can be only temporary. The policies of the Opposition cannot be successful in controlling inflation. They have been tried and they have failed. We cannot spend our way out of unemployment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is set out in the following table. The table indicates those States which have agreed to ratification of the Conventions concerned up to and including those adopted at the 60th Session of the International Labour Conference. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am informed that the re-constituted National Committee for the 1 976-79 triennium, the names of the members of which I announced on 25 November 1976, decided, at its 31st Meeting held on 10 December 1976, that the Committee's Third Annual Report (for the year ended 30 June 1976) will be presented to me by the present Committee, but that it will include a Preamble (signed by the present  Chairman (Dr C. A. Hughes)  ) explaining that the Report had been approved by the present Committee, although some of its members were not members of the Committee during the period under review. 
I am informed that the Report is presently with the printer. I anticipate tabling it during the 1977 Autumn Sittings. 
Transport Costs: Effects on Consumer Prices  (Question No. 1748) 
I regret that I am not in a position to confirm or deny the honourable member's forecast, nor am I able to make a comment on the actual figures that he has quoted. However, I shall draw them to the attention of my colleague in the Senate. If they are correct, I suggest that they show that the Commonwealth Police has been doing an outstanding job in this area. 
I am pleased to be able to tell the honourable member for Mackellar that I have obtained agreement for my Department to recruit 100 permanent and ISO temporary staff for the Commonwealth Employment Service. In common with all Government departments the CES, which is part of my Department, was not immune from the Government decisions on staff ceilings taken earlier this year, nor the Government decision requiring departments to meet from within existing resources costs incurred as a result of decisions in respect of which no funds were provided in the Budget. In these circumstances, quite properly there followed discussions between officers of my Department and the Department of Finance on the question of offsetting savings to cover the costs of employing the increased staff that I have just mentioned. Difficulties were experienced in identifying areas from which these offsetting savings could be met. I am pleased to be able to tell the honourable member, as he would have gathered from the fact that recruitment is now proceeding, that these difficulties have been overcome. I believe that the increased permanent and temporary staff which are now being recruited will mean a significant addition to the services being provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The number of electors enrolled in each Electoral Division as at 28 January 1977 is set out in the attached table compiled by the Australian Electoral Office. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable gentleman 's question: 
After consultation with departments, agreement has been reached on the main elements to be included iri the Bill. Approval ha$ been given for the drafting to be completed as soon as possible, Instructions are about to be given to the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Cabinet in February 1 976. 
No formal announcement was made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following tables provide statistics on employed and unemployed persons in the construction industry during September in each year 1971-1976. September 1976 is the most recent month for which data are available for both employed and unemployed persons. 
To extract figures for all months in each year would involve more clerical labour than can be made available with current staffing levels in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. However, the figures for the employed group, on a monthly basis, are available from the ABS publications to which reference has been made. 
Unemployed in the Construction Industry' are the numbers of unemployed persons registered for employment in the construction industry with the Commonwealth Employment Service. The occupational categories covered in this instance are skilled building and construction workers, building labourers, and other building and construction workers. The data from which these figures are extracted are available at the Central Office of my Department in Melbourne, but the work involved in extracting them on a monthly basis would be even greater than that required for the extraction of the required data from the employment series. 
So far as associated professional groups are concerned, neither ABS nor CES data are available in the form requested. 
The Professional Employment Service at the Central Office of my Department does however hold partial statistics for each month from September 1973 for some categories of related professional workers registered as unemployed, but again, current resources are not sufficient for detailed extraction from them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The Government is not currently proceeding with any such legislation. 
By ratifying ILO Convention No. 98-Right of Association and Collective Bargaining, 1949, the Commonwealth Government entered into what amounts to an international treaty obligation to give effect to the provisions of the instrument in Australia. Because the Convention is partly within the legislative competence of both the Commonwealth and State Parliaments, the agreement of the six State Governments was sought and obtained for ratification. 
As the law and practice in all jurisdictions, both Commonwealth and State, complies with the requirements of Convention No. 98 already, there is no necessity, nor intention, to enact legislation to implement the provisions of the instrument. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is not currently proceeding with any such legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The breakdown of expenditure on the Regional Employment Development Scheme sought by the honourable member is not available, nor can it be made available without a significant and unacceptable diversion of staff resources in my Department. What is required is an examination of each of about 9000 projects to identify total expenditure on the project and decide to which of the several headings required by the question it should be allocated. I think the honourable member will agree that allocation of resources of this magnitude for this task in the present circumstances cannot be justified. However, I would be happy to make a computer printout, from which the information required by the honourable member could be extracted, available to him or his staff should he wish to undertake the task. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A total of 28 leases were terminated and 28 leases were taken up during 1976. Details of the leases are scheduled below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Persons undergoing training under the NEAT scheme are not included in the statistics of persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service published in my Department's Monthly Review of the Employment Situation. 
Of the 1 3 437 people undergoing training under NEAT at the end of January 1977, 10 759 were in in-plant training arrangements; that is, they were in employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1976 I asked my Department to prepare a brief paper on the Regional Employment Development Scheme which my office could use to meet general inquiries about the Scheme. This paper became available from my office in September 1 976.I am sending the honourable member a copy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Aside from the formality for creating a position of Director consideration has not proceeded regarding the establishment of a Bureau of Labour Economics in the present circumstances of restraint. 
Analysis of labour market statistics continues of course to be undertaken by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, the main statistics being compiled by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Unemployment levels for Australia, calculated by summing the number of persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as unemployed at the Friday nearest to the end of each month in (a) 1972, (b) 1974 and (c) 1 976 to September, are shown in the following table: 
I am not aware of the situation that the honourable member describes. Guidelines are, of course, laid down for eligibility for entry to Australia having regard to the previous experience and skills of the applicants wanting to come to this country and the labour market demand for that experience and/or skill. The Commonwealth Employment Service is working under great pressure at present. That position will be alleviated to a considerable extent by the recent decision of the Government in agreeing to an increase of 300 officers in the staff ceilings of the CES. That is a direct result of comments made to me by  Mr Norgard  during the course of his inquiry which amounts, as the Prime Minister has just said, to a fundamental review of all the operations of the CES. I hesitate to do anything which would add to the work load of the CES in its present difficult circumstances, but nevertheless I will see that the honourable member's suggestion receives detailed consideration. 
The honourable member has asked a number of questions. This issue has been brought to my attention. As far as I am able to establish, the facts are these: Population Services International originally applied to the Commonwealth Employment Service on or about 21 January this year, calling itself the Phillip Medical Centre- a group of doctors setting up a medical centre at Phillip in the Australian Capital Territory. At that time it lodged requests with the Commonwealth Employment Service for 9 professional, semi-professional and clerical staff. The applicants selected by the CES were interviewed, as the honourable member said, at the Woden CES office on 8 February by a representative of the firm. Final interviews subsequently took place also at the Woden office, I understand, on 16 and 17 February. All the vacancies in fact were filled by referrals from the CES. The CES did not check or consider it necessary to check with the ACT Health Commission before assisting the Phillip Medical Centre in filling its vacancies because the CES was under the clear impression that the centre was, as had been represented to the CES, a medical centre. It was only after the interviews were completed that several applicants then stated to the CES staff that they were not prepared to accept positions with the Phillip Medical Centre because it was explained to them during their final interviews that abortions would be performed at this centre. I might add that the CES has no actual obligation to assist all employers seeking its help to recruit staff but it does assist provided an employer is operating within the law. In this instance the CES had no reason to believe that in fact this employer was not operating within the law. I am not aware of any staff resigning from Population Services International in Sydney over working conditions. I am not saying that that did not happen. All I am saying is that I am not aware of it. The CES does not normally look into the industrial relations of the firms to which it sends applicants. However, if it is brought to the notice of the CES that there may be a breach of a Federal award or of conditions or terms of employment the matter is immediately investigated by the arbitration inspectorate of my Department to see whether appropriate action should be taken. If the honourable member believes and has evidence to suggest that that in fact has occurred at some other branches of this organisation then appropriate action will be taken. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  for enabling the Opposition's dangerous and destructive wages policies- the anti-job policies- to be debated in this House. The Opposition pretends to be concerned with inflation and yet blindly persists in advocating policies which are certain to add to it. The honourable member for Gellibrand also, I am glad to say, referred to improved company results. I say in response to that that it is just as well for future employment in Australia that companies' results have improved. Thanks to the disastrous policies of the Labor Government company profits declined to such an extent that 200 000 people lost their jobs. The Opposition apparently still does not realise that companies which do not make profits do not employ people. 
Wages policy is a crucial part of general economic policy and most Australians now recognise that developments on wages have important implications for sustained economic recovery. The very rapid growth in real wages in Australia over recent years has been a major factor contributing to unemployment and inflation. The long term annual average growth in real wages in this country is about 3 per cent. In the 3 years to the end of 1 975 real wages grew by an amount of approximately equal to 6 years of normal growth. The continuing excessively high real level of wages must inevitably retard economic recovery because it forces employers to pass on the increased labour costs in an attempt to lift their profits to a level sufficient to provide an adequate return on investment. Apparently the honourable member for Gellibrand has forgotten some words spoken by his own Leader when he was Prime Minister. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  used these words: 
The other thing that I wanted to say in this connection is the cause of unemployment now. And it is, frankly, the excessive wage increases. It's always unpalatable of course for any Labor leader or any Labor member to say anything about wages and salaries about organised labour because as in Britain and New Zealand there are institutional affiliations between the Labor Party and the employees organisations. But one has got to bc frank in these facts. 
Despite this seeming awareness of the Leader of the Opposition, and the undoubted recognition of this very fact as I mentioned a moment ago by the majority of Australians, what do we now find? We find the unions seeking not only maintenance of the excessively high level of real wages but also further adjustments for previous price movements. These developments on the wages front are occurring at a time when the economy is on a moderate growth path but with a continuation of the current rate of inflation posing a threat to sustained economic growth at our long term capacity. 
The consumer price index increased by 14.4 per cent in the year to the December quarter compared with 14 per cent in the preceding 12 month period. Notwithstanding these figures there was, in fact, a considerable underlying improvement during 1976. To get an accurate picture allowance must be made for the way in which the changed arrangements for health insurance- the Medibank changes- have affected the CPI. The first effect was to reduce the recorded increase in the September and December quarters of 1975. Subsequently, Medibank changes boosted the recorded increase in the recent December quarter. The Opposition apparently continues to refuse to face the fact that health costs have to be paid for somehow. Abstracting those changes to Medibank, the CPI increased by 10.8 per cent in the year to December 1976, compared with 16.7 per cent from the previous year. The reduction in the underlying rate of inflation is also evident in other price indicators; for instance in the downward trend in building and manufacturing sector price increases. While aggregate demand and output have recently grown slightly the labour market still shows signs of hesitation with unemployment being a continuing cause of concern. Significant improvement in that area cannot be expected until the economic recovery is further advanced and sustained. 
The decision to devalue the Australian dollar, forced upon the Government by a deterioration in our underlying external situation and insufficient wage moderation in 1 975-76, is likely to result in a pause in the progress we have made in reducing inflation. Devaluation can have positive benefits as part of a strategy aimed at fostering a balanced, sustainable economic recovery. For instance, devaluation by raising the price for imported goods enables manufacturers of import competing goods to improve their position in the Australian domestic market and in so doing to raise the level of employment in those industries. Exporters benefit in that their real income in Australian currency is increased, and as a consequence they too are encouraged to increase their level of investment and consumption with obvious beneficial effects on the Australian labour market. In addition to these benefits, there are some immediate cost increases which are unavoidable as domestic prices will increase for manufacturers and consumers who require imported goods. It is vital that these rises be kept to the minimum and that flow on and second round price effects, particularly through wage rises, be avoided to the maximum extent possible. For these reasons, the Government will be doing all in its power to ensure that wage increases are kept within reasonable bounds in 1977. The fight against inflation is a battle in which all Australians must be prepared to play their part. Only a concerted, collective effort can ensure successful attainment of the common objectives of economic recovery, the reduction of unemployment and the creation of sustainable prosperity. 
I turn now to the elements of wage indexation itself. Principle 1 states that the Commission will adjust wages each quarter in relation to the most recent movement in the consumer price index, unless it is persuaded to the contrary by those seeking to oppose the adjustment'. The Commission has exercised the discretion afforded to it under this principle by awarding less than the full percentage increase in the CPI in 2 of its last 3 decisions. In so doing, the Commission, in the Government's view, made a positive contribution to the moderation of the wage/price spiral. We consider it unfortunate that the Commission decided to award the full percentage CPI increase in its most recent decision in November 1976. It was, however, significant and pleasing to note that the Commission rejected the claims for increases greater than that movement and refused to apply its decision to over-award payments and allowances generally. Despite this most recent decision and its effect on the process of winding down the rate of inflation, the discretionary nature of principle 1 is unquestionable. 
There is likewise a general recognition in the community of the need for wage restraint in the context of the currently existing exceptional and compelling circumstances. In recent cases the Government has submitted that if there was an expectation of automatic full percentage indexationwe have constantly argued that there is no basis for such an expectation, given the discretionary nature of principle 1 -the acceptance of the Commission's 2 partial percentage decision in 1976 established that such an argument no longer exists. While the Government acknowledges that the Commission regards full percentage adjustment as the object of the package, at present such a policy must be tempered by the realisation that a temporary reduction in the level of real wages would be of benefit to the unemployed, in that they would be able to find work more quickly than would otherwise have been the case. Such an improvement results from the fact that a fall in real wages makes labour relatively less costly to the employer who thereby enjoys a reduction in the real unit cost of production, an increase in the profit margin and so is encouraged to increase the size of his work force. Indeed, in the longer-term less than full percentage indexation now will enable renewed growth in living standards for all, sooner rather than later. However, in light of the likely effect of the Commission's November 1 976 decision on economic recovery, the depressed state of the labour market and the magnitude of the December quarter CPI increase, it is imperative in the Government's view that the Commission should not award a wage increase amounting to more than approximately 30 per cent indexation in respect of the December 1976 quarter. That is the basis of the case which we have just put to the Commission. 
In a detailed review of the economic situation, the Commonwealth argued that the distortions to key economic relationships in the economy, which had developed during 1973-74 and 1974-75, had been only partly corrected by the end of 1 976. It referred particularly to the excessive growth in wages by comparison with most other elements in the economy. The Commonwealth stated that the speed with which sustained economic recovery and the restoration of high employment can be achieved, remains dependent on the rate of adjustment of real wages to their normal, balanced relationship with other elements in the economy. The quicker this occurs, the sooner sustained economic recovery and increased job opportunities will be achieved. The Commonwealth stated that devaluation of the Australian dollar has restored the competitive positions of export and import competing industries which had been called upon to bear an unfair burden in the fight against inflation. If the benefits of devaluation are to be successfully preserved, and if the capacity of these industries to increase activities and employment are to be realised, it is essential that there be maximum wages restraint. The Commonwealth stated that it was firmly committed to tax reform and tax reduction but only when these can be responsibly undertaken. It also pointed to the indexation of personal income tax, and other measures already introduced by it, which will amount to savings of over $3 billion by 1977-78. 1 stress that figure. 
The Commonwealth responded to the comment by the  President  of the Commission during the first day's hearing raising doubts as to the appropriateness of the CPI for wage adjustment. It stated its view that there were obvious deficiencies in the use of the CPI for this purpose and asked the Commission to acknowledge this. The Commonwealth further submitted that less frequent national wage case hearings would be less disruptive to the economy. Finally, the Commonwealth submitted that no more than a flat amount of $2.90 should be awarded in the current case. This would equitably compensate wage and salary earners for cost increases in respect of basic medical and hospital services under the revised Medibank arrangements. As members are no doubt aware the  President  of the Commission raised a number of significant matters during the course of the present national wage case hearing. He sought the views of the parties to the conduct of an inquiry by the Commission into the appropriateness of the CPI and further as to whether we should revert to a system whereby a wage has 2 elements, one which is perhaps called a primary element, as it used to be called, which is altered at fairly frequent intervals and one which is called a secondary element which is altered at less frequent intervals. I do not propose to place the Government's views before this House until after our response has been given to the Commission. I am certain members would agree that to do otherwise would be inappropriate. We attach fundamental importance to the responsibilities which the parties to wage determination have in the process of restoring economic stability and progress. Failing the acceptance of that responsibility, particularly since the decision to devalue was taken, means that the achievement of the economic objectives to which all Australians aspire- the elimination of inflation, the creation of new jobs to employ a growing workforce, the reduction of unemployment and the restoration of strong economic growthwould be put in peril. 
The Government notes that the Commission will continue to provide a forum for consensus in the wages area. Before the last national wage case we participated in discussions under the chairmanship of the  President  of the Commission and put forward a proposal for the consideration of the major parties. The Government's proposal did not find acceptance at that time but, as we have said before, we remain available to participate in any discussions that are approached by the other parties concerned with a positive and genuine desire to explore what common ground may be available. In the absence of any such consensus, decisions in the wages field in 1977, including those to be taken in the national wage indexation case, will be of crucial importance to the nation. The Government recognises that there are factors other than economic considerations involved in the determination of wages, especially social and industrial considerations. However, the prevailing conditions make it abundantly clear that the Commission must give greater weight to economic considerations in its adjudications in the forthcoming hearings. The plain facts are that the unemployment situation has improved only marginally and economic recovery is still in its rather fragile initial stages. With the passage of time, therefore, there is a continuing necessity for the position to be treated most cautiously. 
Yes, I do remember the honourable member's question last year. Investigations by my Department indicate that the gross cost of employment creation schemes is reduced by approximately 25 per cent due to savings in unemployment benefit and increased tax receipts. Employment creation schemes deal only with the symptoms of the unemployment problem in Australia and not with its causes. The basic causes of our high unemployment are the record rate of inflation caused by the policies of the previous Government and the excessively high wage level, with people pricing themselves out of jobs. This Government, unlike its predecessor, is tackling the problems as its first priority. One area of great concern has been the level of government spending. It reached record levels and record rates of increase under the previous Government, which resulted in record levels of budget deficit. Even if the cost of employment creation schemes is reduced by the 25 per cent that I mentioned a moment ago due to factors such as savings in unemployment benefit and increases in tax, such schemes are extremely expensive. No way has yet been found in which such schemes would not add to the budget deficit that I mentioned a moment ago. We, unlike the previous Government, are attacking not only the basic causes- that is, inflation and the excessively high wage level which were not tackled by the previous Government- but also in relation to the problems that these cause we have directed our programs to specific groups in the community who are finding special difficulties. I mention the expansion of the National Employment and Training scheme which now has some 14 000 people under training, the great majority of them in productive employment, I emphasise; the special youth training programs that we have introduced; the incentives to employers through the Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Full Time Training system; the Community Youth Support Service scheme which now has some 60 projects going throughout Australia, involving over 12 000 young people, keeping them motivated towards work, with a sense of purpose in life. We, unlike the previous Government, are attacking the basic causes while at the same time offering contructive programs to those who are particularly affected. 
I am aware of the concern that the honourable gentleman has for those of his constituents who have been gravely affected by the recent fires in Victoria. Indeed, all of those honourable members whose electorates have been so affected have expressed similar concern. I am also aware of the costs involved in rehabilitating farms, including the cost of fencing. As far as I can recall, this is the first time that this Government, in conjunction with the Victorian Government, has introduced a form of assistance to help people faced with the cost of restoring boundary fences abutting public roads and railway lines. That assistance will be of tremendous help at least in getting around the farms a perimeter within which stock can be held. As to the feasibility of developing an employment scheme around this program, the Government would have to look very closely at any proposals which involved a direct subsidy to private employment in one set of circumstances which may not be - 
I will show the honourable gentleman what I am reading. There it is. Does he want to look? 
I am aware that the 2 unions to which the honourable member referred have for some time been engaged in discussions relating to possible amalgamation. Any amalgamation, of course, of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act can be achieved only through the processes provided for in that Act. At the present stage, as far as I am aware, no formal steps have been taken under the Act towards an amalgamation between the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. The Act requires, first of all, that the organisations must jointly submit to the Industrial Registrar in writing a scheme of amalgamation which sets out the particulars of it. They must apply for the approval of the Registrar for the submission of that arrangement, which they have put to him in writing, to the members of their organisations for ballot. There is provision in the part of the Act relating to amalgamation for objections to be made to any proposed organisations. Under the Act objections can be made by other organisations or by individual people, and the Industrial Registrar is obliged to hear those objections. 
If after that he is satisfied that the requirements of the Act relating to amalgamations have been met, in other words that no objections that he has received have been sustained, he gives permission for the scheme as submitted to him to be put to the members of the organisation for secret ballots, separate ballots to be held in each case unless the organisation to be absorbed represents less than 5 per cent of the membership of the absorbing organisation. Assuming that both organisations are required to hold a ballot, under the provisions of the Act at least 50 per cent of the members entitled to vote must vote and at least 50 per cent plus one of the formal votes recorded must be in favour of the amalgamation. I make this final point: It is absolutely fundamental to the proposition of amalgamation contained in the Act that individual members of organisations must first of all be given maximum opportunity to lodge any objections they may have to it, and secondly they must be given full and adequate opportunity to express their opinion as to whether or not the amalgamation should take place. 
-I am aware of the situation to which the honourable gentleman has referred, and I welcome his question. It raises an important issue which has already received some consideration by the Government and my Department in a somewhat wider context. I am now in a position to make a statement to the House on the issues that he has raised, and immediately after question time I will be seeking leave to inform the House what we intend to do in the immediate future. 
I am pleased to be able to inform honourable members that the regulations to which the Prime Minister referred last year have been approved. They come into operation on their gazettal, which I understand was yesterday. They require each organisation registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to file with the Industrial Registrar by 1 September of each year the details of elections to be held in the 12 months commencing from 1 January of the following year. If no nominations are due during the period they are required to file a return to that effect. The first 12-month period will apply from 1 January 1978. 
The information which has been filed is required to be published by the Industrial Registrar in such newspapers as are likely to come to the attention of members of the organisations concerned. In relation to elections for the first 6 months of each year, the information must be published in the October immediately preceding that 6 month period. The information in relation to those elections for the second 6 months of each year must be published in the April preceding that 6 month period. With respect to the interim period between now and 1 January 1978, each organisation must file with the Registrar details of the type that I mentioned a moment ago by 1 July. If no nominations are due in that period they must file a return to that effect. The Industrial Registrar will be required to publish that information on the first Saturday in August of this year. 
These regulations reflect the Government's firm belief that an informed membership is essential to the democratic control of industrial organisations. Members can participate fully in the affairs of their organisation only if they are fully informed about them so that they are able to act in a constructive and democratic way. The regulations are a further step in implementing our policy of encouraging representative industrial organisation, composed of members who are informed about their affairs and operating democratically to further the legitimate industrial interests of all those who might benefit. 

 - Mr Speaker, as required by section 7 of the Representation Act I present the certificate of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer setting forth the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth and of the several States in accordance with the latest statistics of the Commonwealth. I also present the notification made by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer under section 1 1 of the Representation Act setting forth the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in several States. I seek leave to make a very brief statement. 
by leave- The Government has decided to provide the opportunity for individuals and employers with particular employment problems to discuss them with senior Commonwealth Employment Services staff. Selected offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Sydney, Melbourne and Geelong will open on late shopping nights for a trial period until the end of April. The offices will be: Sydney- Caringbah, Fairfield, Hornsby, Hurstville, Liverpool; Melbourne Frankston, Northcote, Prahran, Ringwood, St Albans; Geelong- Corio. Their location and phone numbers are listed in an attachment which I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard. 
-The aim is to provide a convenient time for those with particular employment problems, be they unemployed persons, parents of young school leavers without jobs or employers who cannot fill vacant positions, to review fully with senior CES staff, including vocational psychologists, what their difficulties are and how they might be further assisted. Advertisements will be placed in local suburban newspapers in the districts in which the trial arrangements will operate. They will invite individuals and employers with particular problems to ring for an after hours appointment for the night on which the selected offices will be open. Persons who call at the office without prior appointments will be given appointments either for that night or for a later date. Offices participating in the scheme have been selected for their proximity to busy shopping centres. They have also been selected so as to test the idea over a range of different districts. 
The night of the week on which an office will open will be the main late shopping night for the district. The hours of opening will be 6.30 to 9.00 p.m. The CES offices will not be conducting normal business at night. Persons who want to register for employment and employers who want to lodge vacancies should therefore continue to do this in normal office hours. We will be monitoring these trial arrangements so that we may determine whether they should be continued and to what extent offices in other districts and cities could, with advantage, be included in the scheme. I shall keep honourable members informed. I present the following paper: 
by leave- I make this statement on behalf of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  As many honourable members will know, the Government has been exploring with State governments the financial arrangements that should be made in respect of the protection afforded to Commonwealth property by fire brigade services in the States. There have been various questions on this matter in both Houses of the Parliament and many other requests for information on the matter have also been received. It is believed that it would be helpful to make a brief statement on the arrangements that have now been made. 
In 1905 the Commonwealth Government introduced telephone concessions to fire brigades by which the Commonwealth contributed to the cost of fire protection services to Commonwealth property. On 1 September 1975 the Australian Telecommunications Commission, in its capacity as a separate statutory authority, discontinued some of these concessions. New arrangements to replace these concessions have now been agreed to in principle by all the State governments and payments under the new scheme are being made. Under these arrangements the payments being made to the States for 1975-76 will bring the total amount they receive from the Commonwealth for that year to the same level they would have received had there been no change in the telephone concessions. On this basis, the following payments in respect of 1975-76 have now been made or are about to be made: 

<graphic href="104131197703223_12_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197703223_12_1.jpg"></graphic>

Payments for 1976-77 and later years will be based on a fixed percentage of each State's operating expenditure on fire brigade services. This percentage will be based on the ratio of total Commonwealth payments and telephone concessions for 1975-76 to total fire brigade operating expenditure that year, and will be calculated separately for each State. The amounts paid will be adjusted at the end of each financial year when actual expenditure is known. The States will be responsible for allocating appropriate amounts to their fire brigades. A total sum of $1.687m has been provided in the 1976-77 Budget to cover payments to the States under this scheme for both 1975-76 and 1976-77, although some of this will be recovered by the Commonwealth from its statutory authorities. The Government believes that this scheme is an equitable one. It has, however, agreed to review the scheme after it has been operating for a reasonable period. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has asked a number of detailed questions. The question of Aboriginal unemployment is of concern to the Government and the Government is still in the process of working out a comprehensive employment strategy for Aboriginals. My Department is in consultation with the other departments that the honourable member has named. We are still engaged in that process. As soon as the submission is ready it will be brought before the Government. In relation to the other detailed questions that the honourable member has asked, I shall ensure that he gets a written reply. 
It is true that there can be some unions- indeed, I understand that there is at least one- whose rules provide for the sort of timetable that the honourable member has indicated. 1 gave a reply yesterday on the regulations, now gazetted, relating to notification to the Industrial Registrar of forward election dates. It is true that the sort of situation outlined by the honourable gentleman could create some difficulties. As I indicated yesterday, the Industrial Registrar must be notified by 1 September of elections which will be held in the succeeding calendar year, that is, from 1 January in the next year. If the union rules provide for elections to be held, for example, between September and December, those elections will not comply with the regulations as gazetted. lt is my understanding that in circumstances like this the legislation provides enough discretion to the Registrar to enable him to advise a union that, if its rules state that the financial membership starts at a certain date and that nominations for elections must be on a certain date, the relevant elections would have to be held in the first half of the succeeding year. I believe that in that way we can get around the problem which the honourable gentleman has quite properly raised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The matter of the basis of assigning priority to unratified ILO Conventions is currently under examination at the officer level. 
(a) I am advised that no advice has been received regarding the outcome of the examination by the Queensland Treaties Commission of ILO Convention No 107. 
I am advised that on the basis of advice received no other ILO Conventions are currently under examination by the Treaties Commission. 
Representation in Lebanon  (Question No. 232) 
For the information of honourable members I present the twentieth annual report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Direct expenditure from the votes of the Department responsible for Norfolk Island matters was as indicated in the table attached. This does not include other expenditure attributable to Norfolk Island by the Department of Administrative Services and other Departments. An estimate of total expenditure in 1974-75 as given to the Royal Commission into matters relating to Norfolk Island was $2,064,300. 
Estimated direct expenditure by the Department of Administrative Services in 1 976-77 is also shown in the table. It is not possible to forecast expenditure in future years. 
3 ) A decision has not been made on this matter. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Fifty-seven. 
It is not policy to disclose the names of individuals entering into leasehold arrangments overseas with the Commonwealth. Such disclosure may constitute an invasion of privacy and prejudice the Government's negotiating ability. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have nothing to add to my earlier answer concerning this matter (House of Representatives Question No. 866,  Hansard,  page 1 27 1 of 2 1 September 1 976). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Australian Electoral Office keeps its statistics concerning the removal of names from the Commonwealth Electoral Roll under the following headings- 
Objection (principally on the grounds of non-residence in a particular sub-division) 
Transfer (i.e. electors being transferred from the roll of a sub-division to another sub-division) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Government has made no decision on the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. The report is still subject to consideration by the inter-departmental working group to which I referred in my answer to your question on notice No. 1 146 of 16 September 1976 (  Weekly Hansard,  No. 25, 1976, page 3710). 
, (a) and (b) The details of correspondence between a Premier and Prime Minister are normally regarded as confidential and for this reason I do not intend to provide details. 
Consulate Premises in Los Angeles (Question No. 210) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Rental on the former consulate premises in Los Angeles is payable at the rate of $68,000 per annum until expiry of the lease in 1 98 1 . 
Approximately half the office accommodation has been sub-let from 12 November 1976 until the expiry of the lease. Negotiations with prospective sub-tenants for sublease of the balance of the accommodation are in progress. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The  Chairman  of the Review of the Commonwealth Employment Service,  Mr J.  D. Norgard, wrote to me on 7.2.77 recommending immediate action on the following matters: the raising of staffing within the CES to at least its approved establishment level; an on-going recruitment program for the CES for the rapid replacement of staff wastage; the provision of office equipment for the CES; and the provision of additional funds to the Depanment of Employment and Industrial Relations to allow his recommendations on the above to be implemented. 
A Ministerial Press Release detailing  Mr Norgard  's above recommendations and the action taken by the Government to implement them was issued by me on 4.3.77. 
The payment of the unemployment benefit is not the responsibility of my Department but the administration of the work test is. The guidelines relating to the administration of the work test stipulate that those who leave their jobs voluntarily should not be entitled to the unemployment benefit for a period of 6 weeks. I understand that the figures quoted by the honourable member had their origin in a report from, I think, the Australian Bureau of 
Statistics. The figures indicated that of those receiving the unemployment benefit some 38 per cent had left their job voluntarily. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) statistics of persons registered as unemployed are collected monthly by (a) occupations (b) adult/junior (under 2 1 ) age groups for both males and females and (c) regions and, within regions, they are collected by Employment Office area each month and by local government areas 3 times per year. They are not collected by industry. 
Because these statistics are quickly available (within5 working days of the period to which they refer) and because they give a more detailed dissection (particularly in regard to EO areas) than the quarterly labour force series published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, they are used from time to time, eg. during the currency of the RED Scheme, for comparisons of general and sectoral variations in the direction and levels of unemployment. However, I would draw the honourable member' s attention to the November 1973 report of the Advisory Committee on CES Statistics which warned that comparisons made on this basis were considered not to be completely reliable because of the voluntary nature of registration for employment with the CES. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) There have been no fundamental changes in the matching and lapsing procedures of the Commonwealth Employment Service since1 January 1970. However, with regard to lapsing a minor change in relation to timing was made last year when the personal lodgement of Unemployment Benefit Income Statements direct to the CES was changed to a fortnightly basis. Under this system recipients of Unemployment Benefit are lapsed if they fail to lodge an Income Statement within 20 days of the lodgement of the preceding Income Statement. The longstanding earlier system, based on weekly lodgement ofIncome Statements, provided for lapsing when the claimant failed to lodge two consecutive Income Statements, i.e. after 14 days. 
Yes. Much of the routine clerical work, particularly in relation to lapsing, is carried out by Fourth Division officers. In addition there are throughout Australia a number of very experienced Fourth Division officers who are acting in Third Division positions. These officers in many instances would be undertaking some of the more responsible work associated with both the lapsing and matching procedures. It must be stressed, however, in relation to lapsing procedures, that CES instructions provide that no client should be lapsed from a CES Register without the approval of either the Office Manager, or an Assistant Office Manager. 
Subject to the qualification referred to in answer number (3), the lowest classification of Third Division officers performing this work is Clerk Class1 . 
I draw the honourable member's attention to a Press release which I issued on this subject yesterday and which requires - 
I will if the honourable member wants me to duplicate it. Yes, the Government has decided to institute such an inquiry. Yes, the Director and Council of the Trade Union Training Authority have been informed. The members of the inquiry will be  Mr Alan  Paine, Commissioner of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission;  Mr John  Menz,  Deputy  General Manager of Arnott Motterham Menz Pty Ltd of South Australia; and  Mr Harry  Hauenschild,  President  of the Trades and Labour Council of Queensland. The terms of reference of the inquiry have also been made public. I could read the terms of reference now which, as I have said, have been made public.  Mr Speaker,  could I seek your guidance? Could I seek leave to incorporate the terms of reference in  Hansard,  or would the honourable member like me to read them? 
I will read them. I am quite happy to read the terms of reference of the inquiry. They are as follows: 
Bearing in mind the Government's support for the concept of trade union training, to report on the future development of trade union training in Australia, including: 
the desirability or otherwise of: 
integration in a general system of industrial relations training, which would include training for representatives of employers in the industrial relations field; 
closer integration with the general education system; 
the role, membership and staffing of the statutory authority; 
the cost and methods of financing trade union training; and 
) other matters covered in existing legislation on which changes might be required. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill I am introducing to the House today provides for major amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The proposed legislation represents the second stage of the progressive implementation of the employment and industrial relations policy of the Government. The first stage was implemented last year when the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act providing for secret postal ballots for elections of office-bearers in organisations was introduced. Those amendments, it will be recalled, were designed to encourage greater participation by individual members in union elections and, therefore, more democratic control of those organisations. 
The Government's employment and industrial relations policy was put before the Australian people prior to the election in 1975. That policy, together with the many other facets of the Government's blueprint for a better Australia, received the most overwhelming mandate given to any Commonwealth Government in Australia's history. 
Our industrial relations policy is based on certain fundamental principles which provide the cornerstones for the legislation we are introducing today. Those principles are: Each member of our community has both rights and obligations; individual rights must be protected; equally, obligations must be met. 
These must apply no less so in industrial relations than in other facets of community life. Industrial relations affect all of us and we, as Government, accept that it is our responsibility to develop an industrial relations framework in which the rights of individuals are protected, for example the right to choose employment and to join, or not to join, industrial organisations; labour and management can communicate and settle differences in a manner which recognises the rights and responsibilities of both; and the community at large is protected from harsh and disruptive effects of industrial disputation. 
This framework cannot be achieved unless proper rules are made and observed. This is not a new concept. It is inherent in any rational society. It was recognised and accepted in the establishment of the Australian industrial relations system over 70 years ago. Since shortly after federation Australia has had a system of conciliation and arbitration which was designed to settle, by peaceful means, industrial disputes between employers and unions- a system which has provided many advantages for employers, unions and the community. 
It will be recalled that a major reason for the original conciliation and arbitration legislation was the belief that employees were at a disadvantage in the industrial relations bargaining process and needed protection. Over the years the system has assisted in providing for Australian workers a standard of living which is amongst the highest in the world. Awards made under the Act impose on employers obligations, enforceable by law, to provide their employees with prescribed standards of wages and working conditions. The system has also given to organisations of workers and employers a status and protection, guaranteed by the law, that does not exist in most other comparable industrial countries. It has provided the impetus for the growth of large and powerful trade unions. It has given these unions a monopoly over membership in the industries and callings they cover against rival organisations. It has thus placed unions in Australia in a very powerful position. 
Many trade unions have recognised that the privileges granted to them by the community, and the protection that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act has afforded their members, also have placed an onus on them to behave in a reasonable manner and, in pursuing their industrial claims, to have regard not only for the interests of their particular members, but also, for the well-being of the community in which they operate and in which their members are citizens. Regrettably, some unions have tended to disregard their responsibilities to the community and, indeed, to their own members. In some instances, the blame for this can be placed on those union officials with certain ideological beliefs. But the problem is more fundamental than that: The Government believes that it is basically a manifestation of the phenomenon we have all witnessed from time to time when an organisation which sets out initially to serve the interests of its members and the community becomes so large and powerful that it loses sight of what it should be doing; self-interest takes over, and its original purpose is lost in the pursuit of selfinterest. Industrial disputation affects the whole community. Australia's deplorable record of time lost through industrial disputes in recent years has been a significant factor contributing to our current economic problems. 
In the years since the previous Administration took office, more man-days have been lost than in any comparable period during the current century. What is more disturbing is that although the number of man-days lost on disputes which have an industrial basis has diminished since the present Government has been in office, a significant amount of working time has been lost through stoppages of a political character which have no industrial basis. In 1976, 2.1 million man-days, representing 55 per cent of all time lost in that year, were lost in stoppages over the Medibank issue. Moreover, in relation to this particular issue, trade unionists who believed that it was wrong for their unions to call stoppages over a political decision and who refused to engage in industrial action caused by their unions were victimised by those unions. Let us not ignore the fact that an individual wants to retain his freedom and dignity and free choice is essential to this objective. This is evidenced by public opinion polls and opposition by individual workers to wanton calls for strike action. The current situation cannot be permitted to continue and the Government does not intend to allow it to continue. 
Let me now outline the main features of the Bill: 
First, there are a series of amendments designed to strengthen the protection of individual employees and persons against unfair actions by employers and organisations. 
Second, the Bill establishes the Industrial Relations Bureau, an independent statutory body, as the third arm of the industrial relations machinery. 
Third, it extends the range of consequences available to the Court for breaches of the industrial law or of awards, thus providing greater flexibility for that body in these situations. 
Finally, the Bill includes a number of miscellaneous amendments which have been shown to be necessary to ensure the better working of the Act. 
Individual Rights 
The Government regards the protection of individual rights as fundamental and inalienable. It believes that every employee should have the right to join a union and it encourages employees not only to join unions but to participate fully in their affairs. On the other hand, it believes that an employee should have the right not to join a union where he or she has a genuine and conscientious objection to so joining; and that this right shall not be dependent upon the existence of a preference clause in an award. The Government does not accept that unions should have the right to seek to force self-employed persons and employers who work on the tools to become union members. The Government does not believe that members of organisations should be subjected to intimidation or should be disadvantaged because they choose to abide by their contract of employment and refuse to engage in industrial action initiated by their union. There is clearly a need to prevent a repetition of the actions taken by a few unions in relation to the Medibank stoppages last year when they sought to penalise members who refused to take part in what was a blatantly political strike and also sought to have employers discriminate against them. Similarly it believes that persons should be protected if they decide to have recourse to the processes of the legislation. Therefore, this Bill will amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to protect individual employees and persons seeking to become employees from intimidation or prejudicial action either by employers or by organisations. 
Section 5 of the Act will be amended to prevent an employer disadvantaging or threatening to disadvantage an employee who refuses to join a union on conscientious grounds; who has notified a matter to the Industrial Relations Bureau, or who has given information or other assistance to that Bureau; or who refuses to take part in an industrial action called by his organisation. The Government recognises, however, that many employers who take such action in the circumstances mentioned do so only because of pressure by the industrial organisations concerned. Clause 5 of the Bill will insert a new section 5a designed to prohibit both trade union and employer organisations from seeking to induce employers to disadvantage employees or other persons for the reasons stated. It will also be an offence for such an organisation, itself, to attempt to penalise any such employee or person. Finally, these particular sections will prevent unions from attempting to force independent contractors and employers who work on the tools to be become members. 
There is one further amendment relating to this important issue of individual rights. At present section 45 enables the Commission to order a secret ballot where a work ban exists or is threatened and where it believes that such a ballot will assist in settling the dispute. It is a discretionary provision and, although in the Act in various forms for many years, has been used very rarely. In the Government's view, the Act is deficient because it does not provide any means by which members of organisations can indicate to the Commission that they disagree with industrial action which their organisation proposes or engages in. We recognise the major problems of providing for mandatory secret ballots on strike action. In the circumstances, we propose to insert a new Section 46A which will enable members of an organisation who disagree with industrial action, or proposed industrial action called by that organisation to notify the Industrial Relations Bureau of such opposition. The Bureau, after satisfying itself that the notifiers are members of the organisation, will pass the notification to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Commission will then convey the report to the organisation and make public the opposition of the members to the industrial action. This provision could provide the Commission with some indication of the views of members in some disputes which will enable it to determine an appropriate course of action. These provisions are designed to ensure that the basic rights of individual members of organisations are enhanced. 
Industrial Relations Bureau 
The establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau is a major feature of the Government's policy. It will take over the functions- in greatly broadened form- of the Arbitration Inspectorate and will, by virtue of its status, the Government believes, ensure they are carried out more effectively. The Bureau will be the third arm of the conciliation and arbitration machinery, acting in conjunction with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Federal Court to ensure the general supervision and observance of federal industrial law. Our industrial relations policy statement pointed out that while the Arbitration Inspectorate has ensured that employers observe the terms and conditions prescribed in awards, it has really applied one section of industrial law against employers only. 
The Bill before the House gives effect to that policy. Clause 18 repeals sections 125 and 126 which presently provide for the appointment and function of inspectors. Clause 19 introduces a new Part VIA to the Act which establishes an Industrial Relations Bureau as an independent statutory authority headed by a Director with the status of a Presidential Member of the Commission. Its role will be to secure the observance of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the regulations made under that Act and of awards. It will be responsible for ensuring that employers obey the terms and conditions of awards to which they are respondents. It will also be responsible for ensuring that the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the regulations are observed, not only by employers but also by employer and employee organisations and their officials. The Bureau will not be involved in the dispute settling processes under the Act. The settlement of industrial disputes is the prime function of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The functions of the Bureau in the industrial relations area will commence at the point where awards have been made in relation to the settlement of disputes. It will have responsibilities also in relation to those provisions of the Act which do not involve the making of awards but the functioning of organisations. The Bureau will not, as some propagandists would have it, be an industrial policeman. It will be an independent body whose basic aim will be to secure the observance of the Act, regulations and awards in a reasonable and amicable manner. In effect, the Government sees the Bureau as a type of industrial relations ombudsman. In particular it will provide a focal point for non-English speaking workers to obtain assistance when they are concerned about their rights as employees and union members. The Bureau will seek to secure correction of breaches of the industrial law without recourse to the legal processes of the Court. Where the Bureau is unable to have the breach remedied, it will have the responsibility of pursuing the necessary action in the court. 
The Government believes that its amendments to a number of sections of the Act not only provide a more effective way of assisting individual union members in maintaining their rights, but also will cut out excessive legalism. For example, the only way in which challenges to rules and complaints regarding the proper observance of rules, respectively, can be resolved has frequently involved long drawn out and expensive litigation. It is proposed by clauses 23 and 24 that, in future, a person will take a complaint under sections 140 and 141 of the Act to the Bureau which will be required to investigate it. If it believes a complaint is justified, the Bureau will seek to have it rectified. If the organisation or official fails to rectify the matter it will be taken, not by the individual, but by the Bureau, to the Federal Court. However, even where the Bureau believes there is no substance in a complaint, the individual member will still retain the right to pursue the matter, personally, before the court. 
In a similar way, the Bureau will be used in the preliminary stages of enquiries into irregularities in election ballots. The Government believes that this new concept will provide more readily available means of protection for individuals- not only for members of employee organisations but also for members of employer organisations. I have stated, and reiterate, that the Government accepts that it has the responsibility to provide the means by which parties to industrial relations can settle their disagreements in an amicable fashion but with least disruption to the community at large. This objective was basic to the establishment of the original Conciliation and Arbitration Act- seen by  Mr Justice  Higgins as 'a new province for law and order'. The Government believes that the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau will restore and extend the authority of this long established machinery. 
Consequences 
The strengthening of the authority of the industrial relations machinery requires the observance of rules- the rules contained in the Act itself, in the regulations and in awards. The Government believes that these rules must be observed and that failure to observe such rules must carry consequences. There have been, ever since the inception of the Act, consequences for breaches of the rules in some form or another. In recent years the consequences embodied in the Act have fallen into disuse. The Government believes that it is impossible to maintain the authority of the Act unless there are consequences which are appropriate to the particular breaches of the rules. In essence, those contained in the Act at present are monetary penalties and deregistration. These are not necessarily appropriate in all cases. For example, a monetary penalty of a fixed amount can be inappropriate when some continuing action violates an individual right. On the other hand, the penalty of deregistration is too drastic for many of the offences that may occur. 
The Government, therefore, proposes that there should be a wider range of options for the court when breaches which cannot be remedied by the Industrial Relations Bureau come before it. Matters may come before the court in relation to breaches of the Act or Regulations- section 109- for breaches of awards- section 119- on applications for deregistration of organisations under section 143 and for offences under a number of sections of the Act. In clause 15, it is proposed that, in dealing with such cases in the future, the court be enabled to fix a monetary penalty, to deregister an organisation or to suspend all or any of the capacities, rights and privileges of an organisation or its members. Furthermore, it will, in considering any of these matters, be empowered to order a secret ballot of the members of the organisations where it considers that such a ballot will assist in relation to its decision in these matters. The matters I have outlined represent the major amendments proposed in this Bill. 
Miscellaneous Amendments 
There are, in addition, a number of miscellaneous amendments. In clause 6 it is proposed that the Act will be amended to ensure that the  President  and  Deputy  Presidents of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have the same salaries as the Chief Judge and Judges, respectively, of the new Federal Court. A further amendment- clause 20- is designed to restrict the right of organisations, through their State branches, to enrol as members only those nonemployees who are eligible, under legislation of the relevant State, to join a union. This amendment is related to amendments introduced by the previous administration as a result of the  Moore  v.  Doyle  case and which went too far. In clause 7 it is proposed that the Commission be empowered to include dispute settling procedures in an award, even though the parties cannot agree on their inclusion, where it believes that to do so would encourage the achievement of industrial peace. 
Finally, 2 amendments are proposed to section 170 of the Act which deals with officially conducted ballots. They are that a branch be entitled, like the organisation itself, to apply to have the elections of the branch's Federal Conference delegates office officially conducted, and that the Chief Electoral Officer be empowered to allocate other officers of the Australian Electoral Office to conduct officially conducted elections. In conclusion, I would again reiterate that the Government is pledged to protect individual rights, and the rights of the community, in industrial relations matters, and ensure the observance of the obligations labour and management have to each other and the community at large. 
Let me re-state briefly the main thrusts of this Bill. The Government proposes the strengthening of provisions relating to the protection of the rights of individuals against unfair actions by employers and organisations; the establishment of an Industrial Relations Bureau as a focal point for securing the observance of the industrial laws; and the extension of the range of consequences available to the court in dealing with breaches of industrial law. It believes that with the co-operation of the community, the measures proposed will prove successful. 
However, the Government does not purport to have found the perfect answer. For this reason, and because of the fundamental importance of the legislation, it believes that there is a need for time to be given not only for the members of Parliament to give the proposed legislation their objective consideration, but also for the principal parties to industrial relations- the peak councils of the employer organisations and trade unions, individual trade unions and individual employers and, more importantly, the community at large- to examine the contents of the Bill and to be able to make their views known to the Government. Accordingly, it is the intention of the Government that, in order to afford proper time for this consideration, this Bill will now lie on the table of the House until at least the middle of May, when it can be fully debated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-Strike action by oil industry drivers and aircraft refuellers in support of a log of claims served on the employers in February this year has resulted in a very serious depletion of stocks, particularly in Victoria, to the extent that supplies have already run out in some areas of Melbourne and further areas of Victoria are likely to be without petrol unless the dispute is resolved within the next few days. Thousands of air travellers have been stranded in Tasmania, New South Wales and Victoria, although I understand that services to Tasmania are likely to be resumed today following a decision by the union members there to return to work. Conferences have been held in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission between the oil companies and the union concerned over the log of claims which, in addition to improvement in conditions of employment, is seeking a catch-up for alleged loss of earnings as a result of recent national wage case decisions -an approach which the House will remember the Commission has already rejected. 
I understand that meetings of refuellers and tanker drivers are to take place in the near future. Until now those employees have refused to accept the offers which have been put to them by the companies. All reasonable people will join with the Government in condemning this highly irresponsible industrial action by a few key employees in this industry which has brought great hardship and inconvenience to the community at a time when it can have the effect only of delaying economic recovery and when the great need is for the support of everyone in this community to restore the economic health of the country. The Government urges the employees concerned to heed the recommendations of the Commission and cease forthwith this irresponsible industrial action. 
Much of what I said a moment ago in relation to the strike by the refuellers and tanker drivers applies to the question asked by the honourable member. It is my understanding that as a result of a refusal to work under the terms and conditions of the award negotiated with the 3 principal suppliers of concrete, approximately 60 union members are holding up the delivery of concrete to building projects throughout the Melbourne metropolitan area. As a result of that some hundreds of builders labourers have been stood down. If the strike is continued by those few irresponsible people it inevitably will result in thousands of workers being stood down. It is another good example of the selfish, irresponsible action of a few key people, as the honourable member has said, holding an industry to ransom. 
Yes, it is my understanding that the rolling strike to which the honourable gentleman refers has virtually brought the meat processing industry in Victoria to a halt. The 19-point log of claims that the honourable member referred to contains demands which quite obviously are way beyond the wage indexation guidelines. Over the past few weeks the union concerned has shown a complete disregard for the interests not only of many of its members but also of members of other unions who have had to be stood down as a result of its action. I think the important point needs to be made that if demands such as those being made by this union were granted the inevitable result would be thousands fewer jobs in Australia. In that sense, the union concerned not only is uncaring of the effect of its action on the associated people who have been stood down but also is completely uncaring of those people who do not have jobs at present and thousands of others whose jobs would be put at risk if increases such as those being claimed were granted. 
Pursuant to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 I table a copy of a determination and report of the Academic Salaries Tribunal in relation to annual leave (bonus) payments due to academic staff in December 1977 which was tabled in the Senate on 31 March 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A decision not to proceed with the installation of a computer network linking all offices of the CES was taken by the previous Government in July 1 975 pending a review of cost benefit aspects in the light of capital expenditure and developmental costs involved. However, an examination of the equipment and system requirements, including data processing and electronic techniques, is one of the matters which  Mr J.  D. Norgard has been asked to consider in the Review of the CES which he is conducting. 
Assuming the computer network provides on line facilities and there is speedy input of information about applicants seeking employment and vacancies notified by employers, it should help to decrease the time which vacancies remain unfilled and applicants remain unemployed. A network should also provide more timely and disaggregated information on the activities of the CES. 
This question is being considered by  Mr Norgard  in the context of the abovementioned Review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Late in September my Department received a discussion paper from the Australian Statistician, outlining a revised method for calculating new seasonal factors for CES registered unemployed excluding school-leavers. The Statistician has advised that the factors offer a better seasonal adjustment than was provided previously. Figures are being computed on this basis to assess their possible reliability for seasonal adjustment purposes. The Statistician has also indicated that he is not prepared to provide at this stage a revised method for determining seasonal adjustment of the registered unemployed school-leaver series. 
As I am sure the honourable member will agree it would be quite misleading to publish figures the reliability of which has not been established. That aside, I intend to continue my practice of referring only to the actual figures of registered umemployed in my monthly press release on CES figures. This, I believe, avoids uncertainty and confusion. It has the unanimous support of all State Labour Ministers, and was re-affirmed at our meeting on 12 November 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) From its inception on1 October 1976 to 28 February 1 977, a total of 1 54 persons had been relocated in employment under the Relocation Assistance Scheme. 
A total of $109,437 in relocation allowances has been paid to these persons. 
and (4) The Department is following up all persons relocated to discover whether or not they are still working in the job to which they were relocated, 3 months after moving. This is part of an overall review of the Scheme to evaluate its effectiveness. When the review is complete I expect to make an announcement about the progress and effectiveness of the Scheme. 
Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health: Recommendation 24  (Question No. 141) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Persons do not register Tor Unemployment Benefit at Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) Offices. They register as applicants seeking employment, and, if they state that they are presently unemployed, they may also claim Unemployment Benefit. Whether or not this claim is granted depends on a decision of the Department of Social Security. 
There is, therefore, no information available as to the number of persons registered for Unemployment Benefit at CES Offices. However, the number of persons registered as unemployed at the end of November 1975, December 1976 and January 1977 at the Queensland Employment Offices of Wynnum and Mt Gravatt was: 
Data relating to the numbers of Unemployment Benefit recipients are the responsibility of the Department of Social Security and, if the honourable member requires any information concerning these, he should direct this question to the Minister for Social Security. 
International Airlines: Applications for Additional Landing Rights in Australia  (Question No. 289) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the 1976 calendar year 37 breaches of awards by 6 separate Western Australian local government authorities were detected by the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate. 
Individual breaches of award provisions by each of the authorities comprised: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
My Department has advised me that Tiki Fashion Pty Ltd advertised for experienced machinists in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 19.2.77, offering employment on a piece work basis. It is not aware of advertisements by this company in Sydney's ethnic press. 
My Department is not aware of the response to the employment opportunities referred to. 
I understand from my Department that there is a shortage of experienced clothing machinists in the Sydney area, and that employers generally are experiencing difficulties in obtaining suitable labour of this kind. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The estimated value of damage recorded by the Commonwealth Fire Board in 1968-69 Annual Report for the fire at HMAS  Albatross,  Nowra, New South Wales, on 24 December 1 967 is $ 1 , 602, 100. 
At this stage no estimated value of damage has been received from Navy concerning the fire at HMAS  Albatross  on 4 December 1 976. 
The Department of Defence has advised the Commonwealth Fire Board that a formal report will be submitted following the findings of the Naval Board of Inquiry. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) See part (2) of the response of the Minister for Construction to parliamentary Question No. 174 on page 1653 of  Hansard  of 27 April 1976. 
(a) by the Government in February 1976; (b) no formal announcement was made. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question.  (l)and(2) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Only one change has been made to the statistical base of Commonwealth Employment Service figures for covering registrants for employment since 1 January 1970. 
The change occurred in July 1973 and consisted of a revision to the definition of the school leaver component of registered unemployed. 
School leavers are now defined as comprising all persons under the age of 2 1 who, at the time of registering with the CES, had ceased full-time primary or secondary education within the previous 6 months. 
The previous definition differed in that it comprised: 
persons still at school who notified the CES that they would leave school before the end of the school year if a full-time job were available: 
b ) persons who had ceased full-time primary or secondary education within the previous 3 months. 
Composition of the Australian Work Force  (Question No. 91) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no official statistics which classify employees by 'white-collar' or 'blue-collar' status. The most recent information available in sufficient occupational detail to categorise employees in this way was collected in the 1971 Population Census. Using this data, my Department has estimated that 2 101 200 and 2 000 200 employees worked in blue-collar and white-collar occupations respectively (this breakup excludes 'members of armed services', 'farmers, fishermen, hunters, timber-getters, etc' and 'occupation inadequately described or not stated'). This is a ratio of 1.05:1. 
Latest information published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics Shows that there were 4 722 700 civilian employees (excluding agriculture and private domestic service) in Australia at December 1976. Applying the ratio obtained from the 1971 Population Census data to this figure gives an estimate of 2 419 500 blue-collar workers and 2 303 200 white-collar workers at end 1976. 
It should be realised, however, that this estimate is inaccurate to the extent that the proportions of blue-collar and white-collar workers have changed between June 1971 and December 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  'Man days lost' is a specific technical term normally restricted to the measurement of the impact of industrial disputes. Its purpose is to provide a quantifiable measure of the actual loss of production caused by industrial disputes. As such, 'man days lost' is a reasonably precise quantifiable term. 
In the case of unemployment and, for that matter, most other potential sources of production loss, it would be necessary to first establish some agreed normal level from which the current situation deviates. It is clear that in the case of unemployment any attempt to quantify 'man days lost' would be so subject to argument as to lose any analytical value. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Precise figures for the number of school leavers registering as unemployed from the end of the 1976 school year to the beginning of the 1977 school year are not available as weekly statistics are not collected. However, figures for the relevant months in each State during this period are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (3) and (4) As at 5 April 1977 the following organisations had received grants under the Community Youth Support Scheme in the Federal electoral divisions indicated. - The amount and duration of each grant is also shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report of the Working Party on the Transition from Secondary Education to Employment was considered by the Conference of Ministers of Labour at its meeting on 25 February 1977. 
At this meeting, Ministers for Labour concurred with a proposal of the Australian Education Council to establish a Commonwealth/State Working Party of education and labour officers to develop proposals for early consideration and, subsequently, to act as a steering group for further action in the area of vocational preparation programs. Action is now in hand to convene this Working Party. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 5 April 1977, 238 applications had been received for funding under the Community Youth Support Scheme of which 103 have been approved. The remainder are being examined to assess whether they meet the Scheme's requirements. Where these requirements are not met applications are referred back to the sponsoring organisation for modification or further information. 
All CYSS projects seek to improve the ability of unemployed young people to apply for jobs and find employment and to help to maintain them with a sense of direction and purpose, including an orientation to work. 
In regard to the cost and duration of each project approved, I refer the honourable member to my Answer to Question No. 178. Similar information is not available in respect of projects not yet determined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Provision of the precise information sought by the honourable member would require extensive research of a large number of individual project files. The number of unemployed persons each sponsor expected to engage, and the proportion of the total grant expected to be spent on wages cost of employing persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service is shown for each project on computer print-outs held in my Department's Central Office. One of these print-outs groups projects by Federal Electoral Divisions. I would be happy to make arrangements for the honourable member to have access to this print-out. 
Similar data, but grouped by office areas of the CES, with the relevant Electoral Division indicated, is also available on a microfiche held in the Parliamentary Library. 
I am able to inform the honourable member that a total amount of about $4,843,000 was paid under the Regional Employment Development Scheme to sponsors of projects located in his Electorate. At least SO per cent of this amount would have been in respect of the wages and on-costs of employing persons registered as unemployed with CES. Using a standard cost for employing a person on council work in New South Wales and an average figure for the duration of projects, it is estimated that at least 1280 positions for unemployed persons would have been created under REDS in the honourable member's Electorate. 
Commonwealth Payments to University and Non-university Consultants (Question No. 517) 
-The Government is awaiting the response of the State Premiers. Three have indicated their support for the Federal Government and one Labor Premier has rejected the proposal. But whatever the results of this approach, it is nothing short of a national tragedy that Australian union leaders yesterday let down their members by ignoring the overwhelming weight of public opinion in support of the wageprice pause. The Government had hoped that the public enthusiasm for the heads of government agreement for a voluntary wage-price pause would have changed the attitude of the official union leadership from that expressed in 1973. Regrettably that has not been so and if the Federal Government is not successful in its efforts to preserve the agreement the losers will be the people of Australia, including the people whom the union leaders claim to represent. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House that, acting on the advice of the Executive Council, the Governor-General has directed that redistributions shall be effected in all States. The proclamations directing the redistributions were gazetted on 12 April 1977. The appointment of the following persons as Distribution Commissioners was notified in the Australian Government  Gazette  today: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The honourable member may recall that, on 6.5. 1 976 and 18.1 1.1976, 1 made 2 detailed statements to the Parliament on the Government's attitude to future arrangements in the stevedoring industry  (Hansard  pages 2019 to 2025 and 2876 to 2870). Essentiually, the Government's attitude, as represented by those statements, is that, provided the industry can develop, to the Government's satisfaction, a suitable total framework for the industry that could replace the existing framework which is based on legislation providing for Government regulation of the industry through a statutory body- the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority (ASIA)- the Government would see no need to continue the ASIA in existence. Work on developing a proposed alternative framework for the Government' s consideration has been the responsibility of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference chaired by  Sir Richard  Kirby and attended by representatives of employers (the National Industrial Council, the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and the Australian National Line), the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia and my Department. The Conference has also held discussions with a wide range of other organisations associated with the industry. (2)I have noted the results of the Prices Justification Tribunal's inquiries into certain charges of James Patrick and Company Pty Ltd, Patrick Operations Pty Ltd and Seatainer Terminals Limited and I would draw to the honourable member's attention what I had to say to the Parliament in May and November last year about the valuable role that I saw being played by the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Restrictive Trade Practices Tribunal in relations to the stevedoring industry. 
The Government has considered a proposition such as the honourable member refers to in this part of his question and on this I would also refer him to my abovementioned May and November 1976 statements to the Parliament. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Part (4) of my reply to question No. 866 was given only after officers of my Department had assured me that the information was not available in the Department. 

 Mr Renzo di Piramo and Weisscredit  (Question No. 555) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I am not prepared to express an opinion on this matter. 
I am not aware of the precise figures quoted by the honourable gentleman although, of course, I am aware that the number of job vacancies falls far short of the number of those seeking employment. I emphasise to the honourable gentleman that the Government, with regard to youth unemployment- a section of our community which is bearing a very substantial part of the unemployment burden- has introduced a range of measures designed to help them. In particular, in association with State Labour Ministers we have introduced the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full Time Training scheme- CRAFT. I am pleased to be able to report to the House that in 4 States indications are that apprentice intake is up by between 15 per cent and 25 per cent since the announcement of that scheme. 
Furthermore, while the CRAFT scheme will ensure an adequate supply of skilled tradesmen in the future obviously it will take some time for the products of that scheme to enter the work force. For the immediate short term we have introduced the special youth employment training scheme. From memory I think some 7000 young people are now engaged in in-plant, on the job training learning the skills for which there is a labour market demand. Finally, in addition to those 2 schemes we have introduced, as the honourable gentleman stated, the community youth support scheme which is designed to ensure that young people who have not been able to gain entry into the 2 areas of employment that I have mentioned, or indeed, into other areas of employment, are enabled to maintain a sense of purpose in life. I am most grateful to the honourable members on both sides of the House who have lent their support to the scheme. Some 100 projects under these schemes are now in operation throughout the country. 
-As the House no doubt knows already, the crippling strike of the tanker drivers in Victoria has now finished and I understand that the men will return to work at 7 o'clock tomorrow morning. That is a victory for common sense. I understand that the unions main claims relating to $5.70 a week increase in wages and payment by the employers of the Medibank levy were rejected. I am not aware at this stage of what was put in detail to the men this morning. What is clear is that one of the most irresponsible and futile strikes of recent times has ended, and it is a good example of the weight of public opinion and resolute action by both State and Federal governments safeguarding the interests of the community. That has always been an essential part of our industrial policies and remains one of our objectives. Legislation now before the House is a further step in protecting the public against totally irresponsible actions of this kind. 
I am aware that the union movement in West Germany is organised on rather different lines from the trade union movement here. For a start it has a highly competent and responsible union leadership. It is also based on a system of industry unions which suits that country very well. The honourable member referred to legislation in West Germany requiring a 75 per cent vote before members take industrial action. Successive Australian governments have looked at the possibility of making secret ballots mandatory before strike action is taken. I believe that it would not be possible to carry out such a mandatory provision on all occasions in a country like Australia because some of the largest unions have a large number of itinerant workers. In those circumstances the mandatory provisions would fall into disuse. 
I remind the House that section 45 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act enables the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to ensure that a secret ballot is called if it thinks that the calling of a secret ballot will help in the resolution of a dispute. This provision has not been used greatly in recent years, although it has been used successfully on some occasions. As the honourable member will be aware, the industrial legislation  which is now before the House proposes new provisions whereby those members of a union who indicate that they do not support industrial action which has been called by their union will have an opportunity to see that their views are made known to the union leadership and to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Committee of Ministers is a Sub-committee of Cabinet. It is not normal practice to make public information on the operations of the Cabinet. 
See ( 1 ) above. The Prime Minister announced the formation of the committee on 1 October 1976, and its composition. The current composition is the Minister for Administrative Services (Chairman), the Treasurer and the Ministers for Industry and Commerce, Employment and Industrial Relations, Transport, Business and Consumer Affairs and Productivity. The Minister for Defence and the Minister for other purchasing Departments may be co-opted as appropriate. 
No. 
1 1 cases have been considered by the committee. A further S are currently awaiting consideration. 
Of the 11 cases considered by the committee 8 were decided in favour of the Australian supplier. Details of these are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The NEAT Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP) began operation on 1 October 1976. As at end March of this year- just 6 months after its introductionthere were some 7400 trainees in respect of whom employers were receiving the special subsidy which the Government has made available to help in overcoming the employment problems of young people who have experienced a long duration of unemployment. 
I regret that in the circumstances it is not practicable to provide the information sought on the thousands of employers who are providing training. Considerable staff resources which are needed for other purposes would be required to complete the necessary listings. In addition in view of the fundamental policy of the Commonwealth Employment Service that information as to names and addresses of its clients are treated as confidential, the permission of employers for the release of their names and addresses would have to be obtained. 
However, the following table provides the numbers of trainees under SYETP in each of the States, and the Northern Territory at end of March of this year and may be of assistance to the honourable member. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries is the subject of examination by an interdepartmental working group. Whenthe working group's final report is submitted to me. which I expect to be fairly soon, consideration will be given to the future action that should be taken with regard to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. 
Inquiry into Unemployment Benefits (Question No. 620) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been few allegations which have come to my notice that employers are abusing the subsidies available for training unemployed persons under the NEAT Special Youth Employment Training Program -SYETP. However, all such allegations have been thoroughly investigated by my Department. In no case has any foundation been established for the claims which have been made. 
It is of course open to the Government to deny further participation in SYETP to employers who abuse the assistance which it provides. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An application from the Yarrowlumla Shire Council for funding under the Community Youth Support Scheme was lodged with my Department in January 1 977. As the application was outside the guidelines of the Scheme, it was discussed by officers of my Department with the member for Eden-Monaro and Council representatives. Following these discussions the Council was invited to resubmit a modified proposal. 
My Department was subsequently advised that the Council did not wish to continue with the application and asked that it be withdrawn. 
As at 5 April 1977 103 projects had been approved under the scheme. 
1 refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 178, which was published in the  Hansard  of 20 April 1977 (pages 1077-1079). 
It is my understanding that the General Motors-Holden's proposal to advance a week's annual leave and offer it to its employees has not been received favourably by union members, despite some initial reaction of a more favourable kind by at least some of the union officials. I am informed that the management of the company will be meeting with the union leaders at approximately 2.30 p.m., today and I expect that some clarification will come from that meeting as to whether the men are prepared to accept a week's annual leave proposal or whether the company has any alternative proposals to put to them. 
I am informed that during the last 6 months the conservator of fine arts and the curator of art at the Australian War Memorial have resigned. Action is in hand to appoint a scientist to head the Australian War Memorial conservation laboratory. This is a new position. Action is also being taken to review salary levels of conservation staff employed throughout the Commonwealth services. There are few trained conservators in Australia to meet the demands of our museums and art galleries. It is also a fact that no academic institution until the present time has a course of training in these skills. However, I understand that the Canberra College of Advanced Education hopes to start a course of this kind next year. In the meantime, the only course of action available to us is to attract qualified and experienced staff from abroad to undertake this work. We are fully aware of the valuable collections in the Australian War Memorial and we are taking positive steps to ensure that they are properly looked after. 
The Minister for Administative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The personal staff establishments for Ministers, and the classification and salary range of each position, are set out below. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Police observed the item referring to  Vinnie Teresa' and  Mr McCrudden  in the Overflow Column in the  National Times  at publication time- 27 December 1976-1 January 1977. 
The honourable member will be aware that prior to the announcement by the Government of its proposals regarding this legislation the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions issued a statement saying that whilst the policy of the trade union movement was against penalties in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, nevertheless it recognised that the existing Act did contain, in his words, 'pains and penalties'. He said that, provided there was no extension of these pains and penalties, and the existing processes- I think that was the word he used- were maintained, the union movement would not raise objections to the establishment of an IRB to take over the functions of the Arbitration Inspectorate. The functions that will be taken over by the Industrial Relations Bureau when it is formed will be exactly those that are exercised by the Arbitration Inspectorate at the present time, and the processes that will be followed by the Industrial Relations Bureau will be exactly those that are laid down for the Arbitration Inspectorate, including the criteria laid down and issued last year- I think, in about August. I sent a copy of those criteria to the honourable member for Gellibrand as the Opposition's shadow Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. So the short answer to the honourable member's question is yes, exactly the same processes and procedures will apply as now apply. 
Pursuant to section 125 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904 I present the report of the Australian Arbitration Inspectorate for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information available to my Department indicates chat as at 30 March 1977 community committees have been established in the following federal divisions: 
Ballaarat, Barton, Bass, Batman, Bendigo, Bennelong. Brisbane, Burke, Canberra, Capricornia, Casey, Chifley. Cook, Corio, Darling, Darling Downs, Dawson, Denison and Franklin, Diamond Valley, Eden-Monaro, Flinders. Fremantle, Gellibrand, Grey, Griffith, Henty, Herbert. Holt, Hotham, Hughes, Isaacs, Kennedy, Kingston. Leichhardt, Macarthur, Mackellar, Macquarie, Mallee. Maranoa, Maribyrnong, Mitchell, Murray, Petrie. Port Adelaide, Robertson, Scullin, Werriwa, Wide Bay and Wills. 
It should be noted that community committees while desirable are not essential to the implementations of the Community Youth Support Scheme. There is therefore no requirement for my Department to be informed about the formation of committees. Funds have been made available to a number of other local committees and organisations in federal divisions irrespective of whether a community committee has been established by a member of the House or his nominee. In many of these cases the federal member has been associated with the local organisations or committee in sponsoring a program. 
and (4) As at 31 March 1977, the following community committees have themselves successfully sponsored applications for funds under the Scheme. The projects are named in each case, and the activities in the voluntary community service component of each project are listed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) No. 
No; only unemployed registrants seeking full-time work are counted in arriving at the totals of unemployed persons that are published monthly. 
No. However the Department of Social Security requires persons claiming unemployment benefits to have registered for employment with the CES. 
(a) A labour force survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) in May 1976 showed that of an estimated 243 900 persons then looking for work, 72 900 (30 per cent) were not registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES). 
However a number of important facts need to be borne in mind when comparing ABS and CES data. There are differences in definition, coverage, timing and method of collection of the two series. For example the CES data refers only to persons seeking full-time work while the ABS data includes persons looking for pan-time work. The May 1976 labour force survey showed that 44 1 00 ( 1 8. 1 per cent of the total) were in this category. Presumably many of these would not be registered with the CES. 
It should also be pointed out that in a survey, conducted by the ABS, in March 1977, of persons registered with the CES as unemployed seeking full-time work, only 70.2 per cent of respondents were classified as unemployed according to the ABS definition. (4)(b) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics began carrying out quarterly household population surveys in the 6 State capital cities in November 1 960. The surveys were extended to other areas in February 1964. The February 1977 survey is the 53rd of these Australia-wide surveys. 
The number of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for full-time employment, and the number of unemployed persons estimated by the ABS quarterly household population surveys are set out in the Table below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) publishes monthly estimates of the number of civilian employees excluding those engaged in agriculture and private domestic service. The latest estimates at the end of each quarter from 1970 are given in the table below. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) No; annual leave loading was introduced for public servants on the basis that it reflected community standards. Arguments used in support of annual leave loading, such as the need to maintain an employee's income during periods of leave or the need to ensure that an employee has sufficient money to enjoy a holiday, have not necessarily been accepted by the employing authorities. 
No; in fact, some public servants above Class 8 do receive overtime payments. 
and (4) All public servants received the same annual leave loading in 1974 and 1975, which was equivalent to average weekly earnings. The Arbitrator's decision of 23 November 1976 (Determination No. 775), which is the Determination referred to in the Question, provided for a  17'/2  per cent of salary loading, subject to a maximum of average weekly earnings. 
The Government's view is that the form of leave loading which has now been endorsed by the Arbitral authorities, after hearing argument from the parties, reflects community standards and is appropriate for Commonwealth employees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Employment Service makes every effort to meet the needs of non-English speaking applicants, particularly in areas where heavy concentrations of migrants are found. This is achieved through appointing appropriate bilingual officers to offices in those localities. The CES also has at its disposal bilingual and multilingual officers who staff its offices at migrant hostels. 
In addition to its own resources, the CES in each urea liaises with such bodies as the Department of Social Security's Interpreter Service for migrants, bank migrant services, the Good Neighbour Council and civic minded members of ethnic communities. 
While the CES does not maintain statistical records of applicants on an ethnic basis, the Employment Office areas in which a substantial migrant population are well known to my Department. The following Offices of the CES, set out in State order, are regarded by my Department as being those whose areas include substantial numbers of migrants. 
New South Wales- Bankstown, Campsie, Fairfield. Granville, Leichhardt, Liverpool, Marrickville, Surry Hills. Warilla, Wollongong. 
Victoria- Brunswick, Coburg, Footscray, Newport. Oakleigh, Prahran, Richmond, St Albans, Sunshine. 
Queensland- Annerley, Atherton, Ayr, Fortitude Valley. Inala Ingham, Innisfail, West End, Woolloongabba. 
South Australia- Adelaide, Enfield, Norwood. Port Adelaide. 
Western Australia- Cannington, Fremantle. Midland. Mt Hawthorn, Perth, Victoria Park. 
No extra staff are provided in CES offices which deal with large migrant groups. Surveys conducted by my Department suggest that, given the present arrangements in respect of migrant-oriented offices, the time involved in interviewing migrants is not significantly greater than for other applicants. 
A significant proportion of fully trained staff in large migrant content offices of the CES are from migrant backgrounds or, in some instances, migrants themselves. As a result, a broad spectrum of languages is spoken by these officers and utilised in the interviewing process. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The preparation of the table in  Hansard, 23  February 1977, page 405 involved a comprehensive examination of my Department's records and the information extracted was referred to the States for confirmation that it was accurate and current. The table, unlike the previous table which appeared in  Hansard,  31 May 1972, page 3379, does not show Western Australia as having agreed to the ratification of ILO Conventions Nos 14, 17, 65, 92, 113 and 125. 1 am advised that the reasons for this are as follows: 
Nos 65, 92 and 125-advice to hand in 1972 regarding Western Australia's attitude to the ratification of these Conventions was taken as specific agreement to ratification when this was not the case. 
Nos 14 and 17- further examination has raised doubts about the compliance of Western Australian law and practice with the requirements of these Conventions and those doubts have precluded continued agreement to ratification. 
No 1 13- the entry in the 1972 table of 3 States including Western Australia as having agreed to ratification of this Convention was due to clerical error. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates and in the majority of cases pans of several employment office areas would be contained in any one electorate. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the incidence of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
With this caveat in mind I am prepared to provide statistics of the numbers, age and sex of persons registered as unemployed in offices of the CES contained in the respective electorates as requested by the honourable member but. as statistics of occupational categories for which unemployed persons are registered are not normally published by CES Office areas I do not consider that the considerable clerical effort involved in their extraction, would be justified for part (3) of the honourable member's question. In making this decision I am taking into account the fact that the honourable member has given notice of an identical question in relation to at least three other pairs of months and that the honourable member for Hughes has asked the same question, in relation to three electorates for at least 3 pairs of months. 
The following are the answers, in terms of CES Office areas to the pans ( 1 ) and (2 ) of the honourable member's question: 
(a) The federal electoral division of Chifley us presently constituted, comprises approximately 40 per cent of the Employment Office area of Mt Druitt, approximately 40 per cent of the Employment Office area of Blacktown and approximately 10 per cent of the Employment Office area of Penrith. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tables provide statistics on employed and unemployed persons in the construction industry during each month since January 1976 for which data are available. 
The data presented to cover 'unemployed in the construction industry' are the number of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for employment in occupations related to the construction industry. The occupational categories covered in this instance are skilled building and construction workers, builders labourers and other building and construction workers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Any allegation of an employer abusing the system of subsidised training on-the-job under the National Employment and Training System is thoroughly investigated. 
No specific allegations have been drawn to my attention that some employers have not provided NEAT trainees with the training agreed upon. 
When subsidised training on-the-job is approved a training plan is drawn up to indicate what skills the employee is expected to have acquired at the end of the training period. The procedures lay down that when my Department finds a departure from the training plan has taken place appropriate action is to be taken. If the employee were no longer being trained, and there is no possibility of changing that situation, subsidy payments would be stopped immediately. 
This Government does not condone any person or organisation which exploits government assistance. If an employer were found to be abusing the NEAT System, subsidy would cease immediately. 
) There are no known cases. 
If any instances of abuse are drawn to my attention they will be investigated and appropriate action taken. 
Instructions to CES specify that each vacancy must be looked at on its merits and applicants are only to be placed in training with an employer who is assessed as being capable of providing training. Instructions to the CES set limits on the number of trainees for which an employer may receive NEAT subsidy at any time. These limits are based on the total number of employees in the establishment at the time placement is being considered. 
No. 
No. 

 Mr L. J. Gruzman, Q.C. : Permission to Fly Aircraft out of Australia (Question No. 533)  Mr James  asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 March 1 977: 
On what dates and for what destinations has  Mr L.  J. Gruzman, Q.C, received permits to fly aircraft out of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Up to the end of February 1977 there were 608 apprentices enrolled in farming apprenticeships. This number includes 185 probationers and newly indentured apprentices who have been taken on since 1 July 1976. These were all enrolled in Victoria, the only State to have formal apprenticeships for farming occupations. 
Farm apprentices, like all other apprentices, who have to live away from their homes to obtain or remain in an apprenticeship will qualify for the enhanced livingawayfromhome allowances available under CRAFT with effect from 15 January 1977. Victoria is not providing any new preapprenticeship training opportunities in 1 977 preferring to concentrate on accelerated training arrangements within the apprenticeship system. Thus no farm apprentices will benefit from pre-apprenticeship training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in New South Wales as a result of the annual reviews for the years 1972 to 1976 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available to all regions as required to provide for work load increases and seasonal work load peaks occurring in individual offices between annual reviews, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
Figures relate to the staffing levels at 1 October each year. 
I have been given preliminary advice that Commonwealth Police believe that they have uncovered a major fraud involving the illegal payment of unemployment benefit to members of the Turkish community in Sydney. I understand that the fraud involves the establishment of false identities and subsequent fraudulent claims through the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of those false identities. The possible occurrence of frauds of this kind was one of the reasons why the Government established the Myers inquiry to look into all aspects of policy and administration concerning unemployment benefit but, notwithstanding the results of that inquiry, my Department is already co-operating with the Department of Social Security to tighten the procedures in this area in order to detect and reduce the possibility of abuses of the kind mentioned by the honourable member. 
I do not have the information with me but I shall get it and supply it to the honourable member. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes the establishment of a continuing tripartite consultative body in the manpower and industrial relations fields to be known as the National Labour Consultative Council. 
This is not the first occasion on which there has been a tripartite body for consultations on matters relating to the employment and industrial relations portfolio. From 1954 to 1958, there was a body known as the Ministry of Labour Advisory Council, and in the late 1960s the National Labour Advisory Council was established. Both of these bodies had on them representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the national employers. They met regularly for consultation on a wide range of matters; for example, employment, industrial relations and related industrial and economic matters. Neither of the bodies was established by statute. The National Labour Advisory Council continued to meet until the advent of the Labor Government in 1972. Although it was never formally wound-up it has not met since that time. 
The employment and industrial relations policy of the Government specifically provides for the re-establishment of a national tripartite consultative body similar to the National Labour Advisory Council but with a more effective charter. It also provides for the new consultative body to be established on a statutory basis and not merely to be available for use if required by the Minister. It would have an obligation to meet regularly. In January 1976, shortly after the Government came to office, I conferred with representatives of the national employers and the peak union councils with a view to seeking their agreement to the implementation of this policy objective. At those discussions substantial consensus was achieved in relation to the establishment and charter of a national tripartite body. Subsequently, however, the ACTU indicated that it was not prepared to participate in the body. 
Obviously, the effectiveness of any tripartite machinery depends upon the willingness of all parties to participate in it. I am therefore pleased to be able to say now that, following discussions on 1 1 May between me and representatives of the peak union councils on the Government's proposed industrial relations legislation, the ACTU has indicated that it would be prepared to join a re-constituted tripartite consultative council. Representatives of the national employers associations have also reiterated their previous agreement to join such a council. The Bill proposes that the new body should be known as the National Labour Consultative Council. Its purpose will be to provide a regular and formal means by which representatives of the Government and employer and employee organisations may consult together on manpower matters and industrial relations matters of national concern. 
Its charter is stated in general terms and will enable discussion of, among other matters, employment, training, industrial legislation and international labour issues. I believe that the creation of the Council as a statutory body will not only enhance its status in the community but will also ensure its continuance as an essential channel for communications in the labour field. Let me briefly outline the other main provisions of the Bill. 
Composition of the Council 
The Bill proposes that the Council comprise 1 6 members: The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, who shall be the Chairman; the Secretary of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations; 1 member chosen by the Minister to represent public authorities as employers; 6 members nominated by the National Employers' Policy Committee; 6 members nominated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions; and 1 member nominated by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. 
Meetings of the Council 
The Bill provides that meetings of the Council be held at least once a quarter. In addition the Minister may convene a meeting at any other time and is obliged to do so whenever requested by a majority of the members of the Council. 
Establishment of Committees 
The Bill also empowers the Council to establish committees and refer to them for consideration and report any matter relevant to the purpose of the Council. The establishment of the Council proposed by this Bill represents a further and fundamental step in the progressive implementation of the industrial relations policies of the Government. Effective consultation and communication between government, employer and employee organisations is vital for the development of our nation. If Parliament agrees to the enactment of this legislation I shall take immediate steps to bring the Council into operation. 
The ACTU has already indicated that among the early issues which might be considered by the new Council could be an examination of the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In my 13 May statement welcoming the acceptance by the ACTU of an Industrial Relations Bureau and the re-constitution of a tripartite consultative council, I stressed that the Government was committed to legislating for the protection of individual rights in the industrial relations area but that it was prepared to review the provisions on these and other matters relating to the operation of the Act contained in the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill laid before the Parliament on 3 1 March in the light of their further consideration by the new Council. I will be asking the Council to consider these questions as a matter of priority. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Regulations 146AN and 146AO provide that the sealed containers containing the returned ballot papers are to be opened as soon as practicable after the time of the close of the ballot. 
Conciliation and Arbitration Regulation No. 146AQ  (Question No. 100) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regulation 146AQ provides that each candidate for election may appoint to be a scrutineer a person who is eligible under the rules of the organisation to be a scrutineer. I am advised that the effect of Regulation 146AB is that Regulation 146AQ applies irrespective of the rules of an organisation. 
I am also advised that rules which failed to provide for the appointment of scrutineers would be contrary to section 133 (1) (d) (v) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which requires that the rules provide for 'the appointment, conduct and duties of scrutineers to represent the candidates at the ballot'. 1 am further advised that the Industrial Registrar has refused to certify rules which preclude candidates from appointing scrutineers but provide for the appointment of scrutineers by persons other than candidates on the ground that such scrutineers could not be said 'to represent the candidates' and that such a provision imposes unreasonable conditions upon members, contrary to sub-section ( 1 ) of section 140 of the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) As the details of particular transactions within offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service must remain confidential, it is not appropriate for me to provide information in respect of these questions. 
Yes. The Special Youth Employment Training Programme aims to provide an incentive for employers to train long term unemployed youth. An employer may notify a training vacancy specifically for this programme. CES instructions specify that employers who are known to have retrenched employees and then requested a subsidy for training of new workers should be given low priority for any further training under the programme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Capital Territory, Employment and Industrial Relations, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Social Security, Veterans' Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Northern Territory, together with the Australian Legal Aid Office, the Public Service Board, the Australian Taxation Office, the Health Insurance Commission and the Australian Postal Commission. 
Examine and submit to me a report, with options and recommendations, on improvement of the quality of services provided to the general public by counter staff in Commonwealth Departments. 
The Committee first met on 1 S December 1 976. 
The Committee has recently reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) I am informed that so far as can be ascertained, Treasury did not set an estimate of the savings arising from the decision referred to. This is not to say that various figures may not have been discussed informally but there is no record of any formal estimate being provided by the Treasury, and the then Government did not provide an estimate in the budget papers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of persons registered as unemployed at Caringbah and Wollongong Employment Office Areas at end- June and December in each of the years requested were as follows: 
The proportion of unemployed who were registered at end-June and December in each of the years requested and aged (a) under 21 years and (b) 21 years of age and over were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought cannot be made available in the format requested without putting considerable resources into the analysis required. However. I can give the honourable member details of the number of young people in training under the Special Youth Employment Training Program in each CES district in Victoria as at 29.4.77. Detailed figures are set out in the attached table. The total number of young people in training under the program in Victoria at 29.4.77 was I 06S. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) One Proclamation has been made under sub-section 2 (2) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act 1976. 
The Proclamation was published in Australian Government Gazette No. S 121 of 8 July 1976. 
The Proclamation fixed 8 July 1976 as the date of operation of the amendments to the Principal Act referred to in sub-section 2(2) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act 1 976, other than the amendments made by section 13 of that Act. The Proclamation also fixed 9 August 1976 as the date of operation of the amendments made by section 13. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
$1337.13. 
Mainly the  Chairman  but Organisation officers also under exceptional circumstances and where specifically authorised by the  Chairman. 
The  Chairman. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has actually asked 3 questions. So far as the additional vocational officers in the Commonwealth Employment Service are concerned, I shall get the numbers and inform him of them. Aboriginal training under the NEAT scheme is an integral part of that scheme and provision is made for training of Aboriginals in the funding of this scheme as a whole. There is not separate provision for it. The funding of the NEAT scheme for the coming year has been approved with that in mind. We anticipate the NEAT scheme being able to continue to make the major contribution to Aboriginal training that it has in the past. As to the honourable gentleman 's final question-that is, why Aboriginal registrations for employment increased in March when normally there is a decline at that time- I am not aware of the trend in that month over the years. I shall examine that trend and again let the honourable gentleman have whatever information is available. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit 'and 33'. substitute ', 3 1 and 33'. 
This clause provides for specified sections of the Act to come into operation on the date of royal assent and for the remaining provisions to come into operation as proclaimed. As the clause stands, the provisions to come into operation on the date of royal assent are clause 1, which is the short title of the Act; this clause; the amendments to section 8 proposed by clause 6 to ensure parity of salary, annual allowances and travelling allowances as between presidential members of the Commission and judges of the Federal Court of Australia; and the amendment to section 7 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1975 that is proposed by clause 33 to correct a minor drafting error. The effect of the amendment I have moved is to include in the clauses to come into operation on the date of royal assent clause 31, which proposes an amendment to section 170 to enable a branch of an organisation as well as the organisation to apply to have elections of the branch's Federal conference delegates officially conducted. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended- 
. . . . 
by omitting from sub-section (I) the definition of "Employee" and substituting the following definition:  "Employee" means any employee in any industry and includes- 
any person whose usual occupation is that of an employee in any industry; and 
any person employed in an industry, or engaged in an industrial pursuit in the State of New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia or Western Australia who- 
in the case of a person so employed or engaged in New South Wales-is an employee for the purposes of the  Industrial Arbitration Act  1940 of that State or that Act as amended from time to time; 
in the case of a person so employed or engaged in Queensland-is an employee for the purposes of the  Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act  1961-1976 of that State or that Act as amended from time to time; 
in the case of a person so employed or engaged in South Austrafia- is an employee for the purposes of the  Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Aci,  1972-1975 of that State or that Act as amended from time to time; or 
in the case of a person so employed or engaged in Western Australia- is a worker for the purposes of the  Industrial Arbitration Act,  1912-1976 of that State or that Act as amended from time to time: '; and 
by inserting in sub-section (1 ). after the definition of "Full Bench", the following definition:  "Industrial action" means- 
the performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to work, the result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of the work or a tendency to restrict, limit or delay the performance of the work: or 
b ) a ban. limitation or restriction on the performance of work or on acceptance or offering for work: ': and 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the definition of Inspector'. 
I move: 
Omit paragraphs (d ) and (e). 
The paragraphs to be retained in this clause are: Paragraph (a), which relates to the definition of authorised person'; paragraph (b), which relates to the definition of 'Bureau'; paragraph 
, which relates to the definition of 'Director'; and paragraph (0. which deletes the existing definition of 'inspector'. The effect of the amendment is to omit paragraph (d), which relates to the definition of 'employee', and paragraph (e), which relates to the definition of 'industrial action'. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 54 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting sub-section ( 1 ) and substituting the following sub-section: 
) Where, in the opinion of a member of the Commission a matter concerning the safety of employees or of other persons in or about a place of work arises in or in connexion with an industrial dispute, he may request the Bureau to arrange for an authorized person forthwith to investigate the matter and to report to him as soon as practicable."; 
by omitting sub-sections (2) and (3) and substituting the following sub-section: "(2) Section 126q applies in relation to an investigation under sub-section ( 1 ) of this section."; and 
by omitting from sub-section (4) the word "Inspector" and substituting the words "authorized person".'. 
The effect of the amendment is to retain in substance the existing section 54 of the Act. The words 'authorised person' and 'Director of the Bureau ' will be substituted for the words 'Inspector' and 'Secretary to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations'. In addition, the existing section 54 enables a member of the Commission to have an arbitration inspector investigate and report on a safety issue involved in an industrial dispute. A member of the Commission was required to make the report public unless it was undesirable to do so. As it stands, in addition to substituting the words 'authorised person' and 'Director of the Bureau' for the words 'Inspector' and 'Secretary to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations', the clause would remove the requirement to publicise the report. The effect of the amendment is to retain the words now contained in section 54 of the Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clauses 13 to 15- by leave- taken together. 
3. Section 62 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), after the word 'Minister', the words', the Bureau'; and 
by inserting in paragraph (a) of sub-section ( 1 ), after the word 'Act', the words 'or the regulations '. 
Section 109 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in paragraph (b) of sub-section (1 ), after the word 'Act', the words 'or the regulations'; and 
by inserting in sub-section (2), after the word interest', the words 'or the Bureau may, in the public- interest, '. 
5. After section 109 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 109A. (1) Where, in proceedings before the Court against an organization or an officer of an organization being- 
a ) proceedings under section 1 1 1 for a contempt; 
proceedings under section 1 19 for the imposition of a penalty; or 
proceedings for an offence against this Act, the Court finds the organization or the officer guilty, the Court, instead of imposing a penalty on the organization or officer, may, if it thinks it just to do so, by order- 
in the case of an organization- exercise, in relation to the organization or all or any of its members, one or more of the powers set out in sub-section ( 3 ); or 
in the case of an officer- exercise, in relation to him and to his office, the power set out in paragraph (a). or the powers set out in paragraphs (a) and (b), of sub-section (3). 
Where, in proceedings before the Court under section 143 on a ground set out in paragraph (h), (j) or (k) of subsection ( 1 ) of that section for an order directing the cancellation of the registration of an organization, the Court finds that the ground on which the proceedings are based has been established, the Court may, if it thinks it just to do so, by order, exercise, in relation to the organization or all or any of its members, one or more of the powers set out in sub-section (3) and, if it does so, it shall defer the determination of the question whether to direct the cancellation of the registration of the organization until such time as any orders made in pursuance of those powers have ceased to be in force. 
The powers that may be exercised by the Court by order under sub-section ( 1 ) or (2 ) are as follows: 
a ) power to suspend, to the extent specified in the order, any of the rights, privileges or capacities of the organization or of all or any of its members, as such members, under this Act or any other Act or under awards or determinations under this Act or under any other Act; 
power to give directions as to the exercise of any rights, privileges or capacities that have been so suspended; 
power to make provision for restricting the use of the funds or property of the organization or a branch of the organization and for the control of those funds or that property for the purpose of ensuring observance of the restrictions. 
Where the Court has, under sub-section (2), deferred the determination of the question whether to direct the cancellation of the registration of an organization, the Court may, notwithstanding that sub-section, at any time, upon application by a party or the Bureau, proceed to determine that question if, having regard to any matters established to its satisfaction concerning the observance or non-observance of any order and to any other relevant circumstance, it thinks it just to do so. 
5 ) An order or direction under this section has effect notwithstanding anything in the rules of the organization or of a branch of the organization. 
An order made in pursuance of a power conferred by sub-section (3) shall, unless sooner revoked, cease to be in force at the expiration of 6 months from the day on which it came into force but may, at any time while it remains in force, be extended in duration by a further order made by the Court on the application of a party to the proceedings in which the original order was made or by the Bureau. 
An order made in pursuance of a power conferred by sub-section (3) may be revoked at any time by a further order of the Court made on an application to the Court by a party to the proceedings in which the original order was made or by the Bureau. 
In any proceedings referred to in sub-section (1) or (2), the Court may, if it thinks it just to do so, adjourn the proceedings and direct the Industrial Registrar to make arrangements for the submission of a matter that the Court is satisfied is relevant to the exercise of its powers in the proceedings to a vote of all or any of the members of the organization taken by secret ballot and authorize the Industrial Registrar to give such directions as the Industrial Registrar thinks necessary for ensuring the secrecy of votes and otherwise for the purposes of the conduct of the ballot or the communication of the result of the ballot to the Court. 
Section 46 (other than sub-section (1) ) applies in relation to a ballot conducted in accordance with a direction by the Court under sub-section ( 8 ) as if the ballot were a ballot ordered under section 45. 
The Court shall take judicial notice of the result of a ballot conducted under sub-section (8). 
1 1 ) A person shall not fail to comply with, or obstruct or hinder the carrying out of- 
a ) a provision of an order by the Court made in the exercise of a power conferred by sub-section (3): or 
a direction by the Industrial Registrar under subsection (8). 
Penalty: $400 or imprisonment for 6 months or both or, in the case of an offence referred to in sub-section (12), $400 for each day during which the offence is to be deemed to continue or imprisonment for 6 months or both. 
12) Where an offence against sub-section ( 1 1 ) is committed by a person by reason of his failure to comply, within the period specified in an order or direction with the requirements specified in the order or direction, the offence shall, for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 1 ), be deemed to continue so long as any requirement specified in the order or direction remains undone, notwithstanding that the period has elapsed. 
Proceedings for an offence against sub-section (11) shall be brought in the Court.'. 
Clauses (on motion by  Mr Street)  negatived. 
Clause 16 agreed to. 
Clause 17. 
Section 1 19 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraphs (a) and (aa) of sub-section (2) and substituting the following paragraph: 
the Bureau; or'. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 1 19 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraph (aa) of sub-section (2) and substituting the following paragraph: "(aa) the Bureau; or".'. 
Clause 17 as it stands proposes an amendment to section 1 19 to enable the Bureau to seek penalties for breaches of awards and to remove that function from the registrar. The effect of the proposed alterations to that clause is to retain the registrar while adding the Bureau. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
Sections 125 and 126 of the Principal Act are repealed. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clauses: 18.(1) Section 1 25 of the Principal Act is repealed. 
Where, immediately before the commencement of this section, a party to proceedings before a court under this Act was an Inspector, the Bureau shall take the place of the 
Inspector as such party and the proceedings shall continue accordingly.  18a. Section 126 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words'or an Inspector". . 
This is an appropriate time to refer to an aspect of the speech made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in the second reading debate when he alleged that the Arbitration Inspectorate was opposed to the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau. He used as his authority for that assertion an article which had appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  I have a letter from the  president  of the Arbitration Inspectors' Association and to save time I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  If leave is not given I will read it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 


 Mr Anthony Hill 
Journalist 
The Australian Financial Review 
Parliament House 
Canberra 
Dear  Sir 
The article under your name and attributed to me is out of context with our conversation on the proposed legislation for the Industrial Relations Bureau. During our discussion on the legislation I pointed out in my opinion certain aspects of the legislation would be unworkable and this should have been reported as such. Other material used in your article was not given by me, the structure of the article gave the impression that it was. 
Your article has caused embarrassment to me with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. It has also made my position with the Arbitration Inspectors Association invidious. 
In all fairness I believe you should retract that article and use material given to you by me, in the manner in which it was given. 
I reiterate the Arbitration Inspectors Association is not opposed to the Industrial Relations Bureau. 
Yours sincerely 
L.C. KIDD 
President 
Arbitration Inspectors Association 16 May 1977. 
Clause 18 as it stands proposes the repeal of sections 125 and 126 which deal with the appointment and functions of inspectors. The effect of the proposed amendment to clause 18 is to retain section 126 while the substance of section 125 is to be re-enacted in amendments proposed to clause 19, particularly in proposed section 126A. The amendment also proposes a transitional provision to enable the Bureau to take over proceedings which already have been commenced by an inspector. In addition the amendment proposes that section 126 be amended by omitting the words 'or an Inspector'. The effect of this amendment will be that the Commission will be able to direct the registrar to institute proceedings for an offence but will not be able to direct the inspector's successor, the Bureau. This is consistent with the Bureau being a completely independent body. 
I make a couple of points. I must admit that I was surprised and disappointed that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  chose to attack a  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Mr Justice  Alley, and the Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr Taylor,  both of whom are distinguished members of the Commission. Having said that, the Government is not prepared to accept the suggestion of the Opposition. I refer to the statement I made prior to the resumption of the second reading debate today wherein I quoted from the Australian Council of Trade Unions statement of 11 May about adhering to principle. That was an important, and I am quite sure, deliberate inclusion in the ACTU statement. Quite clearly, in the terms in which we have always presented this body, that means that the Industrial Relations Bureau must be an independent and statutory body. That is and always has been basic to the whole concept of it. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Street's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
In proposed section 126a. (3), omit 'section 136l'. substitute 'sub-section ( 1 ) of section 126n '. 
10) Omit proposed section 126p. 
Omit proposed sections126Q and126R, substitute the following proposed section: "126Q. (1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether awards and the requirements of this Act or the regulations are being, or have been, observed, an authorized person may, at any time during ordinary working hours or at any other time at which it is reasonably necessary to do so for that purpose- 
enter, without force- 
a building or place (including a vessel, aircraft or vehicle) in or on which he has reasonable cause to believe that work to which an award is or was applicable is being, or has been, performed; or 
a place of business of any person in which he has reasonable cause to believe that there are books or documents relevant to that purpose; 
in a building or place referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a)- 
inspect any work or any material, machinery, appliance, article or facility; 
in accordance with regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph, take samples of any goods or substance; or 
interview any employee; and 
by notice in writing or orally, require a person having the custody of, or access to, a book or document relevant to that purpose (whether kept at premises entered by the authorized person in pursuance of this section or elsewhere) to produce it for his inspection in accordance with the requirement, and inspect, and take extracts from, any such book or document. "(2) If an authorized person proposing to enter, or being in or on, a building or other place is required by the occupier or person in charge of the building or other place to produce evidence of his authority to that occupier or person, the authorized person is not entitled to enter or remain in or on that building or other place unless he produces to that occupier or other person a document signed by the Director certifying that he is an authorized person for the purposes of this Act. "(3) A person who hinders or obstructs an authorized person in the exercise of his duties, refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a requirement made by an authorized person in accordance with paragraph (c) of subsection ( I ) or makes to an authorized person, in the course of his duties, a statement, whether orally or in writing, that is false or misleading in any particular, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: $500 or imprisonment for 6 months. ". '. 
12) Omit sub-section (2) of proposed section 126T, substitute the following sub-section: " '(2 ) The Minister shall lay a copy of each report received by him under sub-section ( 1 ) before each House of the Parliament as soon as practicable after its receipt by him. '. ". 
-Amendment No. 9 has the effect of correcting a drafting error. Sub-section (1) of section 126N is substituted for section 136L. Amendment No. 10 has the effect of omitting what was the proposed section 126P and amendment No. 1 1 omits the proposed sections 126Q and 126R and substitutes a proposed combined section as printed in the series of amendments which have been circulated. 
I want to make a couple of comments about the speech made by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon).  The honourable member made some statements that I just cannot allow to go unchallenged-I should like to put on record that there has been no breach whatever of the agreement reached between the Government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I reiterate what I said earlier in this Committee debate when I quoted from the ACTU's statement of 1 1 May which recognised the importance, in its words, of adhering to principle whilst avoiding dislocation and confrontation. This adherence to principle means that the Industrial Relations Bureau must be an independent statutory body. I repeat that is, and has always been, basic to its concept, and we have always said so. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Question put: 
That the clause, as amended, be agreed to. 
(4.7-I move: 
Omit the clause. 
This amendment will have the effect of omitting clause 32 which in turn will have the effect of leaving section 1 88 in the principal Act. 
Clause negatived. 
Clause 33 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the National Labour Consultative Council Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
In relation to the first part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  on behalf of the Opposition, I should point out that considerable discussions were held early in 1 976 about the possible composition of what we are now calling the National Labour Consultative Council, and it was at that stage that the number of 16 members was decided. The honourable member was quite correct in saying that the exclusion of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations was not accidental, and I am able to supply the reason for that exclusion. I am not happy about supplying it but I can do it. During the consultations of 1 1 May which led up to the statement of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on that date, the ACSPA representatives at the consultations indicated that, although their constitution did not allow them to bind their organisation to acceptance of the ACTU proposals, they had broad support for the proposals. Then on 1  1  May ACSPA issued a statement formulated in the light of policy decisions and discussions with affiliates. It will be noted that that date was subsequent to the informal indication, if I can put it that way, given by the ACSPA representatives at the discussions of 1 1 May. Paragraph 4 of the ACSPA document states: 
ACSPA is opposed to any proposal which indicates to the Government that if it wants to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing penal sanctions into the hands of a body which it wishes to designate an Industrial Relations Bureau, the union movement would offer no objection. 
ACSPA made its acceptance of NLCC membership contingent on such a proposal not going forward, which it now is in accordance with the debate this afternoon. It was in the light of that statement that ACSPA was excluded. It will be noted that 6 members are to be nominated by the ACTU, and if at some future date ACSPA changes its mind and abandons the stand it took in paragraph 4 of the statement of 1 7 May it may well be that it can persuade the ACTU that one of the 6 members nominated by that organisation should be a member of ACSPA. 
All I can do for the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is to refer him back to the statement of the Australian Council of Trade Unions of 1 1 May 1977 which he himself asked to have incorporated in full in the  Hansard  record. So far as the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations is concerned, the document of 17 May states: 
A pre-condition of ACSPA participating in such a council -  that is the National Labour Consultative Council-  would have to be an indication by the Australian Government that it will not proceed with the present Bill and that it will refer same to the NLAC. 
The document goes on to state in point No. 4 what I have just quoted. ACSPA is opposed to any proposal which indicates to the Government that if it wants to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing penal sanctions into the hands of a body which it wishes to designate an Industrial Relations Bureau the union movement would offer no objection. So far as the others are concerned, I refer the honourable member for Hindmarsh to the statement that he has already had incorporated in  Hansard. 
Obviously, I cannot speak for the organisations concerned. I can only go on what they have issued. That is already in the  Hansard  record. So far as the National Labour Consultative Council is concerned, obviously it will be a statutory body with an obligation to meet at least once a quarter. If organisations, for one reason or another, refuse to participate or choose not to participate, that obviously is their concern. I hope that all bodies eligible to participate in the NLCC recognise it as a constructive move towards achieving a better industrial relations climate in Australia. That is the Government's objective, and I feel sure that that would be an objective shared by those organisations which are able to participate. 
The Australian Statistician has provided the following answer: 
A survey of Earnings and Hours of Employees was conducted in May 1 976 and covered all wage and salary earners except: members of the defence forces; employees in agriculture; employees in private households employing staff; waterside workers employed on a casual basis;  persons employed by private employers (other than hospitals) not subject to payroll tax. 
The percentage of employees covered by this Survey who ordinarily worked a standard working week (excluding overtime) of the selected numbers of hours were estimated to be: 
40 hours; males 70 percent, females 47 percent, total persons 62 percent 
b ) 363/4 hours; males 5 per cent, females 5 per cent, total persons 5 per cent 
35 hours or less; males 1 1 per cent, females 31 per cent, total persons 1 8 per cent. 
The remaining employees worked a standard working week of durations other than the above, or did not work any standard hours; these were males 1 4 per cent, females 1 7 per cent, total persons 1 5 percent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government believes that private agreements providing for wage and salary increases or leading to other increases in labour costs should not be inconsistent with the wage indexation guidelines laid down by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and generally adopted by State industrial tribunals. 
The Government supports the application of the wage indexation guidelines irrespective of salary level. 
Yes. 
Development Strategies which Benefit the Poorest Groups  (Question No. 789) 
-I cannot confirm off-hand the dates and figures given by the honourable gentleman. I can check those. Of course, neither am I in a position to comment on any jobs which were pursued through a private employment agency. However, I snail endeavour to find out what jobs the person involved was referred to through the Commonwealth Employment Service office. 
-The Director-General of the Department of Social Security does not come within my area of responsibility. 
I am not personally aware of the proposals outlined by the honourable gentleman. He certainly looks well able to cope with any monitoring arrangements which might be set up. I shall seek advice from my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services to see whether he has any plans in mind. 
-The Minister for Administrative Services has supplied me with the following information in answer to the honourable gentleman's question: Since January 1977, Commonwealth Police in Brisbane have been investigating information received by them that a group of Aborigines had been committing crimes by stealing Government cheques from letter boxes and forging and uttering. On 6 April 1977, 5 Aborigines in the Brisbane area were arrested by Police for the stealing, forging and uttering of stolen cheques. I am informed that 5 persons are on remand awaiting trial. Since 6 April 1977, 4 other persons, consisting of 3 Aboriginals and a postman, have been arrested by Commonwealth Police on similar charges. The postman and one Aboriginal have been convicted since, relative to those charges. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Commonwealth Grants 
Commission Act 1973, I present the Commonwealth Grants Commission Special Report (1977) on financial assistance for local government. The report has been referred to the Premiers for their consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) At 28 February 1977, 1 10 Public Service Act staff, 163 Postal Services Act staff and 472 Telecommunications Act staff were employed in the electoral division of Capricornia. Similar information in respect of other Commonwealth staff is not centrally recorded and maintained. To obtain such information would require considerable effort and man hours, which I am not prepared to authorise. In any event, I would not expect these numbers to be great. 
These staff were located as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 )-Enrolment statistics relating to municipalities are not maintained by the Australian Electoral Office. 
Should the honourable member require any enrolment statistics relating to any division or subdivision during the periods available to persons to make suggestions and comments to the Distribution Commissioners,he should write directly to the Australian Electoral Officer in the State concerned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 8 December 1976. 
I am sufficiently familiar with both reports to recognise the need for close further study before policy decisions are taken. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) As I informed the Senate on 3 May (Senate  Hansard,  3 May 1977, page 1072) I have not yet received the report but expect to do so shortly. 
I am aware of the substance of the report of the Committee of Inquiry and its recommendations. I will study the matter further, together with the report of the interdepartmental group on the subject when received. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Approximately 450 copies of the index to the debates of each House of the Parliament are issued in pamphlet form. Copies are sent to all subscribers to the weekly issues. Indexes are not distributed to recipients of free weekly  Hansards  or of the daily  Hansard  but they may be purchased from the Australian Government Publishing Service Bookshops or Mail Order Service, P.O. Box 84, Canberra, A.C.T. Current charges are 90 cents for the House of Representatives index and 60 cents for the Senate index. 
Investigations do not reveal that the index has ever been distributed to the recipients of free copies of the  Hansard.  Circulation to them would involve increasing the index printing by approximately 12 000 copies for each House at a cost of about $22,000 per issue. Determination of the extent of the free distribution of the indexes is a responsibility of the Presiding Officers. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Paragraph 2.52 of the Committee's report states in part: 
Though there are some localities throughout the nation where library services are adequate, or even of a high standard, the overall picture is one of very uneven and poor standards of service. There was, moreover, evidence of lack of co-operation between libraries in making the most effective use of resources available to them. 
and (3)1 have not yet received the report of the interdepartmental group that is examining the report of the Committee of Inquiry. 
I understand from  Mr Norgard  that he has finished the report. I have not yet received it. It may be ready at the end of this week. The report will then have to be printed. I anticipate being able to make it public, when sufficient copies have been printed, about the end of June. 
I am happy to be able to report that after question time I will be tabling a statement regarding the establishment of an inquiry into what has become known as the 'Toomer case'. I pay tribute to the persistence of the honourable member for Canning in his efforts to get such an inquiry established. As the honourable member said, the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration recommended the establishment of an appropriately constituted board of inquiry outside the Public Service to inquire into this case. Legal advice is that such an inquiry as envisaged by the Royal Commission cannot be conducted properly unless the body conducting the inquiry is vested with powers to compel attendance of witnesses and production of documents and unless that body and the people appearing before it have protection from liability for defamation. Apart from a royal commission, there is no body independent of the Public Service which would have such powers or in respect of which there could be such protection. 
The Government does not believe that the formal processes of a royal commission would be appropriate for an inquiry concerned with an evaluation of personnel and administrative issues. But there are provisions in the Public Service Act under which such an inquiry can be established. It will be conducted by  Mr R.  J. Perriman, at present a First Assistant Commissioner in the Department of Veterans ' Affairs and by  Mr G.  P. Temme, Assistant Secretary, Department of Defence, who will deal with the legal and administrative matters as they affect the Defence Forces. I emphasise that neither of these officers has had any prior connection with the case. Finally, I inform the House that, again due in no small measure to the efforts of the honourable member for Canning, arrangements are being made for  Mr Toomer  to be given legal assistance in relation to the preparation of submissions he may wish to make to the inquiry. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the third annual report of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation 1975-76. 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement concerning an inquiry into the case of  Mr William  Frederick Toomer, an officer of the Department of Health in Western Australia. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act until 1 January 1978. 1 had expected that I would be introducing this Bill as part of a legislative package that would set before the Parliament the precise nature of the arrangements of the Government proposes for the stevedoring industry. Because of the legislative program, however, it is simply not possible to introduce that legislation this session. 
This is unfortunate for, since November of last year when I outlined to the House the Government's position on future arrangements in the industry, a very great deal of work has been done. I intend to outline in this speech the decisions which the Government has taken. It will be my intention to introduce early in the Budget session the legislation which will clear the way for the introduction of new arrangements in the industry. 
I told the House last November that provided the industry could place before the Government a viable alternative to the present regulatory arrangements applying to the industry under the stevedoring industry legislation the Government would be prepared to discontinue its direct intervention in the industry through the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I outlined a number of requirements which the Government considered were essential to any new arrangements that might be devised by the industry. I also said that an essential first step would be to ensure that the size of the labour force in the industry was reduced to a level properly attuned to efficient stevedoring operations. Let me outline briefly for honourable members what has taken place since November. 
First of all,  Mr Justice  Robinson of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission chaired a conference of the parties which resulted in a special redundancy program being introduced into the industry for a limited period. Under that program which was endorsed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission special benefits accrued to waterside workers who left the industry by the end of March this year. This resulted in some 900 men opting to leave their employment in the industry in addition to more than 300 who left the industry in 1976. Since June 1975, the number of waterside workers has been reduced by almost 3000, including 2100 who have accepted voluntary retrenchment. The cost of this in paying benefits to waterside workers has not been light. By the same token, it represents a recognition by all parties to the industry that the level of the labour force has had to be reduced. I am pleased to say that the reduction has been achieved without disruption. I shall come back to redundancy later in this speech. In December 1976, I convened the National Stevedoring Industry Conference under the chairmanship of the former  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby. This Conference was attended by representatives of the employer body covering the conventional and terminal areas, the National Industrial Council, by the Waterside Workers Federation, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Australian National Line and officers of my Department, including a representative of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. 
In addition, the Conference invited a wide range of other parties with an interest in the industry to consult with it. Their views are reflected in the report of the Conference and obviously influenced many aspects of what the Conference put forward to me. The Conference met from late December until early April and accomplished a great deal of detailed work in putting before me a viable alternative to the statutory arrangements applying in the industry. I take this opportunity of expressing my warm appreciation to  Sir Richard  Kirby for accepting my invitation to chair the Conference. He took on this task at considerable inconvenience to himself and to Lady Kirby. The report outlines a framework which would involve the industry taking responsibility for managing its own affairs. 
The report will now be available publicly. It presents to the Government detailed arrangements for: future distribution of labour within the industry; periodic adjustment of labour; procedures for the transfer of labour between employers; arrangements for the introduction of a supplementary labour scheme in the major ports in addition to that which already operates in smaller ports; consultative arrangements to allow all relevant interests to have an effective voice in the industry's affairs; the setting up of a committee structure at the national and port levels to manage the new arrangements; adding labour to and removing it from the workforce; and improving industrial relations. These are all subjects to which the Government attaches particular importance. I laid down certain requirements about them in my second reading speech of November last. The Conference spells out its proposals in detail as to all of these matters and then sets out how it believes the remainder of the total framework should be developed. I was particularly pleased to see that the Conference placed much emphasis on preparation of the industry for the new arrangements and I know that already the industry has been pursuing in even more detail how the arrangements should be implemented and how both sides of the industry should obtain the best possible appreciation of what is intended. The fact that I am not now introducing the legislation that would permit the new arrangements to operate has a particular advantage in that connection. It will enable the industry to go even further in developing this all important task of preparation. 
Let me make some observations about the significant features of the Kirby report. One of the most difficult problems associated with the present arrangements has been to devise a method- acceptable to all employers- of determining company quotas to ensure equitable distribution of labour between 'operational' employers. The aim of the Conference has been to overcome this problem. The present system whereby labour in the major ports is employed in a pool would be abolished and that labour distributed to employers in the port. It has devised a method of determining the appropriate labour strength of conventional stevedores in accordance with a mathematical formula based on labour usage over the previous 12 months. There is provision for quarterly reviews of the labour strength of conventional stevedores with adjustments according to variations in relative employment levels of the respective employers. The proposed method of determining labour strengths is designed to ensure that no employer gains an unfair advantage and that the labour is distributed equitably and in accordance with the relative volume of business. Because of their more stabilised labour requirements, the Conference has recognised the special needs of terminals and depots so that they are not included in the automatic review and adjustment of labour strengths. The Conference has recognised the special needs of Newcastle and Port Kembla. It has developed a scheme involving part of the labour force remaining in a pool administered by the employers organisation. 
The Conference proposes that all surplus labour of any employer should be made available for use by all other employers in the port. This is an entirely new concept and has the full support of the principal parties, including the Waterside Workers Federation. It represents a gain of some magnitude and should result in substantial savings to the industry. The new arrangements provide for the establishment of a supplementary labour force in the major ports in addition to the existing arrangements for supplementary labour applying in the smaller ports. This availability of additional labour will go a long way towards meeting port shortages during temporary periods of increased labour requirements. In turn, this should reduce delays to vessels needing labour. In times of continuing shortages of a temporary nature the industry will also be able to increase the available hours of work of the entire work force by the addition of an extended shift per week and the extension of all shifts to complete vessels which are to finish and sail. This represents a valuable increase in the hours of work when they are most needed. 
The Conference has developed a detailed scheme for dealing with recruitment and redundancy in an orderly fashion. It has established, for example, a system of port quotas and interport transfers. In light of experience in recent years the Conference proposes that voluntary means be employed to separate surplus men from the industry. The employers, however, have reserved their right to seek compulsory redundancy arrangements when the current terms and conditions contract in the industry expires in May next year. I have already spoken of the large number of men who have left the industry by voluntary means in recent years. The Government will watch with very great interest the operation of the voluntary redundancy arrangements. The federal and port co-ordinating committees proposed by the Conference as a means of ordering relationships between the parties in the industry at the port and national levels will be essentially consultative in nature. They are intended to achieve agreement between the parties for the management of industrial affairs while primary responsibility for administrative arrangements rests with the employers. The Conference has recognised that, because of the nature of the matters with which these committees will be dealing, they should be established by legislation. The Government will introduce legislation to achieve this. 
Of very great significance to the Government was the need to ensure improved industrial relations in the industry. It is true to say that relationships in the industry have improved significantly over the last 10 years but the Government wants the industry to put even more work into this. I am pleased to note from the Kirby report that it recommends the appointment of port conciliators whose task it will be to settle job disputes. The Conference was assisted in its consideration of this matter by  Mr Justice  Robinson and Commissioner Neil. The Conference recognises the need to have the port conciliators appointed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Anyone who knows of the past history of this subject will see this as a major step forward. We will legislate to enable the Commission to appoint the port conciliators. 
Throughout the report the Conference recognises the role to be played by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It accepts that with the withdrawal of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority the jurisdiction of the Commission should be widened so that it may deal with such matters as entry of labour into the industry, the transfer of labour, determining the size of the labour force, redundancy and supplementary labour forces. The Government will introduce legislation next session to widen the jurisdiction of the Commission to accommodate these matters. This will bring a new dimension to the work of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Government recognises what has been done by voluntary means to reduce the size of the labour force. We shall therefore include in the legislation a provision that the Commission may not award compulsory redundancy. The legislation will, however, contain a mechanism which will enable the Commission to make such an award if situations should emerge which show that the industry itself is not capable of settling issues of this nature by voluntary means. 
The report recognises that there should be opportunities for interests associated with, but not directly involved in, the industry to consult with the industry and Government as to the affairs of the industry. Thus, it proposes the establishment of the Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council with broad terms of reference and wide-ranging membership going well outside the parties directly concerned in the industry. The Government has accepted this proposal in principle and I shall move to establish the proposed Council after proper consultation with all those interests whom the report suggests should provide the standing membership of the proposed Council. I would add that the concept of the Council is that it would consist not only of the standing members. There would be every opportunity for other interests in the community to join in the Council 's discussions as the need to do so arose. 
The Government has concluded that the report of the Conference has covered adequately the matters that I raised with it. I believe significant gains will have been made with the introduction of the arrangements that the Conference has put forward. While the Conference was carrying out its work a consultant to my Department was also working on the proposed details of future funding in the industry. Honourable members will be aware that by long standing legislation of this Parliament there are established central funding arrangements to meet costs associated with the operation of the industry. I refer here to the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act which imposes a tax on each manhour of employment of waterside workers with the proceeds of that tax going to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. In a detailed report the consultant,  Mr Neil  Stevens, suggests a future financial framework.  His  report is now available as a public document. 
Some of the main features of his report are that he envisages the creation of a cental funding body for the industry; proposes the introduction of a levy on tonnage to secure recovery of what is commonly called the 'industry deficit' so that payments for long service leave may be secured; proposes that any ultimate surplus in the funds of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority should go towards reducing the industry deficit; proposes that the Authority's financial assets and/or liabilities should be taken up by the proposed central funding body; and proposes revised man-hour levies mainly to meet obligations of employers in the smaller pons and the provision of payments by employers to the Stevedoring Employees Retirement Fund. A notable feature of  Mr Stevens'  report is his suggestion that there be continued central statutory funding arrangements. The Government has accepted this recommendation in the interests of public scrutiny of the large sums of money that will be involved. It therefore will legislate to set up a Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee by statute to oversight the distribution of funds to be derived from statutory levies to which I will come shortly. 
The Committee will have corporate status but its members, to be drawn from the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Australian National Line and the Waterside Workers Federation, will not be full time functionaries. Moreover, it will be able to make arrangements with the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour to provide the necessary administrative backing for its operations. Its accounts will be subject to scrutiny by the Auditor-General and it will be required to produce an annual report to me for presentation to Parliament together with a statement of its audited accounts. We shall also legislate in the Budget session for a revised system of stevedoring levies. These levies will be imposed on manhours of employment for the purposes that I have outlined already and by a combination of a special surcharge on man-hours as to bulk cargoes and on tonnage of cargoes handled by waterside workers in order to recover the socalled 'industry deficit'. We will make special provision for the interstate trade by instituting a reduced rate of tonnage levy on cargoes loaded by waterside workers in connection with that trade. We shall introduce legislation to impose these levies and to govern the collection of them. 
Two further pieces of legislation will need to be introduced. The first of these will be a Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. This will be necessary to make adjustments to Division 4 of Part III of the Act, which is a special division under which the Commission exercises jurisdiction as to the stevedoring industry. It is a division which now deals with the traditional areas of work of waterside workers and we propose to maintain that in the amending legislation. Thus, the special provisions of the current Stevedoring Industry Act as to certain bulk handling work and stevedoring work in 'industrial undertakings' will continue to be excluded from the operation of Division 4. We shall also include provisions designed to preserve the concept of the special position of the bulk handling companies which are now in the Stevedoring Industry Act. I must emphasise, however, that the very fact that we shall be repealing the current stevedoring industry legislation which regulates the industry will not make it possible to preserve that concept by the same legislative techniques. 
I mentioned earlier that we would expand the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and that will also be done within the scope of Division 4 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It will be under this Act that we will establish the proposed federal and port coordinating committees in the industry and permit the appointment by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of port conciliators. Finally, there will be a need for legislation to repeal the considerable number of Stevedoring Industry and Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Acts that have been passed since 1956. A Bill will be introduced to achieve this, with suitable transitional arrangements included in it. 
I regret that time has not permitted the introduction and passage of this total parcel of legislation. However, as I have already said, it is our intention to introduce it and secure its passage very early in the Budget session. I do not expect that this will have much, if any, effect upon the introduction of the new arrangements that the Government has endorsed. Indeed, in the coming months the parties will be able to spend time on the all-important task of preparation of the industry for those new arrangements and attending to the enormous amount of detailed work required. The regulatory scheme in relation to this industry has now operated for 35 years; the dismantling of it is no mean task. Every effort must be made to ensure the smoothest possible transition from the old to the new. The new arrangements must be given time to work themselves in, and it would be a mistake to judge them too quickly after their introduction. Their introduction will represent a bold step. The Government will encourage them to succeed. It will therefore be watching their operation with keen attention and it will want to assess how they have performed after a reasonable interval. It is in these circumstances that the Government will, by appropriate means, institute a review of their operation 12 months after they have been introduced. 
There are two further things that I wish to say to the House. First, I want to place on record my appreciation of the work that has been done in the Kirby conference by the parties to the industry and all those other parties who took the time to have discussions with and place views before that conference. The conference wasted no time in getting its work done and producing its report. That was undoubtedly due to the spirit of cooperation amongst all those who took part in it. I again express my special thanks to  Sir Richard  Kirby. I also wish to pay tribute to the officers of my own Department for the tremendous personal contributions they have made towards working out a better structure for the Australian waterfront. They have been absolutely untiring in their efforts, far beyond what could reasonably be expected of them. 
On earlier occasions I have emphasised the concern that I have for the staff of the Authority and its Director in having to cope with what must be, to them, a period of strain. The Authority still has its functions to perform. It is performing them under increasing difficulties, and the fact that it will now have to continue in operation for some months to come will not ease the situation for it. I express my thanks to the staff of the Authority and to the Director for carrying on their work under these difficulties. I assure them, however, that in all that I have been doing to develop the new framework I the industry I have been most conscious of the need to keep the Authority's staff informed and to reduce, as far as possible, any delays in the introduction of those arrangements. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a companion to that to amend the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act which I have just introduced. The Bill would extend the life of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Amendment Act 1975 until 1 June 1978, pending the introduction of the program of legislation which I have outlined in my second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Amendment Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics has advised that: 
Estimates derived from the February 1977 Labour Force Survey show that the total number of employees in Australia in February 1977was4987 700. 
Estimates of female employees by age and marital status as a percentage of all employees are not available in all of the age groups requested. However, the following table, derived from the February 1977 Labour Force Survey, shows percentages for the nearest available age groupings: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Statistics on industrial disputes are available only on a State basis, and are not available for cities and major towns within States. 
Medibank Claims at Broken Hill, Mildura and Whyalla (Question No. 506) 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Stevedoring Industry Charge Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-in reply- I can assure the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson ) that the 2 reports that he referred to will be made available to him. There is a shortage of the reports but I am sure we will find enough for the use of his committee. If he will let me know the numbers he requires I shall see that he gets them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
The classification of occupation to be shown on the Commonwealth Electoral Roll is provided initially by a claimant on the claim card when seeking enrolment. Where a claimant endorses occupation as 'home duties' or 'housewife' the occupation is normally entered in the Roll in the abbreviated form 'HD'. 
There is no plan by the Australian Electoral Office to substitute another title in such cases. However, it is the prerogative of each claimant to endorse his or her occupation on the claim card when seeking enrolment. Should an elector record 'home executive ' or other apposite classification on his or her claim card, the Australian Electoral Office would enter these details on the Roll using, as necessary, an appropriate abbreviation. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2), (3) and (4). The information sought by the honourable member is set out in the following table compiled by the Australian Electoral Office. 
-The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) Details for chaner aircraft costs within Australia are set out in the table below prepared in my Department from accounts processed as at 20 May 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately 2250. 
b) No public servants receive a salary of exactly $2 1 , 250. However, the total above includes approximately 500 staff employed in salary ranges with minimum and maximum salaries which straddle $2 1,250. 
-The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) ( a ) I do not have this information. 
(i) The electorate secretaries of Federal Parliamentarians receive salary in the range $9,207-9,773. 
Other benefits are as provided in accordance with the Public Service Act and related legislation. 
(a) The average number of constituents in State electoral divisions is as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) As for Public Service Act staff generally, a break in service of 12 months or less does not automatically preclude electorate secretaries and electorate assistants from accrued sick leave and long service leave entitlements. However a break of more than 12 months does. 
It is Australian Public Service practice that only in special circumstances will a person on engagement (or on any subsequent re-engagement) commence on other than the minimum of the salary range. 
In February 1975 the Government when approving the provision of additional assistance for Senators and Members set as an upper limit for the provision of funds the base salary payable to an electorate secretary. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) I do not propose to comment. 
Within the limits imposed by legislation and by the Government, the Public Service Board determines the salary and conditions of service of staff of Members and Senators. 
The staff should adopt the normal procedure of approaching the Public Service Board either directly or through my Department. 
Yes. 
5 ) I do not propose to comment. 
No. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The conditions of service of Australian Public Servants are included in the Public Service Act, regulations and determinations made under that Act, the Board's General Orders relating to the Public Service Act and Regulations, arbitration determinations, awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and in the various Acts dealing with specific conditions such as compensation and superannuation. 
The conditions of service other than salary, which apply to electorate secretaries, electorate assistants and relief electorate secretaries are the same as for other temporary employees under the Public Service Act, except that they have been exempted from certain provisions concerning normal registration and selection requirements and the one year limitation on the term of employment of temporary staff. 
(a) Funds have not been provided by the Government for the payment of overtime to electorate secretaries and electorate assistants as they are provided to staff electorate offices during business hours only. Similarly, overtime has not been paid to relief electorate secretaries. 
It has not been the practice in the past to pay travelling allowance to electorate staff. However, the AttorneyGeneral's Department has recently expressed the opinion that a member of electorate staff who is travelling at the direction of a member pursuant to Clause 2.8 of Remuneration Tribunal Determination No. 1976/6 is entitled to payment of travelling allowance in accordance with Public Service Regulations. In view of this opinion it is proposed to meet claims for travel undertaken subsequent to the date of the Determination. 
Relief electorate secretaries receive normal travelling allowance when relief duty requires their absence from their headquarters. 
Electorate assistants to Ministers are entitled to the payment of travelling allowance when required by the Minister to travel between the electorate office and Canberra. There is no entitlement to overtime payments. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Question No. 149 has now been answered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, for the period from 11 November 1975 to 3 1 May 1977, is as follows: 
and (2) National Committee: Eleven meetings, all held in Melbourne, on the following dates- 18.12.1975; 2.2.1976; 3.3.1976; 5.4.1976; 12.5.1976; 10.12.1976; 24. 1 . 1 977; 9.2. 1 977; 10.3. 1 977; 2.5. 1 977 and 30.5. 1 977. 
New South Wales Committee: Eleven meetings, all held in Sydney, on the following dates-3.12.1975; 28.1.1976; 24.2.1976; 14.4.1976; 26.5.1976; 24.6.1976; 13.12.1976; 18.2. 1977; 1.3. 1977; 4.4.1977 and 2.5. 1977. 
Victorian Committees: Thirteen meetings held in Melbourne, on the following dates- 15. 12. 1975; 2.2.1976; 22.3.1976; 12.4.1976; 3.5.1976; 29.6.1976; 13.12.1976; 20.12.1976; 2.2.1977; 1.3.1977; 29.3.1977; 15.4.1977 and 18.5.1977; plus one meeting held in Wangaratta on 24.5.1976. 
Queensland Committee: Eleven meetings, held in Brisbane, on the following dates- 14.1 1.1975; 5.12.1975; 29.1.1976; 5.3.1976; 15.4.1976; 21.5.1976; 25.6.1976; 16.12.1976; 28.1.1977; 11.3.1977 and 20.5.1977; plus one meeting held in Townsville on 22.4. 1 977. 
South Australian Committee: Ten meetings, all held in Adelaide, on the following dates- 14.1 1.1975; 22.12.1975; 16.2.1976; 8.4.1976; 24.5.1976; 28.6.1976; 13.12.1976; 14.2.1977; 14.3.1977 and 18.4.1977. 
Western Australian Committee: Twelve meetings, all held in Perth, on the following dates-10.12.1975; 9.2.1976; 22.3.1976; 9.4.1976; 31.5.1976; 21.6.1976; 2.12.1976; 1 3. 1 2. 1 976; 7.2. 1 977; 1 4.3. 1 977; 27.4. 1 977 and 30.5. 1977. 
Tasmanian Committee: Seven meetings, held in Hobart, on the following dates- 17.12.1975; 9.4.1976; 12.5.1976; 8.12.1976; 2.2.1977; 9.3.1977 and 1 1.5.1977; plus one meeting held in Launceston on 20.4. 1 977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However the continuation of the Scheme into 1977-78 was reviewed by the Government in the context of its pre-Budget deliberations, and it has been agreed to continue the Scheme pending a further review to be completed by 3 1 December 1977. 
Nil. 
No, but applications have been received at a consistent rate since the Scheme 's inception. 
No. 
5 ) At the end of April 1 977 there were 45 1 young people registered as unemployed at the Northcote Office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. This does cause a problem of dimensions serious enough to warrant a Community Youth Support Scheme program. 
Yes. 
Overseas Travel by Public Servants (Question No. 1021) 
I have information in broad categories as to the disputes currently going on in Victoria, although I do not claim that the information is necessarily comprehensive or exact in all details. To the best of my knowledge currently in Victoria one dispute affects the shipping industry, 11 involve the building and construction industry, two involve engineering and metals, one the food, drink and tobacco industries and five are taking place in other industries. Again, I do not have comprehensive information as to the precise number of people involved in these strikes. I have no doubt that it is very significant. For example, one dispute involves 2200 members of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria and another dispute affects 530 people involved in the construction of the Westgate Bridge. This sort of industrial action is being pursued by a small minority whose motto, apparently, is: 'Might is right'. These people are heedless of the interests of their fellow unionists, those who are looking for work and of the community generally. They seem hell bent on destroying any system of orderly wage fixation in this country and of destroying prospects for creating new job opportunities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on the percentage of married women among employed persons in the workforce is available, in respect of 10 of the 24 OECD countries (including Australia), from the OECD publication Labour Force Statistics, 1963-1974 (Paris, 1976), and is presented below. It can be seen that most of the countries for which information is available have a higher proportion of married women among their employed workforce than does Australia. 
Statistics of employed civilians include the armed forces. 
It should be noted that because of differences between these OECD countries in the matter of general concepts, classifications, and the methods used to obtain labour force statistics and employment data, the comparisons presented here should be treated with caution and should be regarded as merely approximate. Details of these differences can be obtained from the OECD publication referred to above. 
Indexation of Medibank Contribution: Effect on Wage Rates (Question No. 96) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates and in the majority of cases parts of several Employment Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within their boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number of characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
With this caveat in mind, as stated in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 219 of 9 March, 1977, 1 am prepared to provide statistics of the numbers, age and sex of persons registered as unemployed in Offices of the CES contained in the respective electorates as requested by the honourable member but, as statistics of occupational categories for which unemployed persons are registered are not normally published by CES Office areas, I do not consider that the considerable clerical effort involved in their extraction would be justified for part (3) of the honourable member's question. 
The following are the answers, in terms of CES Office areas, to pans (1) and (2) of the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) Pans of three Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Chifley as presently constituted, viz: Mt Drum, Blacktown and Penrith. The respective proportions of the three Employment Office areas involved are 40 per cent of Mt Druitt, 40 per cent of Blacktown and 10 per cent of Penrith. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates and in the majority of cases parts of several Employment Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some 
Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within their boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
With this caveat in mind, as stated in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 219 of 9 March 1977, 1 am prepared to provide statistics of the numbers, age and sex of persons registered as unemployed in Offices of the CES contained in the respective electorates as requested by the honourable member but, as statistics of occupational categories for which unemployed persons are registered are not normally published by CES Office areas I do not consider that the considerable clerical effort involved in their extraction, would be justified for pan (3) of the honourable member's question. 
The following are the answers, in terms of CES Office areas to pans (1) and (2) of the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) Parts of three Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Chifley as presently constituted, viz: Mt Druitt, Blacktown and Penrith. The respective proportions of the three Employment Office areas involved are 40 per cent of Mt Druitt, 40 per cent of Blacktown and 10 per cent of Penrith. .(b) Parts of five Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Macarthur as presently constituted, viz: Campbelltown, Warilla, Nowra, Goulburn and Wollongong. The respective proportions of the five Employment Office areas involved are 95 per cent of Campbelltown, 75 per cent of Warilla, 70 per cent of Nowra, 25 per cent of Goulburn and 20 per cent of Wollongong. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Information in the form sought by the honourable member is not centrally recorded; however, information in relation to Australian Public Service employment which is readily available is shown in the following tables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no suitable source available from which to obtain comparable information on average wage rates, in money units, for the countries and time period specified. 
The publication "Main Economic Indicators", produced by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, contains indices of average earnings which enable a limited comparison to be made of the rate of increase of earnings in each country with the exception of Australia. The available indices for the countries other than Australia measure average earnings of adult and junior males and females and part-time workers whereas the two series for Australia contained in the publication are for average minimum hourly wage rates in manufacturing for males and females separately. The male rates only have been included in Table 1. For each country the index of real earnings was calculated by dividing the index of earnings by each country's consumer price index (all items). The statistical difficulties of making comparisons between earnings in various places, due mainly to differences in coverage and compilation; require that any interpretation of the figures in the table be made with caution. 
As original data expressed in domestic currencies is not readily available, it has not been possible to perform the necessary calculations. 
Table 2 provides a comparison of earnings for Japan, United States of America, United Kingdom, Germany and Australia for 1975. The earnings are expressed in the relevant domestic currencies and are the latest available. Table 3 provides a comparison of those rates converted into Australian dollars. The comments relating to each of these statistics reveal that comparisons are extremely difficult. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)-(a) The Federal electorates in which Community Youth Support Scheme projects have been initiated as at 30 April 1 977, together with the names of the relevant Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service are listed below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1-4) Paragraph 133 ( 1) (db) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act came into operation on 8 July 1976. Subsection 133 (4C) allows an organisation a period of 12 months after that date within which to bring its rules into conformity with the requirements of that paragraph. 
The power conferred upon the Industrial Registrar by subsection 133 (4D) is not available to him until the expiration of the period allowed by sub-section 133 (4C). 
The rules of a number of organisations already prescribe terms of office which do not exceed the period prescribed in paragraph 133 (1) (db). 
I am advised that the Industrial Registrar has convened meetings of representatives of registered organisations in Melbourne and Sydney to discuss, among other things, the subject of paragraph 133 (1) (db), and that appropriate alterations to the rules of some organisations have already been certified by the Industrial Registrar. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) The details of applications made to the Industrial Registrar pursuant to sub-section 133aa (3) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as at 6 June 1 977, are as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The contract represents a continuance of arrangements operating in respect of the Villawood Repository since March 1973. 
Continuous watching during the silent hours including gate security and area patrols. Area patrols on weekends and holidays. 
3 ) According to the records held by the New South Wales Companies Office, the Directors of the company are Anthony William George and Nicola Ann George. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates and in the majority of cases parts of several CES Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within their boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each one of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
I ) and (3) Bearing in mind the above caveat, it should also be noted that, as the highest number of persons registered as unemployed will not necessarily occur in the same month for each of the CES Offices included in a parliamentary electorate, it is not always feasible to deduce the particular end-month reporting date when unemployment would have been highest in the electorate in any given year. 
Parts of three Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Capricornia as presently constituted, viz. Rockhampton, Gladstone and Bundaberg. The respective proportions of the three Employment Office areas involved are 10 per cent of Rockhampton, 60 per cent of Gladstone and 20 per cent of Bundaberg. 
Subject to the relevant qualifications the highest numbers of persons registered as unemployed in each of the above Offices showing (a) single and (b) married women and (c) total persons and the end-month in which this highest registration occurred for each of the years requested in part ( 1 ) of the honourable member's question were as follows: 
and (3) Subject also to the relevant qualifications, the numbers of persons registered as unemployed in each of the above Offices showing (a) single and (b) married women and (c) total persons at end-January and (d) end-February 1977 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At end-April 1977 the number of persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) in New South Wales, including the Australian Capital Territory, was 139,911 or 6.1 per cent of the estimated labour force. This compared with rates of 4.3 per cent in Victoria, 5.7 per cent in Queensland, 4.4 per cent in South Australia, 4.3 per cent in Western Australia, 4.6 per cent in Tasmania and 8.8 per cent in the Northern Territory. The rate for Australia as a whole was 5.2 per cent 
and (3) The following tables show the proportional distribution of persons registered as unemployed in New South Wales (including the A.C.T.) compared with the rest of Australia by sex, age group and principal occupational category as at end-February 1977. (Extraction of these figures commenced before later data became available, however the proportional distribution of registrants does not change markedly over a period of two months and, as the extraction was most time-consuming, I did not consider it necessary to have the exercise repeated when the end-April figures became available.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Government does not have the information sought. 
As at 30 June 1976, 40032 Commonwealth Public Service Act (permanent and temporary) positions were located in the ACT. Records, enabling comparable figures for earlier dates, were not maintained prior to 30 June 1959 when there were 6429 Public Service Act positions (permanent and temporary) in the A.C.T. 
Figures relating to full-time staff (permanent, temporary and exempt) employed in the A.C.T. under the Public Service Act are available, however, and these are: 30 June 1976......... 34 294 30 June 1956......... 7 330 4715 Public Service Act positions have been transferred into the A.C.T. since 1957, as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of Parliamentary electorates and in the majority of cases parts of several Employment Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within their boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
With this caveat in mind, as stated in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 219 of 9 March 1977, 1 am prepared to provide statistics of the numbers, age and sex of persons registered as unemployed in Offices of the CES contained in the respective electorates as requested by the honourable member but, as statistics of occupational categories for which unemployed persons are registered are not normally published by CES Office areas I do not consider that the considerable clerical effort involved in their extraction, would be j justified for part ( 3 ) of the honourable member 's question. 
The following are the answers, in terms of CES Office areas to parts (I) and (2) of the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) Parts of three Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Chifley as presently constituted, viz: Mt Druitt, Blacktown and Penrith. The respective proportions of the three Employment Office areas involved are 40 per cent of Mt Druitt, 40 per cent of Blacktown and 10 per cent of Penrith. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The details of correspondence between the Prime Minister and a Premier are normally regarded as confidential and for this reason I do not intend to provide details. 
The representations of the Insurance Council of Australia have been noted by the Government. However, the financing and co-ordination of fire brigades traditionally and constitutionally have rested with the States. In line with the Government's Federalism Policy, the view has been taken that these matters should continue to be State responsibilities. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board has completed its investigations into the proposal to standardise fire hose couplings throughout Australia and is finalising its submission to the Government. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The statistics set out in the table below have been compiled on the basis of the number of respondent employers against whom prosecutions under Section 1 1 9 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were approved within my Department in the period 1 January 1973 to 31 December 1976. They do not relate to the number of breaches alleged to have been committed by those respondents. 
The prosecutions have been tallied according to the month in which the proceedings were brought to finality or not proceeded with for a variety of reasons, including where l egal advice was received from  Deputy  Crown Solicitors as to evidentiary deficiencies or where leave was granted by the Courts for the matters in question to be withdrawn. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates. In the majority of cases parts of several Employment Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within their boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
With this caveat in mind, as stated in my answer to the honourable member for Werriwa 's question No. 219 of 9 March, 1977, I am prepared to provide statistics of the numbers, age and sex of persons registered as unemployed in Offices of the CES contained in the respective electorates as requested by the honourable member. 
The following are the answers, in terms of CES Office areas, to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Parts of two Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Hughes as presently constituted, viz: Caringbah and Wollongong. The respective proportions of the two Employment Office areas involved are 50 per cent of Caringbah and 40 per cent of Wollongong. 
The Federal Electoral Division of Cook as presently constituted is entirely contained within the Employment Office area of Caringbah and constitutes approximately 50 per cent of the area of that Employment Office. Details for Caringbah Employment Office are shown above. 
Parts of two Employment Office areas fall within the Federal Electoral Division of Cunningham as presently constituted, viz: Wollongong and Warilla. The respective proportions of the two Employment Office areas involved are 60 per cent of Wollongong, details of which are shown above, and 30 per cent of Warilla, for which details are: 
The percentage of persons who are (a) males and (b) females (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over for each of the Employment Office areas comprising the relevant Electoral Divisions at end-February 1976 and endFebruary 1 977 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries to these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates. In the majority of cases parts of several Employment Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within then- boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
With this caveat in mind, as stated in my answer to the honourable member for Werriwa "s question No. 219 of 9 March 1977, I am prepared to provide statistics of the numbers, age and sex of persons registered as unemployed in Offices of the CES contained in the respective electorates as requested by the honourable member but, as statistics of occupational categories for which unemployed persons are registered are not normally published by CES Office areas, I do not consider that the considerable clerical effort involved in their extraction would be justified for part (3) of the honourable member's question. 
The following are the answers, in terms of CES Office areas to parts (1) and (2) of the honourable member's question: 
Pans of two Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Hughes as presently constituted, viz: Caringbah and Wollongong. The respective proportions of the two Employment Office areas involved are 50 per cent of Caringbah and 40 per cent of Wollongong. 
The Federal Electoral Division of Cook as presently constituted is entirely contained within the Employment Office area of Caringbah and constitutes approximately 50 per cent of the area of that Employment Office. Details for Caringbah Employment Office are shown above. 
Pans of two Employment Office areas fall within the Federal Electoral Division of Cunningham as presently constituted, viz: Wollongong and Warilla. The respective proportions of the two Employment Office areas involved are 60 per cent of Wollongong, details of which are shown above, and 30 per cent of Warilla, for which details are: 
The percentage of persons who were (a) males and (b) females (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over for each of the Employment Office areas comprising the relevant Electoral Divisions at end-January 1976 and end-January 1 977 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. It is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates. In the majority of cases parts of several Employment Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within their boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of those Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to these total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
With this caveat in mind, as stated in my answer to the honourable member for Werriwa 's question No. 219 of 9 March, 1977, I am prepared to provide statistics of the numbers, age and sex of persons registered as unemployed in Offices of the CES contained in the respective electorates as requested by the honourable member but, as statistics of occupational categories for which unemployed persons are registered are not normally published by CES Office areas I do not consider that the considerable clerical effort involved in their extraction would be justified for part (3) of the honourable member's question. 
The following are the answers, in terms of CES Office areas, to parts (1) and (2) of the honourable member's question: 
Pans of two Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal Electoral Division of Hughes as presently constituted, viz. Caringbah and Wollongong. The respective proportions of the two Employment Office areas involved are 50 per cent of Caringbah and 40 per cent of Wollongong. 
The Federal Electoral Division of Cook as presently constituted is entirely contained within the Employment Office area of Caringbah and constitutes approximately 50 per cent of the area of that Employment Office. Details for Caringbah Employment Office are shown above. 
Pans of two Employment Office areas fall within the Federal Electoral Division of Cunningham as presently constituted, viz. Wollongong and Warilla. The respective proportions of the two Employment Office areas involved are 60 per cent of Wollongong, details of which are shown above, and 30 per cent of Warilla, for which details are: 
The percentage of persons who were (a) males and ( b) females (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over for each of the Employment Office areas comprising the relevant Electoral Divisions at 31 December 1975 and 3 1 December 1976 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5 ) and ( 7 ) The Public Service Board has provided the consolidated information in the following tables for the calendar years 1973 to 1976 inclusive. The groupings used for the Third and Fourth Division statistics were chosen as being representative of levels of responsibility within those Divisions. 
Records detailing the medical reasons for invalidity retirement are not centrally kept. To obtain this information would require considerable effort and man-hours, which I am not prepared to authorise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A total of 61 food services are operated primarily for the benefit of Commonwealth employees. 
The services are listed below, 2 being managed by independent contractors and the remaining 59 by Commonwealth departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Queanbeyan Office of the Commonwealth Employment Service is at present a branch of the Canberra Office and the activities of the two are combined in published statistics. Queanbeyan statistics will be reported separately if a separate office of the Commonwealth Employment Service is opened in Queanbeyan. 
The Australian Capital Territory labour market is regarded as part of an area of New South Wales. I have no intention of publishing separate statistics for the Australian Capital Territory at the present time. 
Statistics of adults and juniors registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service are currently published on a State basis in the Department's Monthly Review of the Employment Situation. 
The Department of Social Security hopes to be able to resume the extraction of these area statistics in the near future. The information ceased to be extracted with the introduction of a system of bulk mailing of cheques. 
Commonwealth Employment Service: Reports on Refusal of Employment Offers (Question No. 868) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of persons registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas requested were as follows: 
The percentages of persons (a) males and (b) females (i) under 21 years of age and (ii) 21 years of age and over were as follows: 
The principal work categories for which unemployed persons were registered were as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The latest details available to me are those provided in the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries, 'Public Libraries in Australia'. I particularly refer the honourable member to Appendix E at pages 137-139 and to Table 5. 1 at page 64 of the Report. 
2 ) See Appendix E referred to in (1 ) above. 
The present position is as given by me in a Statement to the Senate, on 3 May 1977 (Senate  Hansard,  page 1072). 
and (5) Decisions on these questions will be taken in association with decisions on the Government's overall policies for this area. 
It is not accepted practice to answer questions on future policy. 
, (8) and (9) See Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries, 'Public Libraries in Australia', Appendix D, 'Legislation relating to Public Libraries' pages 134-136 and Appendix E, pages 137-139. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
10 500. 
2500. 
Parliamentarians, Press Gallery, Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, Commissioners, Witnesses to the Inquiry, Persons and Organisations assisting the Commission, State Government, Media and Principal Public Libraries in the States and Territories. 
From 28 October 1976. 
Sale price $4.50 (book comprises 216 pages). Copies were readily available in all AGPS bookshops. 
Print run for the second Fox Report was 12 000 copies. 
3550. 
Same as (3) above 
From 27 May 1977. 
From 25 May 1977. 
The sale price for the second Fox Report is $10.95 (book comprises 428 pages). A companion book 'Alligator Rivers Region Report' is concurrently available at $4.10, and a 10 per cent discount is offered if both reports are purchased together. The media reports referred to the price for both publications. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. Queensland first applied for a special grant for the year 1971-72. Prior to 1974-75, however, the Commission did not have access to data which would have allowed it to take losses incurred by the Brisbane City Council's transport undertaking into account in assessing Queensland 's needs for metropolitan transport. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
) No. The amount of Queensland 's assessed needs met from other Commonwealth grants was $113.6 million in respect of the year 1 974-75. This amount was not affected by the Commission's treatment of the losses incurred by the Brisbane City Council 's transport undertaking. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) $7,085,000. The special grant paid to Queensland for the year 1 974-75 was $24 million. The amount of this special grant would have been $16,915,000 had the losses on the Brisbane City Council 's transport undertaking for that year not been taken into account. It should be noted, however, that the Commission still assessed negative needs of 57,596,000 in respect of Queensland's metropolitan road transport for the year 1974-75. 
2 ) See answer to Question 919(2). 
Music Broadcasting Society of Queensland: FM Licence  (Question No. 929) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) Yes. The frequency of the examination is: 
Up to 45 years of age- every 5 years 
45-55 years of age- every 4 years 
Over 55 years of age- every 2 years. 
The examinations include tests on colour vision, visual acuity, hearing, blood pressure, respiration, heart pulsations and other physical conditions. 
) Yes. Commonwealth car drivers are subject to security checking upon commencement of employment. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) Yes. Discussions are held on an informal basis with individual drivers or formally with union representatives. 
) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
My Department consults with unions and vehicle manufacturers and at times with automobile organisations regarding suitablity and performance of vehicles, including drivers' views on these matters. 
Inclusions in New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement  (Question No. 982) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of school-leaver, full-time placements confirmed by the Commonwealth Employment Service in the offices concerned from end-November 1976 until end-May 1977 were (a) Newcastle, 304, (b) Charlestown, 125, (c) Maitland, 91 and (d) Cessnock, 68. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff  (Question No. 1004) 
Yes, I am aware of the situation in the building industry in Melbourne. It goes back to April this year when the building industry unions made claims for a $30 a week wage increase, a 35-hour week and some other concessions. Various building unions have pursued these claims through strike action since, I think, June. As a result the Commissioner responsible for this industry refused to vary the builders labourers award to include the recent wage indexation increase unless the union concerned gave an assurance to the Industrial Registrar that it would cease its strike action and pursue its claims through the proper processes which are available to it; that is through conciliation and arbitration. Since then, regrettably, if anything there has been an intensification of the strike action. Notification by the employers has been made to the Commission. The present situation is that there are widespread stand-downs in the industry and a loss of jobs. As the honourable gentleman has pointed out, there is a lack of productivity leading to greatly increased costs in the industry. The union leaders responsible for this situation should be condemned for directly endangering their members' best interests and, as well, imperilling the jobs of those who are associated with firms and industries which are suppliers to the building industry. The only consequence of the action the honourable member has outlined is a direct loss of jobs in the industry concerned and, in due course, a reduction of job opportunities in associated industries. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957, I present the annual reports of the Commonwealth Police Commissioner for the years ended June 1 976 and June 1 977. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report on the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the year ended 3 1 December 1 976. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973, I present the Remuneration Tribunal Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Review 1977, of 6 June 1977, which includes determination number 1977/5. 
Pursuant to sections 6 and 7 of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973, 1 present the Remuneration Tribunal 1977 Review, of 20 June 1977, which includes two reports (numbers 1977/1 and 1977/2) and five determinations (numbers 1977/6W 1977/10). 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 I present Remuneration Tribunal determination number 1977/4, which predates the 1977 review, and remuneration Tribunal determination number 1977/11, which postdates the 1977 review. These determinations are in relation to the holders of certain public offices. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Acting Prime Minister to question No. 1003 on 2 June 1977 (Hansard page 253 1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question, for the period from 30 September1 975 to31 July1977, is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information which is centrally recorded and maintained in relation to staff employed by Departments under the Public Service Act is set out below. 
) Total Staff employed under the Public Service Act: 1970-77 
Comparisons between these figures must take into account transfers of staff into and out of Public Service Act coverage during the period. The most significant change reflectedin the above table was the transfer of 121 598 former Public Service Act staff to employment under the Australian Postal Commission Act and Australian Telecommunications Act on 1 July 1975. 
At 31 December1976 there were153 708 full-time staff and 2520 part-time staff employed under the Public Service Act. 
The approved staffing level varies from time to time, reflecting developments in the responsibilities and workload of the Public Service as a whole. At 30 June1977 the approved level of Public Service Act staff was155015. 
Full-time Public Service Act staff by department: 1975-76- 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second dme. 
The purpose of the Bill I am introducing to the House today is to enable Commonwealth Government employing authorities, in the public interest to suspend from duty, or in appropriate circumstances dismiss, government employees who take industrial action which disrupts the provisions of services to the Australian community; and stand down, without pay, government employees who cannot be usefully employed as a result of industrial action taken by fellow government employees or by workers in private industry, or who are engaged on functions the performance of which is seriously disrupted. The feature that distinguishes government employees is their responsibility for providing the wide range of services essential to the well-being of a modern day community. If government employees do not fulfil, or are not able because of the actions of others to fulfil, these responsibilities the effect reaches into the very fabric of our society. 
I do not need to remind honourable members that the Australian community has been subjected to great inconvenience and hardship through the industrial actions of some government employees and their trade unions. It has been deprived of services to which it is entitled. One need only point to the current disruption to community mail services. The Government is not prepared to tolerate this type of situation. To do so would be to shirk its clear duty to protect the public interest. Finally, let me emphasise that it would be the Government's hope that it will not be necessary to use this legislation and it is the Government's intention that this Bill will be passed by the Parliament but will not be proclaimed to operate unless circumstances so dictate. Certainly it recognises that the very great majority of government employees and their unions have acted, and do act, responsibly. Indeed the legislation would not have been necessary but for the actions of a minority. I commend  the-Bill  to the House. 
The Minister for  Adminstrative  Service has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is not the practice of Commonwealth Police to disclose the nature and purpose of communications they have with members of the public or solictiors acting for clients on official matters. To do so would impair confidence in the Commonwealth Police Force. 
Teresa was subject to normal Customs entry procedures administered by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been advised by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Public Service Board that: 
1 ) At 3 1 May 1 977 there were 394 935 Federal Government employees. This figure does not include the 70 400 members ofthe Defence Force. 
157 626 employees, or 39.91 per cent, came under the ambit of the Public Service Act. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (6) Refer to the information provided by the Acting Prime Minister in answer to House of Representatives question No. 1003 which appears on page 253 1 of the House of Representatives Weekly  Hansard  i  June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No separate statistics are maintained for males and females who are assisted under the Relocation Assistance Scheme. However, the total number of persons assisted in New South Wales under the scheme from 1.10.76 to 30.6.77 was 1 12 with the break up according to each Commonwealth Employment Service district being a s follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the many and varied changes involving women in employment in Australia in recent times, and the consequential rapid outdaring of draft material prepared for inclusion in the proposed 'Handbook For Women Workers', my Department has found it necessary to develop a revised approach to that which was originally envisaged when I advised the honourable member on 8 September 1976 that it was in the course of preparation  (Hansard  page 789). 
It is, therefore, not possible for me, at this stage, to indicate when this Handbook will be published. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Data on the civilian labour force, aged 1 S years and over, are available from the quarterly labour force survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). Results are published in the quarterly bulletin  The Labour Force,  Reference No. 6.20. The following information is derived from data in the latest bulletin relating to the survey conducted in February 1977. Since the estimates are based on a sample they may differ from those that would have been obtained from a complete census using the same questionnaire and procedures. 
Estimated total civilian labour- 6,208,000 persons. 
Percentage of labour force by birthplace and period of arrivalBorn in Australia- 73.7 Born outside Australia- 26.3 
Arrived before 1955-6.6 
Arrived 1955 to 1 96 1 -5.7 
Arrived 1962 to 1968-6.6 
Arrived 1969 to 1975-6.7 
Arrived January 1976 to February 1977-0.7 
Data on persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service is not classified by birth-place. However, data on unemployment are available from the quarterly labour force survey conducted by the ABS. The following information is derived from data in the bulletin  The Labour Force,  February 1977. Once again the estimates are based on a sample and they may differ from those that would have been obtained from a complete census using the same questionnaires and procedures. 
Estimated total persons unemployed 334,800. 
Percentage of unemployed persons by birthplace and period of arrivalBorn in Australia- 73.5 
Born outside Australia- 26.5 Arrived before 1955-3.9 Arrived 1955 to 1961-4.3 Arrived 1962 to 1968-7.3 Arrived 1969 to 1975-8.6 Arrived January 1976 to February 1977-2.4 
and (4) As pan of his review of the CES,  Mr J.  Norgard recommended by way of an interim report to me on 7.2.77 that the Service be provided with inter alia adequate telephone equipment. Following the Government 's decision to implement in principle  Mr Norgard  's interim recommendations, my Department is proceeding, as funds become available, with the installation of modern telephone equipment including, where appropriate, dual handsets to facilitate 3-way conversations. At 31.5.77 new dual handset equipment had been installed in 3 offices. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See my answer to parts (5) and (4) respectively of question No. 982 (Senate  Hansard,  16 August 1977, pages 68-69). 
I am aware of the dispute the honourable gentleman mentions which, as he says, is a demarcation dispute between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation. Officers of my Department have been in regular contact with the Australian National Line on this question. There is little doubt that, if the bans remain in force, Tasmanian trade will be severely restricted. I understand that already cargoes have been held up. It is worth noting that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has policy in two relevant areas of this dispute. Firstly, it accepts that it has a responsibility in trying to resolve within the union movement demarcation disputes. Secondly, its policy is that in relation to trade with Tasmania the union movement should try to see that disputes are settled with the minimum possible disruption. Undoubtedly there is a strong and heavy onus on the two unions concerned and on the ACTU to try to resolve this dispute as quickly as possible. I am aware that the dispute has been before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on a number of occasions. I understand that further hearings are planned for the next day or two. However, in view of the honourable member's question I will get in touch with the ACTU to remind it of its policy in relation to demarcation disputes and Tasmania and to point out that, as I understand it, the actions of about eight men are threatening the trade of a whole State and are putting at risk the jobs of hundreds of their fellow unionists. In these circumstances I believe there is a very heavy responsibility on the ACTU to resolve this question as soon as possible. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Trade Union Training Authority Act 1975, I present the first annual report of the Trade Union Training Authority 1975-76. 
-Part of the answer to the questions of the Leader of the Opposition is to be found in his last question. I have delayed answering until, in fact, the meeting of the Ministers for Labour was held. The meetings are held, as the honourable gentleman would know, only twice a year normally, and last weekend the meeting for this time of the year was held in Perth. I think the issue was raised again but I shall have to check this- that the unanimous opinion of the State Ministers was that they saw no reason to alter the existing situation. The amendments which the honourable gentleman's Government introduced to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act- I think I have said this before in the House- provide a framework within which the States can operate if they choose to use them. The experience would not indicate that the States are prepared to move in this area. 
-The figures that the honourable gentleman quoted for those assisted under the special youth employment training program and those in training at the end of July, as I remember them, are substantially correct. One of the inhibiting factors in not getting more young people into the scheme is the lack of suitable vacancies. As the honourable gentleman would know, our training schemes are directed to those areas of skills which are directly in demand in the sense that employers have vacancies registered for people with those skills and are prepared to train them. As a result of the announcement made in the Treasurer's Budget Speech, young people aged 20 to 24 years will now be eligible for the special youth employment training program in addition to the 15 to 19 years old group which has been benefiting for the last year or so. 
Yes there is. I am glad that the honourable member for Gellibrand made that comment. I was not going to mention specifically all the inaccuracies of the honourable member's remarks which appeared in the Press recently in contrast with the utterances of his colleague who just asked the question and who had the right figures. The honourable member for Gellibrand had the wrong figures. As the Treasurer made quite clear in his Budget Speech, whilst there is an allocation in the estimates for youth training and the National Employment and Training program as a whole the Government will not be constrained by that amount of finance if it is found that there are young people for whom vacancies are available and who can meet the labour market criteria laid down for the NEAT scheme. Already the scheme has been expanded and the announcement has been made that for those meeting the labour market criteria finance will not be a constraining factor. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Norfolk Island Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-The decision to discontinue the publication of seasonally adjusted figures at the same time as the release of the monthly employment figures was the unanimous decision reached at the conference of Ministers of Labour from all States. That included, of course, three Ministers belonging to the honourable gentleman's party. The Australian Bureau of Statistics has what it regards as a series under trial for seasonal adjustment excluding, as I understand it, school leavers. This matter was raised on at least one subsequent occasion at a conference of Labour Ministers. The unanimous decision again was not to change the stand which had been taken on the earlier occasion. 
I am happy to inform the House and the honourable member of the progress that has been made to date in consideration of the Norgard report. The report makes more than 100 recommendations and provides the basis for the development of the Commonwealth Employment Service over the next decade. Therefore it will take some time before some of the recommendations are implemented. However, action is already in train on several fronts, and I would like to mention a couple of them to the House. Norgard identified as a particular weakness of the CES the absence of an organisation within the Department to enable effective co-ordination and management of its operations. As was recommended by  Mr Norgard,  arrangements have now been made for a  Deputy  Secretary in my Department to assume direct control of the CES in both its operations and management. In addition a small organisation has been established in the Department which will act as the focal point for consideration of the other recommendations, for co-ordinating matters arising from them, and for maintaining the momentum which has been attained so far. 
Much of the action will be required at the grass roots level. Each region has put together a team from regional management and CES officers themselves to identify the Norgard recommendations which can be implemented quickly and what resources are needed to implement them. They are now being reviewed with the object of establishing proper priorities. Finally, the key issues of the Norgard report will be put before the National Labour Consultative Council at its special meeting tomorrow along with other items, including industrial legislation. Following the consideration by the National Labour Consultative Council of the Norgard report, I will be making a submission to Cabinet. I hope to be in a position to make a statement to the Parliament subsequent to that during this session. 
-I am aware of the situation arising in the Kalgoorlie-Kambalda region as a result of the fall in nickel prices. If the situation outlined by the honourable member is correctthat is, if no attempt has been made to advise people who have to shift from the area of their entitlements- I shall see that it is redressed. Certainly, I am aware that the Commonwealth Employment Service in the area has been doing everything it possibly can to find alternative employment for the men retrenched and to offer retraining for those who cannot be re-employed with their existing skills. The Relocation Assistance Scheme introduced by this Government is designed to cope with precisely the sort of situation which the honourable member has outlined. I shall not go into details of the scheme. They are available. But that information will certainly be made available to those who meet the criteria to be eligible for assistance under the scheme. The Relocation Assistance Scheme has enabled some 400 families to be assisted to relocate to new areas where permanent employment is available to them. It has been a major help in such circumstances. It is certainly the Government's intention to ensure that it is of equal assistance to those who meet the criteria in the Kalgoorlie-Kambalda area. 
-Victoria is the only State which has approved agricultural apprenticeships. I understand that between October 1974 when they were first instituted and June 1976 some 442 people entered agricultural apprenticeships. CRAFT subsidies are payable to employers of agricultural apprentices who are released for essential technical training, in exactly the same way and under the same conditions as employers of other apprentices. As to the success of these apprenticeships, I understand that the Victorian Government and the people concerned have been extremely pleased with the results which have been achieved so far. Decisions as to whether this scheme can be extended, of course, remain with the individual States concerned. They have to make that judgment for themselves. But under the responsibility of the Australian Apprenticeship Advisory Committee, which is chaired by a member of my Department, the other States have been made aware of the Victorian scheme. I hope that the other States, having examined the success which has attended the agricultural apprenticeship scheme in Victoria, will give serious consideration to extending Victoria 's initiative to their States. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to clarify an answer which I gave to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  yesterday. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Fire Board 1976-77. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Territory of Christmas Island for the year ended 3 1 December 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3). 
Norfolk Island 
Details of the declarations made for Norfolk Island in respect of ILO Conventions ratified by Australia are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The meat inspectors course which is currently being conducted in Melbourne was established under the NEAT system following discussions between my Department, the Department of Primary Industry and the Victorian Department of Agriculture. The impetus for these discussions stemmed from a recognition within the Departments concerned that there was a growing shortage of meat inspectors in Victoria which could approach 100 by the end of 1977. Applicants for the course were interviewed by a selection panel which comprised one Veterinary Officer from each of the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry and the Victorian Department of Agriculture, and a representative from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Preference in selection was given to the unemployed, although some employed people were selected where their employment was considered insecure or unsuitable e.g. they were in only part-time positions or had to travel excessive distances to work. 
No. Details of the course were circulated to all offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Victoria on 4.4.1977. This meant that country people had the same opportunity to apply as people living in Melbourne. Most of the applicants were in fact registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service although some applications came from people working in meat works who were informed about the course by meat inspectors with whom they were working. All applicants who were not already registered were required to register with the CES. As there were 221 applicants for approximately 100 positions, it was felt to be unnecessary to advertise it more widely, although it was given some press publicity. 
Of the 89 successful applicants 47 were from the metropolitan area and 42 from the country. 
As two thirds of the registered unemployed are in the metropolitan area and one third in the country, the ratio of successful applicants to unemployed was higher for country areas than for the metropolitan area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The  President  of the Commission brought this suggestion to my notice in September 1 976. It was put on the agenda for the Conference of Ministers of Labour at its special meeting in November 1976 and was further considered at meetings of the Conference in February and September 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) I am advised that the decision that an Aboriginal was not required to leave a settlement or mission in order to qualify for unemployment benefit was taken by the then Government in May 1973. 
The number of Aboriginals who received unemployment benefit as a result of this decision is not known because separate statistics for Aboriginals in receipt of unemployment benefit were not recorded. 
to (5) The draft circular to which reference is made was never issued. 
to (10), (13) and (14) Aboriginal employment has received a great deal of consideration by relevant Ministers and their departments. This has involved, with others, the various reports to which the honourable member has referred. The outcome is the National Employment Strategy for Aboriginals, the details of which were announced by my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, on 26 May 1977. 
1 1 ) and ( 12) See (3)-(5) above. 
The monthly totals of Aboriginals registered with the CES as unemployed since December 1975, when the total was 9,988 are as follows: 
Statutory Authorities Established since  1972  (Question No. 935) 
-The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
and (2) The names, qualifications, designations and salary ranges of research and administrative support staff, together with the departments and other bodies from which they were drawn, are detailed hereunder. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) The Committee presented its report to the Prime Minister on 25 August 1977. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth countries of citizens who seek enrolment is not information that is required of applicants under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The Australian Electoral Office is therefore unable to provide the statistics sought by the honourable member. However, the honourable member may recall that the Office does compile statistics for each electoral division for each month showing the number of electors added, electors removed and the number of alterations to the roll (change of name et cetera. ). 
I will answer this question rather than the Minister for Transport. The Government does intend to take action in relation to the responsibility of industrial organisations for financial reporting to their members as recommended by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. At present I have detailed proposals before, the National Labour Consultative Council for its views prior to bringing legislation into the Parliament. 
I have already answered a question on more or less the same lines as this question. As the Treasurer made quite clear in his Budget Speech, the allocation of funds for the National Employment and Training scheme of which the Special Youth Employment Training Program is a part was set, from memory, at $54m. However, should this prove inadequate as a result of the age limit under the Special Youth Employment Training Program being raised from 19 years to 24 years more money will be appropriated as needed. 
-From time to time allegations have been made that employers have sacked present members of their work force in order to take on somebody under the subsidised training programs, either the ordinary National Employment and Training scheme or the Special Youth Employment Training Program. We have taken sample surveys on this question to see whether the allegations were correct. We have found very little evidence to support them. But, if the honourable gentleman can provide me with specific evidence that employers have been abusing the scheme in this way, I shall see that action is taken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of persons registered as unemployed are compiled on the Friday nearest the end of each calendar month. The number of persons registered as unemployed in the Employment Office area requested at the collection dates nearest to those requested were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I presume that the honourable member is in fact referring to the Sixty-Third Session of the International Labour Conference held in June 1977. The Commonwealth Government delegates voted on the adoption of instruments as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) A total of 22 cases has now been considered by the Cabinet Sub-Committee. A further case is currently awaiting consideration. 
Of the 22 cases considered by the Committee 14 in all were decided in favour of the Australian supplier. Details of the contracts additional to those previously advised are as follows: 
The total estimated additional cost ot the Commonwealth to date as a result of the Australian supplier being favoured by the Committee is $1,362,000. As previously mentioned, when considering 'cost' however, it is also necessary to consider offsetting benefits such as employment that flows from the Australian supplier being favoured. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I explained in the answers to questions 220, 221 and 627 from the honourable member for Werriwa, statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) are normally compiled according to individual Employment Office areas. If is not usual for the boundaries of these to coincide with the boundaries of parliamentary electorates and in the majority of cases parts of several Employment Office areas would be contained in any one electorate. Conversely, however, some Employment Offices either contain a single electorate or parts of more than one electorate within their boundaries. 
It is possible to state roughly the proportion of each CES Office area contained in a particular electorate and to provide statistics relating to the total number of persons registered as unemployed in each of these Offices. Any attempt to apply the relative proportions to those total figures, however, in an effort to obtain an estimate of the number and characteristics of the unemployed registrants in that electorate, would be misleading as the distribution of population and unemployment within each CES Office area is unlikely to be uniform. 
1 ) With this caveat in mind, the answer to part ( 1 ) of the honourable member's question is that part of 5 Employment Office areas fall within the boundaries of the Federal electoral division of Sydney as presently constituted, viz: Sydney, Marrickville, Surry Hills, Mascot and Leichhardt. The respective proportions of the5 Employment Office areas involved are 90per cent of Sydney, 10 per cent of Marrickville, SO per cent of Surry Hills, 40 per cent of Mascot and 10 per cent of Leichhardt. At end- July 1977 the numbers of persons registered as unemployed at each of these Employment Offices were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available statistics of the size of the labour force by local government areas are those from the 1 97 1 Census of Population and Housing. These are now out of date and it would be inappropriate to use them to calculate the unemployment percentages sought Figures from the 1976 Census are not yet available. Moreover, with the exception of Ballarat, all the areas mentioned by the honourable member are within the metropolitan area of Melbourne which, for the purposes of the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES), is regarded as a single labour market 
I can provide the honourable member with the numbers of persons registered as unemployed at the Offices of the CES located in the areas he mentions. However, I should also remind him that CES Offices usually cover an area larger than the boundaries of the local government area in which they are situated. 
With these qualifications in mind, the numbers of persons registered as unemployed at end- July 1977 at the CES Offices listed below were: 
Northcote 1,508. 
(a) Heidelberg 1,203 (b) Collingwood 1,869 (c) Greensborough 1,038 (d) Ballarat 2,819 (e) Boronia 1,617 (0 Camberwell 1,739 (g) Mentone 1,387 and (h) Prahran 2,193. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand the honourable member's question as referring to the number of organisations of employees which have applied to have elections officially conducted under section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since the Government's secret postal ballot legislation came into operation on 9 August 1976. From 9 August 1976 until 29 July 1977, the number was 46. 
Elections in organisations are normally conducted on a recurrent basis related to the term of the office concerned. As a result it would not be possible to indicate the number of organisations of employees which have chosen to conduct their own ballots until the full cycle of elections, extending over 3-4 years in most instances, has been completed. 
Where the rules of an organisation do not provide for secret postal ballots, elections are to be conducted by the 
Returning Officer appointed under the rules of the organisation and in the manner prescribed in the Secret Postal Ballot Regulations to the Act. 
Where the rules of the organisation do provide for secret postal ballots, elections are conducted by the Returning Officer appointed under the rules of the organisation and in the manner provided in the rules of the organisation. 
The estimated cost to revenue of elections referred to in pan ( 1 ) was $246,680.08. 
Information on the cost of elections conducted by organisations themselves is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 133 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act requires that the rules of a registered organisation shall provide for the manner in which persons may become candidates for election. Neither the Act nor the regulations specifically require that the rules give members notice of the opening and closing date for nominations. However, section 140 of the Act provides that the rules shall not impose upon members conditions, obligations or restrictions which, having regard to the objects of the Act and the purposes of registration under the Act, are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust. 
Compliance with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the prescribed conditions set out in the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations is a precondition to registration as an organisation. Regulation 1 15(i) is to the effect that none of the rules of the applicant association '. . . shall be a rule which, if the association were registered, would contravene sub-section(l) of section 140 of the Act'. 
The operation of alterations to certain rules of an organisation requires the certification by the Registrar that, in his opinion, the alteration complies with and is not contrary to the provisions of the Act, of the regulations or of an award and is not otherwise contrary to law. 
Whether a provision of the rules of an organisation complies with the requirements of section 140 is a matter for the opinion of the Industrial Registrar. 
Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations: Nominations for Positions in Registered Organisations (Question No. 98) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regulation 139 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations, as amended by Statutory Rules 1976 No. 187, prescribes that a request by an organisation or a branch of an organisation under section 170 (1) of the Concilation and Arbitration Act for the conduct of an election shall be made not less than 2 months or more than 6 months before the last day on which persons may become candidates at the electionthat is, the closing date of nominations. Formerly, the prescribed period was a period not less than one month and not more than three months before the closing date of nominations. 
The amendment of regulation 139 was in response to difficulties experienced in the operation of the former regulation. I am advised that, in many instances, requests were not made until the period prescribed by regulation 139 (2) had almost expired and that as a consequence the Industrial Registrar and the Chief Australian Electoral Officer at times encountered serious difficulties in the conduct of the election, requiring, for example, the postponement of certain steps in theelection. 
I am also advised that experience had shown that it was desirable, in order to reduce the likelihood of requests being made out of time, to enlarge the time for making requests by extending the maximum period during which they may be made from 3 months to 6 months before the closing date of nominations. 
Resolution of these difficulties has been effected by increasing the maximum time prescribed for the making of a request to 6 months before the closing date of nominations and having the time for making requests expire 2 months before that date. 
Under the amended Regulation, the Registrar retains his discretion under regulation 139 (3) to accept a request made less than 2 months before the closing date of nominations. The type of situation to which the honourable member has adverted appears to be covered by the existence of this discretion in the Registrar. Furthermore, the Government has also promulgated regulations (Statutory Rules 1977 No. 33) which require industrial organisations to notify by 1 September in each year information as to the dates of nominations for elections due in the forthcoming 12 month period. The regulations also require the publication of this information by the Industrial Registrar. Members of organisations will thus have an opportunity to decide whether to request an election under section 170, and be able to do so well within the prescribed time limits. 
I have already described the effect of regulation 139. Regulation 146AD, which applies to elections conducted under the secret postal ballots regulations, prescribes that the Returning Officer shall, within 2 1 days before the opening of nominations, publish in a newspaper certain particulars concerning the lodging of nominations. 
There is no conflict between these two regulations. The requirements of regulation 139 are founded upon the closing date of nominations, those of regulation 146 AD upon the opening date of nominations. In practice, in the case of an organisation conducting an election in accordance with the secret postal ballot regulations, and requesting the conduct of that election under section 1 70 (i), the requirements of the Regulations would apply without conflict. For example, where the rules of an organisation required nominations to remain open for one month, a request under section 170 (i) would, in accordance with regulation 139, be required to be made at least two months before the closing date of nominations and thus would precede the opening date of nominations by one month. That request would precede by one week the notification in accordance with regulation 146AD, that is, 2 1 days before the opening date of nominations. It is not, therefore, a result of the combination of regulations 139 and 146 AD that nominations must remain open for a period of 2 months, or that they may be required to remain open for a longer period than specified by the rules of an organisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The only official information available on union elections relates to those of elections that are conducted by the Industrial Registrar or the Australian Electoral Office pursuant to section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The information sought by the honourable member for the period 9 August 1 976 to 29 July 1 977 is contained in the table referred to in the Answer to parliamentary question No. 437, and which has been placed in the House of Representatives Table Office. Information for the period 1 January 1976 to 8 August 1976 will be forwarded to the honourable member when it is available. 
I do not know where the honourable member got his figures for the petrol consumption of the cars. 
I shall check with my colleague who is responsible for this area about the petrol consumption of the cars servicing Parliament House. I am sure that the honourable member for Robertson would not wish to see the services provided for members of Parliament become inadequate in any way. I am sure that my colleague has that very much m mind. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Wills)  seems to think that there is something inherently desirable in a growing Public Service, and in that he is being consistent with his colleagues and the general attitude of his party that public employment is preferable to private enterprise employment. Frankly, the Government does not agree with that proposition. We believe that it is a prime responsibility of government to see that the taxpayers' money- after all, it is the taxpayers who foot the bill for Public Service salaries- is looked after properly, consistent with providing adequate services to the community. The honourable member for Gellibrand has joined the ranks of those who in recent days have made allegations about the supposedly harmful and disruptive effects of the imposition of staff ceilings in areas of Commonwealth employment. 
I welcome this opportunity to make quite clear the Government's position on this issue which in the minds of some people seems to have assumed an importance quite out of proportion to the real situation. The fact is that the Government has taken decisions to reduce staffing levels not only for economic reasons but also because it was clear to the Government on coming to office that the size of the Commonwealth area of employment had grown far beyond the demands for effective and efficient staffing. It is relevant to note that during the three years that the Australian Labor Party was in government staff numbers in the Australian Public Service grew as follows: In 1972-73 the growth was 4.09 per cent; in 1973-74 it was 4.87 per cent; and in 1974-75 it was 4.01 per cent. The cuts that this Government has made have to be seen in the context of the rise in numbers during those three years. 
Since we came to office the Australian Public Service staff was reduced, after allowance is made for changes in Public Service Act coverage, in 1975-76 by 4.2 per cent and by 1.7 per cent last year. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced in the Budget Speech there will be a further reduction in numbers during 1977-78. In its application of staff ceilings the Government has been very much aware of the need to maintain a satisfactory delivery of services to the Australian public and has therefore paid close attention to the effects of staff ceilings on those departments responsible for the provision of those services. As this House will be aware the particular situations of my Department and of the Department of Social Security have been kept under constant review and adjustments to ceilings have been made periodically following the several reviews which have taken place. In addition, special arrangements have been made between the Department of Social Security and the Public Service Board to ensure that emerging staff problems are monitored and attended to promptly. 
More generally, the Government has been concerned to ensure that a proper and effective mechanism exists for the speedy consideration of representations made to the Government by departments and authorities. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has already said, this mechanism has taken the form of an interdepartmental committee comprising representatives of the Public Service Board, the Department of Finance and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. This interdepartmental committee has reported to the Prime Minister who has approved when there has been justification either a lifting of ceilings or a temporary penetration of ceilings. We believe that staff restrictions most certainly have had favourable effects on the efficiency of management of human resources in the Public Service. It is a fact of life that in situations of limited resources more attention has to be paid to planning, organisation of work and priority setting and we strongly believe that it is in the interests of the community that resource management of this kind is achieved in the Public Service. It cannot be achieved in situations of virtual unlimited growth which occurred under the Labor Government. 
I would like now to examine the detailed arrangements which operate in relation to staff ceilings because it is important to remember that these ceilings are flexible. There are two important points. The first is that when ceilings are set at the start of each year they are tailored to the work loads and needs of individual departments at that time. The second point is that even then the mechanism exists and is often used to amend ceilings during the course of the year if circumstances change. What happens is that the initial settings are determined by the Government following receipt of recommendations from officials. In turn the officials' recommendations are based on estimates from each department or authority of its staffing needs for the current year. Those estimates give bids for the number of staff against each major program or project for which the department is responsible. The net effect of this process is that even when overall ceilings are reduced a number of departments are allowed to grow on the basis of a proven work load. That is what happens at the start of the year. 
Now let us look at administration during the year. Departments and/or Ministers who believe that their ceiling is inadequate for whatever reason can present a case for having an adjustment made. Normally this would arise because circumstances had changed since the ceilings were set but it could simply be an appeal against the original level set in the way I described a moment ago. Each representation is treated on its merits and many adjustments to staff ceilings are made in this way. Some of these changes are very significant. For example, the staff of the Department of Social Security grew by almost 900 during 1976-77 largely as a result of changes to ceilings as the work load in the Department grew. Similarly, in my Department of Employment and Industrial Relations the staff number also grew in real terms by several hundred during the year in much the same way. 
The House will remember the details I gave some time ago of increases in staffing in the 
Commonwealth Employment Service in line with the interim report of  Mr Norgard  on the Commonwealth Employment Service. We accepted that interim report and increased staff ceilings immediately. There are in addition several smaller examples that show the flexibility of the staff ceiling arrangements. For example, the staff number in the Family Court grew by over 130 last year and in the Department of the Capital Territory by 120. As I have mentioned, there were the substantial increases in the Department of Social Security and my own Department. So the setting of ceilings is flexible. It is determined by proper processes in the first instance and reviewed during the course of the year according to representations received from departments or Ministers. 
It is also relevant to note that the claim is often made that although the profit motive does not apply in the Public Service setting, the application of staff ceilings to the Public Service does apply many of the constraints of the profit motive on managers within the service. They have to weigh up very carefully against their department's objectives the relative merits of deploying staff against particular programs and do so in such a way that the best use is made of available staff resources. Under the constraint of recent ceilings a number of beneficial effects have been noted in areas such as better forward planning, overall resources management and avoidance of waste. I refer honourable members to the Public Service Board's annual report of 1971 which referred to several of these factors including increased emphasis on actual examination of priorities, improved planning, better organisation of work and more effective use of resources. The Government and the Public Service Board will continue to ensure a proper balance between the size and efficiency of the Public Service and the services it provides to the Public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However, apart from the legislation passed by the South Australian Parliament in December 1974 which I cited in my answer to the honourable member 's question No. 1129  (Hansard,  15 February 1977, page 67), none of the other States indicated that they proposed to enact legislation on this matter. 
Moreover, as I advised the honourable member in my answer to his question without notice on 7 September 1977  (Hansard,  page 801), and in my subsequent clarification to the House on 8 September 1977  (Hansard,  page 886), the informal discussions I had with the State Ministers, on the occasion of the 1 8th Meeting of the Conference of Ministers of Labour, held in Perth on 1-2 September 1977, indicated that there has been no change in this position. 
In the first six months of this year the officially published statistics of the Australian Bureau of Statistics show the lowest amount of time lost through industrial disputes for approximately 10 years. That contrasts very markedly with the situation under the previous Government when both time lost and wages lost through industrial disputation reached record levels. To a major extent the figures now reflect the sound policies of the present Government. In particular we have not followed the example of our predecessors. We have not encouraged unions to pursue extravagant wage claims which the economy could not possibly sustain. 
The Australian industrial system and its legal framework are excellent and no direct action in pursuit of claims is necessary. Certainly the Government will not be coerced by irresponsible union muscle and it will not hesitate to introduce legislation, as it has already done, if and when it is necessary. The Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission expressed concern at the high level of disputation when it was hearing recent national wage cases. We also believe that this level is too high. What people have to appreciate is that statistics do not tell the whole story. Many disputes have little effect on statistics although they cause very serious dislocation to business and disruption to the community. As examples of that latter type of dispute, I instance the air traffic controllers strike and the fuel tankers dispute in Victoria. Neither of them would have had a significant effect on statistics as printed but they caused enormous disruption to the community. 
Other disputes totally disregard the wage indexation guidelines of the Commission. They seriously affect industrial production. They affect business confidence and our overseas trade. As examples of those sorts of disputes I instance the building industry disputes currently taking place in Victoria, disputes in the Pilbara which disrupted our trade to Japan, bans by the Seamen's Union of Australia involving claims for crewing of ships engaged in overseas trade and strikes in Queensland abattoirs which again have threatened the fulfilling of contracts and, in one instance at least, closed a works and put hundreds of people out of a job. By engaging in these sorts of disputes unionists show a total lack of concern for the effects on the community and on fellow workers. 
In summary, statistics alone tell nothing of the relative cost to the country and to employment opportunities. We must go beyond the figures and look at the facts. The Government will continue to condemn irresponsible and unwarranted action of this kind as an attack on the Australian community. 
Pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1 9 1 8,I present a copy of the report with a map showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for Tasmania together with copies of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
Ordered that the report and map be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In general, the Government is satisfied that the legislation is working satisfactorily. Unions are taking advantage of section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which enables elections conducted by the industrial registrar or the Commonwealth Electoral Office to be conducted at no cost to the union. In the 12 months prior to August 1976, when the new legislation came into effect, I am informed that 178 applications for officially conducted elections were received. In the 12 months after 9 August 1976, the number was 244 and that represents an increase of 37 per cent. So, the figures indicate a definite trend towards officially conducted ballots. 
As yet, I think it is too early to assess with any accuracy the extent of acceptance of officially conducted ballots since the legislation came into effect, because not all unions nave been required by their rules to have elections conducted. But it is my own view that ultimately most, if not all, union elections will be officially conducted. For the information of honourable members, I have recently provided an answer to question No. 437 giving details of all elections that have been held. The question is available at the Table Office. 
The Government has been monitoring closely the requirement that the elections should be conducted by postal ballot and, on the information that is available to us, it would seem that some exceptions to the postal ballot provisions have been occurring. Some elections, for example, in the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union have not conformed with the requirements of the Act. As a result the Arbitration Inspectorate, in accordance with its duties to ensure observance of the Act, has carried out detailed investigations. I understand that, in those cases, new elections will be held. There have also been aspects of elections involving the Builders Labourers Federation which have been much less than satisfactory. 
So, the Government is looking closely at those aspects. It will be putting proposals to the National Labour Consultative Council with a view to ensuring that the intention of the secret postal ballot legislation is in fact being achieved. Any necessary amendments in the Act will be incorporated in the industrial legislation that I will be introducing in the House later this session. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Trade Union Training. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to extend the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 to the external Territories of Australia, to enable the Commonwealth to acquire land in those Territories for its purposes under the same Act as applies throughout the rest of Australia. Honourable members will be aware that it is the intention of the Government to establish an animal quarantine station in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Honourable members will also recall that in a Press statement dated 16 June last the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  said that it was the Government's policy to own all land on which its facilities are located. Discussions will be held in the near future relating to the purchase of land for the quarantine station and, as necessary, the purchase of other land in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. This amendment to the Act will provide the necessary machinery for compulsory acquisition should a negotiated settlement not be possible. In such circumstances the amendment will allow the owner of the land- the Clunies Ross Estate- recourse to the courts for fair and just compensation. 
The Lands Acquisition Act provides that all acquisitions carried out by the Commonwealth shall be on just terms, in line with the provisions of the Constitution. At present the Act applies in all of the States, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory but does not apply in the external Territories of Australia. All owners of property should have the same rights and the same obligations when the Commonwealth acquires their land. This BUI provides that the Commonwealth's acquisition powers, as well as its obligations when acquiring real property, apply universally within Australia and all its Territories. The Act contains provisions safeguarding owners' rights. Parliament is empowered under the Act to void a compulsory acquisition if it sees fit. Formal processes are laid down for notifying owners of intended acquisition and of the rights and obligations after land has been acquired. The Act also lays down the right to faircompensation, rights to arbitration and to assessment of compensation by the courts in cases of disagreement. The Bill makes special provision for landowners in the external Territories, isolated from the Australian mainland, to deliver claims, notices or other documents to a local address rather than to the address of a chief property officer on the mainland or in Tasmania. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
11 August 1977. 
No decision has been made whether and, if so, when the report of the interdepartmental group will be tabled. 
Both. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(D- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department instituted, in April 1977, a review of ILO Convention No. 65- Penal Sanctions (Indigenous Workers), 1939, in accordance with established Commonwealth/State arrangements for the periodic examination of compliance with ILO Conventions not yet ratified by Australia. 
I am advised that the review revealed the existence of a number of provisions in Federal and State legislation which were inconsistent with the Convention. These were as follows: 
-No, it is not true that all funds to Community Youth Support Scheme projects have been frozen, although I understand that telegrams relating to, from memory, five projects and indicating that funds would be frozen or suspended were sent out. I am well aware of the very fine job that is being done under many of these schemes, which are supported by many honourable members of this House. Some 212 schemes have been approved throughout Australia. At any one time about 8,000 young people are participating in them and in total some 20,000 young people have participated. 
I was not happy about the way in which the instructions relating to the suspension or termination of funds for a few projects were issued. I have instructed that new arrangements should be followed whereby the State committee concerned, which has the responsibility to administer and approve such projects, will notify the federal member in whose electorate the project is involved. The committee will inform the appropriate federal member of any information it might have which would lead to the suspension or termination of funds, permitting him the opportunity to make his views known to the committee and to carry out whatever investigations he wishes to make. Finally, before any decision to terminate funds for any project is made, such proposal will need to come back to me for my personal assessment and approval. 
-The honourable member will be aware that during the time of his Government an inquiry into the reliability of Commonwealth Employment Service figures as a measure of the state of unemployment showed that they had serious deficiencies and that the figures of the Bureau of Statistics were a much more accurate measure of the state of the labour market. This was referred to in very strong terms by  Mr Norgard  in his review of the CES. He said that replacement of CES figures by figures derived from a monthly survey by the Australian Bureau of Statistics should have the highest priority. In view of the facts which came to light as a result of the inquiry made while the honourable gentleman's party was in power and as a result of the recommendations made by  Mr Norgard,  the Government is considering how best to inform the public of the correct state of the labour market. 
-The House will be aware that bans imposed by the Australian Builders Labourers Federation on major building projects in Victoria are costing thousands of jobs at a time when the unemployment rate is relatively high, and when jobs could otherwise be immediately available on projects involving some $500m worth of investment. Some little time ago, as a result of an application made by the Master Builders Association,  Mr Justice  Alley of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ordered under section 45 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act a secret ballot to be held by the builders labourers involved in work on the State Savings Bank. The result of that ballot was that 44 members voted for a return to work and 16 voted against a return to work. The Master Builders Association then sent out notices to the men concerned asking them to report for work this week. I am informed that 40 men duly turned up at the site but were met by an organiser from the Builders Labourers Federation who informed them that no work was to take place. I am informed further that the men who had turned up thereupon held another ballot amongst themselves, the result of that ballot being that they would resume work, as I understand it, tomorrow. 
Nothing could give a clearer indication of the very deep feeling among the rank and file members of Builders Labourers Federation against the totally irresponsible and destructive actions of their union leaders. They have expressed their opinion when given an opportunity to do so and they have reiterated that opinion despite the presence of a Builders Labourers Federation organiser who attempted to intimidate them out of voting to return to work. That is indicative of the fact that, when given the opportunity to do so, rank and file union members often indicate that they do not go along with the disruptive tactics of those who allege that they are representing their interests. I believe that the use of the ballot legislation in this instance, and in other instances in recent times, is an indication that the people concerned appreciate the opportunity of being allowed to voice their opinion. 
If the BLF persists in its attempts to dissuade people from working on this project, as honourble members know there is currently a bans clause in the award and the Master Builders Association has made application for a certificate under it which could lead to the invocation of penal provisions of the Act. I have no doubt that the actions of the Builders Labourers Federation officials will be taken into account by the Deputy President of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission when he hears this case. 
-The Leader of the Opposition will appreciate that, in view of the ramifications and the serious nature of the questions he has raised, I shall need to take them up with my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services. I will see that he is provided with an answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 9 August 1976, when the Government's secret postal ballot legislation came into operation, and 17 June 1977, elections for 2,417 offices were conducted pursuant to 198 applications made under section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for officially conducted elections. 
The number may include some offices which are not required by sub-section 133AA(1) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to be conducted by secret postal ballot. Such offices have not been distinguished as the amount of work involved would not be justified. 
Information concerning secret postal ballots which were conducted by the organisations themselves is unavailable. 
and (3) The dates of the ballots and the offices for which they were conducted are set down in table form and, in accordance with previous practice, have been placed in the House of Representatives Table Office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 9 August 1976, when the Government's secret postal ballot legislation came into operation, and 17 June 1977, elections for 325 offices were conducted under the regulations referred to in sub-section 133AA(2) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act pursuant to 38 applications made under section 170 of the Act for officially conducted elections. 
The number may include some offices which are not required by sub-section 133AA(1) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to be conducted by secret postal ballot. Such  were circulated:  offices have not been distinguished as the amount of work involved would not be justified. 
Information on the number of elections conducted by organisations under the regulations is unavailable. 
and (3) The dates of the ballots and the offices for which they were conducted are set out in the table referred to in the answer to the honourable member's parliamentary question No. 437 and, in accordance with previous practice, that table has been placed in the House of Representatives Table Office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) Professional actors, entertainers and television performers can obtain advice on employment opportunities from the Professional Employment Office in the range of occupations covered by that Office. However, following a departmental review in December 1976, it was evident that such persons could be best assisted by the Commonwealth Employment Service through their local office rather than the Professional Employment Office. Employers of performing artists engage them through the established network of artists' agents. The Commonwealth Employment Service assistance to unemployed performing artists relates to other alternative employment (including relevant training where appropriate) and, where such employment is not available, access to unemployment benefit. This assistance is best provided by the normal offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service rather than the specialised Professional Employment Office. The changed procedure has already been introduced in Sydney and will shortly be implemented in other capital cities. 
No. Eligibility for unemployment benefit is not dependent on union membership. However, a claimant may on occasions use his membership of a union to establish his occupational status, but this only has relevance for an initial period since policy now requires claimants to consider, after a reasonable period, employment outside their normal occupation, even if this means a change in status or remuneration. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) These matters are the subject of recommendations in the Report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections which is under consideration by the Government. 
and (5) The Canberra College of Advanced Education proposes to introduce courses in materials conservation in 1978. In its report 'Recommendations for 1978', which was tabled in the Parliament in September, the Tertiary Education Commission supported projected student enrolment figures for the Canberra College of Advanced Education which would allow such courses to proceed. (6), (7) and (8) See answer to (1). Legislation has, however, been enacted to protect historic wrecks and relics recovered from those wrecks. This matter was the subject of recommendation 2. 14 of the committee of inquiry. 
The Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976 received the royal assent on 15 December 1976. Its provisions may be brought into effect in relation to waters adjacent to the coast of each State separately upon proclamation. On 3 September 1977 the Act was proclaimed for waters off the Western Australian coast primarily to protect the old Dutch shipwrecks in those waters. Historically significant colonial wrecks in those waters are also now protected by the Act. 
The States will be consulted prior to a decision being taken to proclaim the Act for waters presently not covered by the Act. 
The Government has also decided to introduce further tax incentives to stimulate the flow of gifts to public museums, an galleries and libraries. Recommendation 2. 1 7 of the committee of inquiry recommended arrangements along these lines. New tax provisions will come into operation for a trial period of three years on 1 January 1978. In the past, a person could claim on a gift only if he had acquired the item in the last twelve months or if it were cash. The twelve months test will now be removed and valuations will now generally be based on market values. 
Legislation giving effect to the new incentives scheme liberalising tax concessions on gifts to public an galleries, libraries and museums is expected to be introduced in the present session of the Parliament. 
Commonwealth Funding of Programs in Federal Electorates (Question No. 1087) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Paragraph 5 (b) (vii) of the booklet entitled 'the Australian National Flag' published by the Department of Administrative Services states in part- 'There is a standing approval for the Australian National Flag to be flown from the main flagstaff on Government buildings on all working days during normal working hours . . . The flag may be displayed at night, but only where it is properly illuminated'. 
All Government offices are entitled to a framed portrait of the Queen. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The votes and percentage of total formal votes polled at the election of members of the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory on 13 August 1977 were as follows: 
Australian Labor Party, 12,165 votes- 38.23 percent 
Country-Liberal Party, 12,769 votes-40. 13 percent 
other candidates, 6,883 votes- 2 1 .64 per cent 
-I am surprised that the honourable member has taken the attitude that he has taken in relation to the power workers dispute in Victoria in which about 2,000 men in the Latrobe Valley are holding an entire State to ransom. 
in reply- I was pleased to hear from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  that the Opposition supports the Government in respect of this measure. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is not in the House at the moment but I think I should reply to a point he raised in his speech. He referred to the application of this Lands Acquisition Act to some of Australia's island territories. I think he referred to Christmas Island and some of the Coral Sea islands. I would em- phasise that at present the only privately owned and in the external territories is in Norfolk Island and the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. All the land in the other territories to which the honourable member referred is Crown land anyway. 
There is no private land on them so this legislation has no application to them. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory referred also to the question of land rights and the possible extension of the process of the acquisition of land in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands beyond the land required for the immediate purpose of building a quarantine station. I am told that the only other areas envisaged for acquisition, if negotiations should fail-of course we must not forget that negotiation is the first step in the process- is land for the Home Island village and land for two extensions to the transmitter site. Again I would remind the honourable member that if negotiations should break down the land has to be acquired on just terms. 
I agree with the honourable member for Hunter that the Parliament should keep a close eye on the taxpayers money and the way it is used. I would remind him that there is a constitutional obligation on the Commonwealth, when it does step in and acquire land, that it do so on just terms not merely for the taxpayer but also for the owner of the property concerned. I do not think he would quarrel with that principle. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  made the point that the Government needs the capacity in certain circumstances to acquire land for public purposes, whether on the mainland or on the external territories. I believe that this is a sound extension of a principle which has been adopted since Federation. As we know, the obligation for just terms compensation is written into our Constitution, and that principle likewise should apply in Australia's external Territories. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of Tasmania into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs J. R. Lennard, C. C. A. Butler and J. M. Windsor, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the House of Representatives on 2 1 September 1977, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted. 
The Government has now considered the report of the distribution commissioners for Tasmania. It is the view of the Government that the report should be adopted and we therefore recommend to the Parliament that the report be approved. This is the first report presented since the current redistribution process began earlier this year. The distribution commissioners for all States have faced a difficult and complex task. I hope that the House will join with me in expressing appreciation of the manner in which they have carried out their duties. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Elections in organisations are normally conducted on a recurrent basis related to the term of the office concerned. As a result it would not be possible to indicate which major Federal unions are conducting their own ballots until the full cycle of elections extending over 3-4 years in most instances is complete. 
The only official information available on union elections relates to those elections that are conducted by the Industrial Registrar or the Australian Electoral Office pursuant to section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In this case I refer the honourable member to the answer to parliamentary question No. 814 asked by  Dr Klugman  (House of Representatives  Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3727). In that answer details were provided on all elections conducted officially for the calendar years 1955, 1956 and 1971-75. Similar information for the calendar years 1956-1970 can be found in the House of Representatives  Hansard,  7 September 1971, page 899 and 10 May 1972, pages 2326-2334. Information for the period 9 August 1976 to 17 June 1977 is contained in the table referred to in the answer to parliamentary question No. 437 asked by  Mr Brown,  which has been placed in the House of Representatives Table Office. The information for the period 1 January 1 9 76 to 8 August 1 976 is not yet available. 
Terms of office can vary from one year to a statutory maximum of 4 years. The probable average, or more common term, would be 3 years for Branch and Federal officials. At the section level terms would be more likely to be for one year. 
I understand this part of the honourable member's question to be referring to the number of employee organisations which, by their rules, require their members to vote in secret ballots for elections to office. I am advised that the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia and the Musicians' Union of Australia are the only employee organisations which have such a requirement in their rules. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The numbers of Commonwealth Public Servants who have taken paternity leave and the approximate cost for each financial year were: in 1973-74, approximately 7,000, estimated cost $900,000; in 1 974-75, approximately 7,800, estimated cost $ 1 .2m; in 1975-76, approximately 4,000, estimated cost $730,000. (The above figures refer to persons employed under the Public Service Act and for the financial years 1973-74 and 1 974-75 include start employed in the former Australian Post Office. Figures for the 1976-77 financial year are not yet available.) 
(a) During the period 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1976 approximately 11,000 women employed under the Public Service Act have made use of the provisions of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1 973. 
As maternity leave is an entitlement for eligible officers and employees, the numbers applying for and taking leave may be assumed to be the same. 
Precise cost figures are not available, but the estimated cost of maternity leave is approximately $4m in 1973-74, $7m in 1974-75 and $5m in 1975-76. 
Information on the number of women returning to duty on completion of maternity leave is not recorded. The Public Service Board estimates that between 40 and 45 per cent of women availing themselves of the maternity leave provisions resume their public service careers at the end of their maternity leave. No information is available to indicate for what period they remain in Commonwealth employment following resumption of duty. 
From what I have said it will be clear that there are deficiencies in the available statistics on the use made of the parental leave provisions and their cost. The Public Service Board is proceeding to improve the content and nature of its statistical information in this area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will recall that, in answer to his question without notice on 1 June 1977, 1 indicated that arrangements were being made for  Mr Toomer  to be given legal assistance in relation to the preparation of submissions he might wish to make to the inquiry into his case. 
Immediately after the announcement of the inquiry (the statement tabled by me in Parliament on 1 June 1 977 refers),  Mr Toomer  was asked to contact the Public Service Inspector in Perth in order that arrangements for legal assistance might be made. 

 Mr Toomer subsequently did this, and was told by the Public Service Inspector that the arrangements envisaged the provision of assistance by a solicitor, as required, in connection with the preparation of submissions  Mr Toomer  might wish to make to the inquiry. The Public Service Inspector also advised  Mr Toomer  that the Australian Legal Aid Office in Penh would, if necessary, assist him to obtain the services of a solicitor. 

 Mr Toomer indicated to the Public Service Inspector that the would need to consider the matter, mentioning that he had been dealing with a lawyer in Melbourne. 

 Mr Toomer has not since been contacted by the Public Service Inspector on the question of legal assistance, although he did discuss the matter in a general way with  Mr R.  Perriman, one of the officers undertaking the inquiry. 
I understand  Mr Toomer  has now completed his appearances before the inquiry, and I can only assume that he decided not to pursue the offer of assistance. 
-The last  Dart  of the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition is not correct. This question is a little difficult to answer in detail because by agreement of all the parties in the National Labour Consultative Council the proceedings in the Council and the papers which are distributed within the Council for its use are to be regarded as confidential. That was agreed by all the parties in the interests of having a frank and oper forum so that views could be freely expressed. I am able to say, without violating that, that the employers indicated that they had always supported what have become known as the Chifley 1947 proposals regarding the payment of unemployment benefit. They have not considered any other proposal than that with their constituent members and, therefore, that was the only view they could put at the present time. That has been their policy. They have not considered anything else and that remains their policy. 
Various views were expressed by members of the Council on other issues which were raised. The first is the payment of unemployment benefit in the context of the stand-downs resulting from the electricity strike, and the second and quite separate issue is the payment of benefit to school leavers. Bearing in mind the confidential nature of the Council which is, I emphasise, by agreement, it would not be appropriate for me to divulge the nature of those discussions. As I understand the position, the Minister for Social Security will be clarifying the Government's attitude in relation to both issues. 
-I am not sure about the timing of it 
Pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 19181 present a copy of the report with a map by the Distribution Commissioners for Queensland showing the boundaries of each proposed division together with copies of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
Ordered that the report and map be printed. 
Pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 19181 present a copy of the report with a map by the Distribution Commissioners for South Australia showing the boundaries of each proposed division together with copies of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
Ordered that the report and map be printed. 
Pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 19181 present a copy of the report with a map by the Distribution Commissioners for Western Australia showing the boundaries of each proposed division together with copies of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners. I anticipate that bulk supplies of the report will be available in time for the report to be distributed to members and senators tomorrow, Wednesday 19 October. In the meantime copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library for members perusal. However, I can say that the Distribution Commissioners have made no changes to their preliminary proposals which were made public on15 August 1977. 
Ordered that the report and map be printed. 
I see, as the first consequence of any action taken, an attempt by a responsible government to provide services to the people and the community that elected it. The Commonwealth Government will support the Victorian Government in its efforts to do its job. 
I am not aware of the day on which the application was lodged. I understand that it is likely to come on before  Mr Justice  Smithers at 2.30 this afternoon. As the legislation makes clear, deregistration of a union is the last step which can be taken in the processes through our industrial system, through the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Australian Industrial Court. It is taken only when the action of a union indicates that its members are no longer entitled to the umbrella of protection which registration gives it. Therefore, anybody applying for deregistration has to view very seriously the circumstances in which he seeks it. I do not think any member of this House would deny the seriousness of the position in Victoria. In these circumstances, the normal procedures of our system are being applied. 
Yes. I have examined in some detail the system in Canada. So often industrial relations systems evolve in response to the particular needs and circumstances of the country involved. The system to which the honourable member referred may very well be entirely appropriate for Canada. Our system has grown up in a somewhat different way because of different circumstances. In view of the very widespread adherence to the wage indexation guidelines of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at present and the cohesion that has been developed in both State and Federal areas to maintain wage increases within the guidelines, I must say that I view with a good deal of concern any system which appointed ad hoc arbitrators to near major wage claims. I think our system suits us, and I would have to give very careful consideration before I advocated changing it in such a fundamental way. 
For the informaton of honourable members I present the report of the inquiry into unemployment benefits policy and administration, together with the consultants ' recommendations to the inquiry. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960 I present the annual report of the National Library for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to present the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1977. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes important, far-reaching amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The measures it contains give effect to the Government Parties' industrial relations policy which was overwhelmingly endorsed at the last election. This policy reflects a fundamental review of the rights and responsibilities of the parties engaged in industrial relations and the demands of the contemporary community. An important feature of this legislation is the manner in which the Government has sought to expose the subject matter of the Bill to intensive public scrutiny. Much of the substance of this Bill was introduced to the House in March of this year. 
In my second reading speech on that Bill I said that, because of the fundamental importance of the legislation, the Government intended members of this Parliament, the principal parties to industrial relations, and the community at large, to be given time to consider objectively the contents of the Bill and to make their views known to the Government. Accordingly the Bill was to lie on the table of the House until at least mid-May. Subsequently I entered into consultations, on behalf of the Government, with the peak union and employer councils. As a result of these meetings, I announced, on 17 May: 
The Government welcomes the acceptance by the ACTU of an Industrial Relations Bureau and the reconstitution of the National Labour Advisory Council. 
The Government has decided to pass legislation this session to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau which will have to function of securing the observance of the Act and awards in the terms already in the Act. 
Pending the detailed consideration of the Act referred to later in this statement, the Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more, no less, and those powers will be exercised according to the same processes as they have been until now. 
The Government will also legislate this session to reconstitute the National Labour Advisory Council to provide a national tripartite forum for the consideration of issues of national concern in the industrial relations and manpower areas. 
Both these bodies are key elements in the Government's industrial relations policy. 
The Government is also committed to legislating for the protection of individual rights in the industrial area. 
However, it is prepared to review the provisions of these aspects and on other matters relating to the operation of the Act contained in the present Bill in the light of their further consideration by the reconstituted National Labour Advisory Council. To enable this the Government will stand over until the Budget session further legislation in relation to these matters. 
On 27 May, and in accordance with this statement, I introduced legislation into this House for the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau and the National Labour Consultative Council. As honourable members will be aware, the Act establishing the Industrial Relations Bureau was given royal assent on 12 June. The provisions of that Act providing for the appointment of a Director of the Bureau and enabling him to undertake the organisation of the Bureau were proclaimed to operate from 3 October. On that date, the first Director of the Bureau,  Mr D.  L. 
Linehan, took up his appointment. The provisions enabling the Bureau to commence its function of securing the observance of the Act, regulations and awards will be proclaimed as soon as the Director has completed the necessary organisational arrangements. Similarly, honourable members will be aware that I took immediate steps to convene the National Labour Consultative Council following its creation by legislation. The Council has now met on three occasions and, in accordance with my statement of 17 May referred to earlier, considered the legislative proposals contained in the Bill of last March. 
I take this opportunity to express my gratitude to both the national employers and the peak trade union councils for the frank views put to me during those consultations. The weight the Government has given those views is borne out by an examination of the amendments proposed by the current Bill. Though similar in substance, it is not the same Bill I introduced in March. A number of modifications have been made and some matters are not pursued. Furthermore, the process of consultation has permitted the airing of other issues and their presentation in legislative form. For example, the current Bill will make provision concerning accounting practices and financial reporting m organisations registered under the Act. These provisions are based on the recommendations of the Royal Commission under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Sweeney into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions conducted during the office of the previous government. I believe this Bill is evidence of the earnest and careful consideration which the Government has given to the views put to it. However, at the end of the day it is for the Government to act, having regard not only to the views put to it, but also to the demands of the public interest, the interests of the community as a whole. 
One of the fundamental tenets of the Government's industrial relations policy is that each member of the community has both rights and obligations. Those rights must be protected and the obligations must be met. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act is perhaps the paramount Australian industrial statute. It is the principal means of giving legal expression to industrial rights and obligations. While it is not, and cannot be, a complete statement of those rights and obligations it certainly is the vehicle which establishes the framework of those rights and obligations by defining the roles and responsibilities of the parties to industrial relations and providing for an expression of the public interest. 
Industrial relations is a dynamic process, everchanging in response to the interplay of economic and social forces. Consequently no industrial statute of the significance of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act can hope to express or define those industrial relationships for all time. The law must be responsive to new demands and changing circumstances. Government has a duty to reshape the law to ensure its relevance to contemporary industrial relations. 
This Bill represents an important step in that continuing process of reshaping and redefining the rights and obligations under industrial law. It is a response to emergent trends in the social role of trade unions, or in the roles which they seek to assume, which has led to changes in the behaviour of trade unions as institutions. It is obvious that unions have moved a long way from being small craft organisations with limited aspirations concerned mainly with ensuring fair wages and working conditions for their members. By contrast, the union movement today is a powerful economic and social pressure group. Unions have grown greatly in size and are in a position to influence powerfully, by concerted action, the economic wellbeing of the community. No responsible Government can ignore this, or refuse to take steps to prevent such power being exercised contrary to the best interests of the community. 
A very real danger arises where a union, in pursuit of some limited or self-interested goal, is able to impose economic hardship and dislocation on the entire community. Over the past year we have experienced the crippling effect of strikes by fuel tanker drivers, aircraft refuellers and air traffic controllers. We have seen, and are witnessing, the frightening capacity of a relatively small group of unionists in the Victorian power industry to wreak havoc on an entire community. Such situations demand that action be taken. It is paramount that unions recognise their obligations and the legitimate interests of the Austraiian community. 
Motion (by  Mr Innes)  put: 
That the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations be not further heard. 
I was talking about provisions relating to secret postal ballots for union elections. To reinforce these provisions, it will be open to the Federal Court, in proceedings under section 1 4 1 of 1 7 1 C of the Act, to declare void an election not conducted in accordance with the secret postal ballots regulations, and direct that a fresh election be conducted. It will be an offence for a person to hold office knowing that he was not elected to that office by secret postal ballot where required by the Act. A penalty may also be imposed upon the organisation concerned. 
I have already briefly referred to amendments to give effect to the Report of the Royal Commission into Alleged Payments to Maritime 
Unions insofar as it related to accounting practices and financial reporting in organisations. In his report, the Royal Commissioner reflected upon the adequacy of the existing measures contained in the Act and regulations, and the low level of compliance with them by organisations. The Bill proposes amendments to the Act which, with only slight modification, implement the recommendations of the Royal Commission. These amendments provide for the records to be kept by organisations, for audit and the duties of auditors, for the submission of reports and audited accounts to members, for the filing of financial returns with the Industrial Registrar, and for the investigation of irregularities by the Industrial Relations Bureau and the initiation of actions in the Federal Court. These provisions will require supporting regulations. I agreed, when I met with the National Labour Consultative Council on 12 October last, to the establishment of a sub-committee of the Council to work with officers of my Department on the preparation of the necessary regulations. 
Protection of the Public Interest 
The final broad area with which this Bill is concerned is the series of measures which go to facilitate the expression of the public interest in the industrial relations process. In part, the vehicle which the Government has chosen for this role is the Industrial Relations Bureau. During my meeting with the unions on 11 May, the ACTU handed me a document setting out its position in relation to the agreement subsequently reached. That document noted that consultation in a National Labour Consultative Council may well produce positive, creative functions for a Bureau concerned with improving industrial relations. The Government is proposing amendments which give the Bureau precisely that role. 
The Industrial Relations Bureau will have, in the public interest, two broad functions. One of these involves securing the observance of the Act, the regulations and awards. The Arbitration Inspectorate has always had this function; the powers of the Bureau in relation to these matters will, however, be spelled out quite specifically. If the Bureau cannot bring about voluntary compliance with the law, it will have the necessary power to initiate appropriate proceedings in the' Commission and in the Industrial Division of the Federal Court. These powers will include the power to notify the Commission of a breach or likely breach of a bans clause in an award and to make application for a certificate under section 33 of the Act to enable proceedings to be taken for breach of the award in the Court. In response to the views put to me by the national employers and the peak trade union councils, the relevant provision has been redrawn to make clear that the Bureau cannot take part in the dispute settling process under this section. 
The Bureau will also have the right to apply for cancellation of an award, for an injunction restraining contraventions of the Act and regulations, and for deregistration in appropriate cases. The Bureau's second major area of responsibility concerns the role it will play in providing assistance to the members of organisations. Apart from its normal award inspection and advisory functions, it will assist persons to ensure that the rules of their organisation conform with the requirements of the Act and that they are observed by those under a duty to observe them. The Bureau will be empowered to investigate complaints by members that the rules of their organisations are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust, or otherwise contravene the Act; and will also be empowered to investigate complaints by members that the rules of their organisations are not being observed. If the Bureau fails to persuade the organisations either to take steps to amend its rules, or to observe its rules, as the case may be, the Bureau will be able to take the matter to the Court. The amendments now proposed in this regard retain the right of a person to go directly to the Court, rather than to have the Bureau act on his behalf, and this change again reflects views put to me by the national employers and the peak union councils. 
There are other related matters. As the Bureau will be properly staffed and equipped to undertake investigations, including the type just referred to, it has been decided to empower the Bureau to undertake investigations on behalf of the Industrial Registrar in connection with applications for inquiries by the Court into alleged irregularities in elections. Similarly, responsibility for the detailed investigations relating to the administration of the finances of an organisation under the proposed requirements will be given to the Bureau. 
I now come to further very significant provisions of this legislation. The Government proposes to amend section 143 of the Act to extend the grounds on which deregistration proceedings can be based. The new grounds will include power for the Court to deregister an organisation which prevents, hinders or interferes with interstate and overseas trade and commerce, or the provision of a public service of the Commonwealth or of a State. Honourable members are only too well aware that disputes affecting trade and commerce or essential services have imposed profound economic dislocation on the community. 
The Government also proposes to extend the range of consequences available to the Court in deregistration proceedings. The 'all or none' principle which presently applies limits the flexibility of the Court in dealing with breaches which may not warrant total deregistration. Thus, the Bill proposes to empower the Court to: 
partially deregister an organisation if it finds that the industrial action leading to the proceedings has resulted wholly or mainly from a particular section or class of members of the organisation; 
suspend all or any of the capacities, rights and privileges of an organisation or any of its members. 
Honourable members will be aware that, in the March Bill, this power of suspension was to be available in proceedings for offences under a number of sections of the Act. The intention now is that this power will be restricted to deregistration proceedings. This decision by Government is a further indication of the seriousness with which the views of national employers and the peak union councils have been considered. 
Finally, the Bill will insert a new provision in relation to demarcation disputes. For too long the powers of the Commission in this area have been inadequate to deal with demarcation disputesdisputes which may well bring an entire industry to a standstill. It is proposed that the Commission may order that an organisation cannot represent a specified class or group of employees and direct the organisation to amend its rules to exclude these employees from its membership. 
In conclusion, I reiterate that the measures in this Bill result from a comprehensive review of the operation of the Act, a review which has involved tripartite consultation at the highest levels. It represents a necessary reshaping of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to meet changed industrial circumstances and to reassert the rule of the law in expressing or defining industrial rights and obligations. Events of recent months and, most particularly, the events of the last few days have emphasised this is essential in the interests of our community. Here on behalf of all members of the House I pay tribute to the courage and integrity of  Mr Justice  Ludeke,  Mr Deputy President  Isaac and  Mr Commissioner  Vosti of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the recent Full Bench decision. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) No decision has been made to dispose of either the military camp or the land previously occupied by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. The matter is under review to determine what additional land (if any) will be required by Defence from the former CSL area. Other Commonwealth requirements for portion of the former CSL area are also being investigated. 
Should any land become surplus to Commonwealth needs, the manner in which it will be disposed of will be decided at that time. The Commonwealth does not normally sub-divide surplus land. 
Government policy requires that land surplus to Commonwealth needs be offered to State and local government authorities, in that order; any sale to the local Council would be on a fair market value basis. 
See(l) above. 
The honourable gentleman really answered half his question when he referred to the present employment and vacancy situation. The Government has already announced that this year it will be spending about $100m on training schemes, with particular attention being devoted to schemes for young people. It has also said that if opportunities are available and people meet the labour market criteria, finance will be no limit to the number of people who can be assisted. The present advertising campaign is directed principally at employers to make them aware of the assistance that is available to them for training people and to create more vacancies so that more opportunities can be provided, particularly for young people. I am surprised at the honourable gentleman suggesting that there is something improper in this. I can think of no better way in which to get more young people into jobs than to get them into productive employment associated with training for a skill which they previously did not have. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is part of a parcel of legislation designed to enable the introduction of new administrative, financial and industrial arrangements for the stevedoring industry. These arrangements were foreshadowed in my second reading speech to Parliament on 1 June this year when I introduced a Bill to extend until, the end of this year the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act. The Bills that I am now introducing give precise expression to the decisions of principle which I indicated the Government would translate into legislation during this session of Parliament. 
Before proceeding to deal with the particular Bills I want to provide a brief outline of how the proposed new arrangements have been developed and what they involve. It will be recalled that up until 1967 the nature of the waterside employment was almost exclusively casual. This resulted in a situation whereby the absence of employer-employee relationships which existed in most other industries adversely affected the performance of this industry. In 1965 the Government established a major industry conference under the chairmanship of  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C., with the objective of achieving long term improvement in the industry. In 1967 the Government introduced enabling legislation to permit the scheme of employment that emerged from the Conference to operate on a trial basis. Significant changes brought about by the Woodward Conference included the move from casual employment to a system of employment on weekly hire in the major ports; the introduction of pension and past service benefit schemes; and a significant reduction in the functions of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in the major ports. 
The Woodward Conference scheme was to have a trial period of  2Vi  years. However the temporary arrangements were allowed to continue and they in fact are still operative. Since the introduction of that scheme successive governments have given consideration to what further steps need to be taken to effect improvements in this industry. Late in 1975 the then Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Senator James  McClelland, requested  Mr R.  M. Northrop, Q.C.-as he then was- to report on the views of the parties to the industry as to what they saw as the problems associated with the existing arrangements and the action they considered appropriate for the Government to take as to future arrangements.  Mr Justice  Northrop reported to me early in 1976.  Mr Justice  Northrop 's report indicated that whilst all of the organisations and parties who made submissions to him agreed that the existing arrangements should not be allowed to continue, there was a sharp division between those who proposed that the Government should take a more direct role in the industry and those who believed the Government should seek to withdraw from its already limited regulatory role to enable the parties in the industry to assume more responsibility. 
Following detailed consultations with the industry parties and other interested organisations the Government determined that the time had been reached when everything should be done to ensure that this industry moved towards a situation where the relationships within the industry were as normal as possible and where the employers and employees should accept greater responsibility for the affairs of the industry. At the same time it was accepted that in those circumstances the role of the Authority in the industry would be discontinued. The Government considered this general approach was consistent with the steps first proposed by the Woodward Conference. This attitude of the Government on the future of the industry was made clear in the Parliament in May last year. 
The Northrop report highlighted many of the problems that have existed in the industry. It became clear that any new arrangements for the industry would need to provide for the following: Continued efforts to reduce the existing size of the workforce; satisfactory means of providing additional waterside workers to cope with fluctuating requirements as to labour needs; evidence of an adequate method of labour allocation; means of securing improved industrial relations; effective consultative arrangements to allow user interests and others to have an effective voice in the industry; and satisfactory funding arrangements including measures to recover the deficit accumulated by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The industry parties and other interested bodies were then consulted in detail on the requirements as to each of these problems and in November the Parliament was advised on the steps to be taken to effect the necessary changes in this industry. 
The first step was to act in respect of the problem of surplus labour. Late last year, at my invitation  Mr Justice  Robinson of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission brought the industry parties into conference to consider ways of meeting this problem. Arising from those proceedings a special redundancy program was developed which was to apply for a limited period. Under that program special benefits accrued to waterside workers who were prepared to leave the industry by the end of March this year. This program had the immediate effect of some 900 men being induced to leave their employment. I might point out that since June 1975 the work force has been reduced by almost 3,000. The total industry work force has declined since 1966 from 21,000 men to a position where today there are slightly more than 10,000 waterside workers. The cost of removing men from the industry has not been light. There was, however, an acceptance by those in the industry that the level of the labour force had to be reduced and I would point out that this reduction was achieved without disruption of any kind. 
Other major problems identified by  Mr Justice  Northrop were referred to the National Stevedoring Industry Conference which was convened under the chairmanship of  Sir Richard  Kirby in December last.  Sir Richard  brought the parties together and the Conference considered how a framework might be developed within which the problems could be dealt with and the overall performance of the industry improved. The Conference was attended by the stevedoring employers, the Waterside Workers Federation, the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and my Department. As well all other interested organisations were invited to make submissions to the Conference and join with the Conference in considering particular problem areas. A detailed report of the Conference was presented to me on 5 April this year. (  Quorum formed).  The report set out what the Conference agreed as the best means of improving aspects such as flexibility of labour, consultative arrangements, industrial relations and the position of small ports. The Government has broadly endorsed the findings of the report as part of a total package which is to constitute the new industry framework. There is no doubt that the Conference was successful in coming to grips with many complex problems and in proposing practical and detailed measures to bring about improvements. 
While the National Stevedoring Industry Conference was proceeding,  Mr Neil  Stevens, a financial consultant, expert in matters associated with stevedoring industry funding, prepared for my Department a detailed report on the financial affairs of the industry.  His  report dealt with proposed means of providing central funding arrangements for on-going commitments in the industry as well as recovery of the industry deficit and his report has enabled particular attention to be paid to the position of the smaller regional ports. The Government also endorsed in principle  Mr Stevens'  recommendations. 
I now wish to provide a brief outline of some of the features of the new arrangements and how it is proposed they will operate. 
Improved Utilisation of the Labour Force: The report of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference provides means whereby labour currently held in various pool situations will be distributed to operational employers. Procedures have been agreed also to review and redistribute labour on a regular basis. The parties also recognised that additional measures are required to meet the fluctuating labour needs of the industry without resort to recruitment on every occasion. Accordingly, the new arrangements will involve the provision of supplementary labour units- these units will comprise workers to be employed on a casual basis and they will be utilised to complement the existing base labour force in the major ports. 
As well, when operational needs demand it, additional working time of the base labour force will be available to the extent of an additional shift per week and the extension of all shifts to complete a vessel which is to finish and sail. These measures together with the use of the supplementary labour force represent a valuable increase in the available hours of work at times when they are most needed. 
In the new arrangements all surplus labour of any employer shall be made available for use by all other employers in the port. This is a new concept which has the full support of all parties. It represents a gain of some magnitude and will result in substantial savings in the industry. 
If operated efficiently the transfer of labour arrangements between companies will enable the elimination of locked up idle time; more efficient and productive use of the labour; and reduce the turn around time of vessels in port. 
These arrangements will be implemented under the surveillance of co-ordinating committees established at both the port and federal level. These committees will comprise representatives of the relevant employers and the Federation and other interested parties such as the relevant port authorities will join with these committees in consideration of matters of concern to them. 
Improved Industrial Relations:  Mr Justice  Robinson and Commissioner Neil of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission were involved with the National Stevedoring Industry Conference in considering ways of bringing about improvements in industrial relations in this industry. The industry parties accepted that the high incidence of disputes at the job level was a reflection on the efficiency of the existing dispute settlement procedures. A major deficiency was identified as being the lack of job conciliators to speedily convene meetings of the parties when disputes arose. The existing procedures for some time have provided for the use of job conciliators but until the Conference no agreement could be reached as to their appointment. 
In the National Stevedoring Industry Conference report the parties reaffirmed the need for such conciliators to be appointed and further agreed that where the parties themselves were in dispute on this matter those appointments would be made through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 

 Mr Justice Robinson has since held a series of conferences with the parties and agreement has now been reached in respect of persons nominated as port conciliators. When the legislation comes into force these appointments will be made and the conciliators will be available to work with the parties in preventing and settling disputes and providing assistance to the Commission where this is needed. 
Consultative Arrangements: The National Stevedoring Industry Conference report proposes the establishment of a Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council. The Council is to be comprised of representatives of the major industry parties and significant other interest groups concerned with industry, overseas trade and cargo handling. The Department of Transport and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations will be represented on the Council and the  Chairman  of the Council will be appointed by the Government. The Council's objectives will be to provide a forum for discussion and an opportunity for communication between governments, the industry parties and other community interests. Through the  Chairman  of the Council all concerned will be able to bring to the attention of the Government or other Council members any matter aimed at bringing about improvements in the industry. 
The Interests of Smaller Ports: It has always been the concern of the Government that m any new arrangements proposed for the industry the special interests of the smaller ports should not be subjugated to the needs of the major ports. Under the new arrangements there will be an opportunity for port authorities to join with the direct industry parties in considering matters of concern to them. The Association of Port and Marine Authorities advised the National Conference of its wish to do this and since then the Association has met with the employers and the Federation and there is now a very clear understanding that at both the Federal and the port level there will be a continuing involvement of the port authorities in the affairs of the industry where their interests are concerned. 
Most importantly measures have been taken to protect the interests of the smaller ports through the proposed new funding arrangements. Because of the nature of the smaller ports, their location and methods of operation, it has been seen as desirable that the central funding arrangements should continue to apply in much the same way as is presently the case. The new funding arrangements will ensure that the costs for the smaller ports are retained at very much the same level as they are now. 
Recovering the Deficit: The accumulated deficit of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, in the main, relates to the future long service leave entitlements for waterside workers. It has been recognised that the most appropriate means of ensuring that funds are collected so that these entitlements can be met is through a statutorily backed levy. That levy will be imposed in respect of tonnage of cargo handled by waterside workers and special provisions have been made to ensure that local cargo and cargo of a bulk nature will be subject to lesser amounts of levy. These and other funding proposals are in accordance with the report made by  Mr Stevens. 
The new arrangements now proposed for the industry are not merely a series of measures aimed at overcoming some of the industry's problems; rather they represent a total framework within which new problems can be faced and genuine improvement in the industry's performance brought about. That framework includes the agreement that has emerged from the National Stevedoring Industry Conference, the new funding arrangements and the increased involvement of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission.  (Quorum formed).  The way has also been opened for the many other interests in the community who are concerned with developments on the waterfront to exercise an influence on the course of events. The new arrangements envisage the industry parties assuming more direct responsibility and at the same time the Government itself will maintain an influence on what happens in the industry. 
The Government's influence is designed to be a positive one and the potential for that influence can be seen in the following elements. The National Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council will be under the chairmanship of a government appointee; it will report to the Government on developments in the industry and the Government will be represented on the Council. The funding arrangements for the industry will be the responsibility of the proposed Stevedoring industry Finance Committee. That Committee will also be chaired by a government appointee. The level of industry charges will be subject to the approval of Government and the financial accounting of the Committee will be in accordance with the requirements of the Auditor-General. Reports of the activities of the Committee will be available to Parliament. 
The increased involvement of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will assist in ensuring that industrial relations in the industry can improve and the widening of the jurisdiction of the Commission will allow it to be involved in matters such as port quotas, supplementary labour and other matters which were formerly associated with the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. It is proposed also that when the new arrangements have been operating for a reasonable time they will be subject to a review which will enable the Government to determine how effective the changed administrative, financial and industrial relations arrangements have been. I envisage that this review should take place in approximately 12 months time. 
I now propose to discuss each of the Bills so that members will have the opportunity to identify how the proposed package of legislation relates to the totality of the new arrangements. I now propose to deal with each of the Bills. 
The Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Bill 
This is a Bill designed to provide a smooth and efficient transition from the present system regulated by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. To achieve this the Bill provides for a transitional period to commence on a date to be proclaimed and to terminate on a day fixed by notice in the  Gazette.  On proclamation the other Bills associated with this Bill will also commence to operate. At the commencement of the transitional period most of the responsibilities and functions will be transferred from the Authority. During the transitional period however, the Authority will continue to exist to carry out certain limited functions and so much of the current stevedoring industry legislation is continued as will enable the Authority to carry out those functions. 
The Bill provides that at the end of the transitional period all assets and liabilities of the Authority will be vested in the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee established by the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee Bill. The Bill also provides for the preparation by the Authority of reports on its operations up to the end of the transitional period. 
Stevedoring Industry Charge (Termination) Bill 1977 
The amendment to the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act contained in this Bill ensures that the operation of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act ceases before the Stevedoring Industry Levy Act commences to operate. The Bill further provides that the requirement that employers furnish returns under the Act will no longer apply in respect of a period for which the charge is not payable. 
Stevedoring Industry Levy Bill 1977 
This Bill establishes a system of levies on employers of waterside workers consistent with new arrangements of which I have spoken earlier which are to be introduced in this industry. There has been for many years a stevedoring industry charge established by legislation. It has imposed a charge on each manhour of employment of registered waterside workers with two prime purposes-to provide funds for the operation of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and to make payments to waterside workers which largely derive from awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Stevedoring Industry Levy Bill will continue that concept though in somewhat more limited fashion. The industry will be responsible largely for its own funding arrangements in the future, however, there has emerged in recent years what has been termed the industry deficit and that has to be funded. Thus, the Bill makes provision for special levies to be imposed in respect of the employment of waterside workers in the loading and unloading of cargo. A reduced rate will apply to the loading of local cargo and in the case of bulk cargo handled by waterside workers a surcharge will be imposed on the manhours worked. These levies will produce funds to defray the so-called industry deficit. 
I would draw to the House 's attention that it is intended that these levies designed to defray the industry deficit will have a limited life. By clause 10 of the Bill they will cease to operate when the Minister notifies their cessation in the  Gazette.  These levies have been fixed in the expectation that they will last for a period of about six years. In addition to the special levies this Bill deals with general levies which will be imposed on employers to cover their contribution to the Stevedoring Employees Retirement Fund and enable specified payments to be made in respect of the employment of waterside workers in the small ports. Like the existing statutory charge these levies will be based on manhours worked. 
The levy in respect of waterside workers on weekly hire, that is, those generally employed in the major ports, is set at $1. This means that apart from obligations in respect of the Employees Retirement Fund and certain miscellaneous matters the employers in the major ports will be required in future to provide their own funding outside the statutory levy. As to waterside workers not on weekly hire, that is, those generally employed in the smaller ports, the levy is set at $4.85. This retains the arrangement that presently exists whereby the major obligations of employers in the smaller ports are to be met from central funding arrangements through the statutory levy. This is a practical way of providing assistance to the employers in the smaller ports and aims to ensure that the cost structure in these ports is not adversely affected. The amounts of levies that are to apply in the industry on the introduction of the new arrangements are fixed in the Bill now before the House. It will be a responsibility of the proposed Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee to review the level of these levies from time to time and to make recommendations. Changes to the levies cannot be made without the approval of the Minister. 
Stevedoring Industry Levy Collection Bill 1977 
This Bill should be read in conjunction with the Levy Bill. It provides the machinery by which the levies set out in that Bill are to be collected. In many respects the provisions of the Bill are very similar to those of the existing Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act which has operated since 1947. However, it has been cast so that in addition to levies on manhours worked there will now be a surcharge on bulk cargo and levies on tonnage of cargo where handled by waterside workers. 
The essential framework of the Bill centres around returns which must be furnished to my Department at regular intervals by employers of waterside workers and on which payment of the levy is based. The employers who will be liable for levies will be restricted to those who participate in the scheme of the new arrangements which has emerged out of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference and who employ waterside workers whose names are on a register maintained by the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee. 
Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee Bill 1977 
The main purpose of establishing the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee is to ensure public scrutiny of the large sums of money that Will be forthcoming from the employers by way of levies to be imposed. I should emphasise that the Committee will not be a body with an administrative back-up of its own. It is intended that the day to day administration of its responsibilities will be carried out on behalf of the Committee by the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. The Committee will be a part time body consisting of representatives of the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Australian Shipping Commission and the Waterside Workers' Federation. Its  chairman  will be appointed by the Government and I will be announcing this appointment shortly. 
The functions of the Committee will be to make payments, for example, to the Stevedoring Employees Retirement Fund; payments in respect of providing amenities to waterside workers; payments to the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour as to costs that it will have to bear in connection with the organisation of performance of stevedoring operations and payments arising out of award obligations on employers as to waterside workers. It will reimburse the Commonwealth for expenditure incurred in payments to the port conciliators who are to be appointed under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration (Amendment) Bill. 
Beyond this,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  there are the usual provisions one would expect to find in a Bill of this kind. For instance, the Committee will be given the power to borrow but only with the approval of the Treasurer. It will be able to keep accounts subject to the scrutiny of the AuditorGeneral. There is also a provision requiring the Committee to furnish to the Minister such relevant information as is required. The Committee will be required to produce an annual report which will be tabled before Parliament. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration (Amendment) Bill (No. 2) 1977 
Save for one small amendment all the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to be effected by this Bill are to Division 4 Part III of the Act. This Division was inserted in the Act in 1956 and provides the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with its jurisdiction for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes and industrial questions involving that area of the waterfront in which work is performed by members of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Macphee)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations speaking without limitation of time.  (Quorum formed). 
I thank the House for agreeing to the last motion. The Division does not cover operations in the stevedoring industry outside of the regulatory scheme set up by the existing legislation and there will be no change to this concept as a result of the Bill which I am now introducing. Thus, the Bill contains provisions perpetuating definitions of certain terms which now appear in the principal Act by reference to the stevedoring industry legislation. The fact that Division 4 of Part III of the Act now applies to the traditional area of work of the Waterside 
Workers Federation is being confirmed two ways- by changing the title of the Division and by inserting a new section 8 1  A. 
A most significant provision of the Bill is that it will widen the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to enable the Commission to deal with such matters as the question of quotas' for waterside workers, the employment of a supplementary labour force and recruitment of waterside workers. The Bill also makes provision for the appointment of port conciliators. I am particularly pleased to see this provision there for it marks out that parties have accepted the idea that the Commission may appoint these officials whose functions will be to attempt to reconcile the parties to the industry in on the job dispute situations that might arise. 
The Bill also makes provision for the establishment of Federal and Port Co-ordinating Committees as envisaged by the National Stevedoring Industry Conference Report. The membership of these committees will be appointed by a person to be designated by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The primary responsibility of these committees will be to monitor day to day matters such as transfer of labour, supplementary labour units et cetera. They will have power to co-opt outside interests from time to time and as indicated earlier I expect they will pay particular attention to the need for consultation with and the involvement of the various port authorities around the Australian coast. 
I said earlier that we were ensuring that Division 4 of Part III of the principal Act remains the area from which the Commission draws its jurisdiction as to disputes involving the traditional area of work of the Waterside Workers Federation. Thus, the bulk handling operations which were never within the regulatory scheme established by the 1956 legislation and which have never been involved in Division 4 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will still be excluded from that area of the Act's operation. 
The industries within which the bulk handling operations take place are of enormous significance to the Australian economy. These operations now account for 70 per cent of all Australian cargoes. Over the years these operations have been carried out largely free from industrial disruption. The companies concerned with these bulk handling operations have placed great emphasis on the contribution that the existing working arrangements within their establishments has made to their ability to function efficiently and to meet contract deadlines. The Government believes it would be undesirable to alter the factual situation now obtaining. The Government wants these operations to proceed free from the fear of industrial disruption and in the most efficient manner possible. It will therefore maintain the closest surveillance of the working operations of these industries to ensure that their efficiency is not impeded. 
Port Statistics Bill 1977 
The purpose of the Bill is to authorise the Secretary of the Department of Transport to collect stevedoring and related port statistics. Honour-  able members may be aware that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority currently collects a wide range of statistics on cargo movements, labour associated with loading and unloading cargo and vessel movements. As well as being used by the Authority, these statistics are also used by the stevedoring industry at large, Commonwealth departments and a variety of commercial and research organisations. The Commonwealth department with the major interest in the retention of these statistics is the Department of Transport. Accordingly, the Government has decided that when the new arrangements come into effect, the Department of Transport will take over responsibility for collection of stevedoring and related port statistics. This requires legislative powers to collect statistics to replace those powers currently contained in the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956. The Port Statistics Bill provides suitable statutory backing to enable continued collection of the statistics now available to Government through the Authority. 
A careful reading of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956 will reveal that there are few limitations on the Authority's powers to obtain or disclose information. The Government considers that such wide powers are not appropriate under the new arrangements. Consequently, much of the Bill is concerned with defining the limits of powers which had been left undefined in the existing arrangements. At present there is some duplication between statistics collected by State port authorities and the Commonwealth. In recognition of this, my colleague the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has had discussions with State Ministers, meeting as the Marine and Ports Council of Australia, on the possibility of rationalising statistics collections. A Marine and Ports Council Working Party is investigating this matter. The Bill provides a basis for the exchange of information between the Commonwealth and the States in anticipation of reaching suitable arrangements. 
In essence, the Bill seeks to transfer statistics collection powers from the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to the Department of Transport. At the same dme the opportunity is being taken to introduce appropriate constraints on the use of these powers. 
Finally, there is one additional matter on which I wish to comment. The staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has always carried out its duties in a most responsible fashion. In earlier speeches to the Parliament I have referred to the contribution made by the staff of the Authority and I place on record the Government's appreciation of what has been done by it particularly during the last 1 8 months. During that time when the new arrangements for the stevedoring industry have been developed the task of the staff has been a most difficult one. Nevertheless the staff has acted to ensure that its responsibilities have been carried out with the maximum efficiency and co-operation. As well the staff has provided valuable technical assistance and advice on the operation of the new arrangements. I regard its efforts as commendable indeed. The pivotal Bill in the package of legislation which will allow the introduction of the new arrangements is of course the Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The essential purpose of this Bill is simply to ensure that the existing statutory charge applying in the industry is discontinued before the new statutory levy to which I referred in my second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Bill commences to operate. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill establishes a system of levies to be imposed on employers of waterside workers as part of the proposed new arrangements for the stevedoring industry to which I referred in my second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill should be read in conjunction with the Stevedoring Industry Levy Bill which I have just introduced. It provides the machinery by which the levies set out in that Bill are to be collected. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill establishes a Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee which will be responsible for the disbursement of funds collected through the stevedoring industry levy as I outlined in my second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill makes a number of amendments to Division 4 of Part III of the Act necessary to achieve the Government's objectives associated with proposed new arrangements for the stevedoring industry as outlined in my second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As I outlined in my second reading speech on the Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Act, this Bill makes provisions for the collection of stevedoring and related port statistics. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will recall, ILO Convention No. 111.- Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) 1958- is in such a form that it is not mandatory for a ratifying country to enact legislation in order to implement its provisions. 
Accordingly, when Australia ratified this Convention in 1973, the National and State Employment Discrimination Committees were established shortly thereafter, on a nonlegislative basis, in order to give effect to its provisions. 
As the honourable member will also recall, this nonlegislative approach which was adopted by the Commonwealth Government in 1973, had the support of all the State governments,' as well as of the national employers' organisations and the trade union movement, and the tripartite membership of the Employment Discrimination Committees reflected this tripartite support. 
Moreover, because these Employment Discrimination Committees were established by the Commonwealth, with the full support of all the States, there were no problems involving jurisdiction and no demarcation disputes, while the participation of non-governmental representatives, nominated by the employers and the unions, enabled the Committees to resolve complaints of discrimination which they received in a way which may not have been possible if their membership had been restricted to the governmental level. 
However, since the Employment Discrimination Committees were established, the Commonwealth has enacted its Racial Discrimination Act 1975 and, in addition, the New South Wales Anti-Discrimination Act 1977, the Victorian Equal Opportunity Act 1977, as well as the South Australian Sex Discrimination Act 1975 and Racial Discrimination Act 1976, have been adopted. As all this legislation applies, inter alia, to the proscription of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, at least on the grounds of race and sex, it does provide some legislative basis for giving effect to some of the provision of ILO Convention No. 1 1 1 . 
At the same time, this legislation, which is mutually inconsistent, and not fully in accord with the provisions of ILO Convention No. Ill, even in respect of race and sex, has given rise to questions of jurisdiction, to demarcation disputes, as well as to problems of duplication, overlap and uncertainty, as well as to confusion among the Australian community, and very real difficulties from the point of view of the Employment Discrimination Committees. 
In these circumstances, and given these recent legislative developments, I am examining the desirability of discussion with the States, as well as with the national employers' organisations and the trade union movement (through the National Labour Consultative Council), on the possibility of providing a legislative basis for the National and State Employment Discrimination Committees. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question. The information provided is in respect of Public Service Act staff including staff of authorities which are in statutory relationship with the Board, except where otherwise stated. 
1 ) and (2) The information sought is provided in the following tables: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information has been provided by the Public Service Board and is in respect of permanent officers of the Australian Public Service employed under the Public Service Act It does not cover exempt or temporary employees whose termination of service records are held by individual departments, nor does it cover Government employees outside of the Public Service Act. 
The numbers of permanent officers dismissed by the Public Service Board were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)1 have been advised that  Mr Perriman  did not, in so many words, 'request'  Mr Toomer  to ring him in Canberra, but  Mr Perriman  did, on more than one occasion, invite  Mr Toomer  to do so if he wished to raise any matters concerning the inquiry.  Mr Toomer  did in fact make telephone contact with  Mr Perriman  on several occasions, and all were directly relevant to the inquiry. 
and (3)1 refer the honourable member to the answer of my colleague the Minister for Health to question No. 1 127  (Hansard,  5 October 1977, pages 1702-3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Statutory provisions place the responsibility for filling vacancies in a Department with the Permanent Head who is required to comply with the criteria for selection specified in section SO of the Public Service Act. Promotions are made on the basis of relative efficiency, and the Board does not have a role in affecting such selections. Indeed, as a general policy, the Board encourages the mobility of officers. Departments have the necessary authority to arrange interdepartmental transfers of officers and there is provision, under section 52 of the Public Service Act, for reference to the Board if any party to such transfers objects. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1975-Additions 8,957, Deletions 7,820; 1976-Addi- tions 6,463, Deletions 6,502, 
(2) 
This information is not retained in Australian Electoral Office records. 
Pursuant to secton 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918, I present a copy of the report, with a map by the Distribution Commissioners for New South Wales, showing the boundaries of each proposed division, together with copies of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
Ordered that the report and map be printed. 
Pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918, I present a copy of the report, with map by the Distribution Commissioners for Victoria, showing the boundaries of each proposed division, together with copies of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners. I anticipate that bulk supplies of the report will be available in time for them to be distributed to all members and senators tomorrow, Wednesday, 26 October 1977. In the meantime, copies of the report have been distributed to Victorian members and senators and further copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and in the Table Office. However, I can say that the Commissioners have made no substantive changes to their initial proposals. The one minor change is in relation to the mapping delineation of the Seymour subdivision, to make it clear that the town of Avenel is not split between the proposed division of Bendigo and Indi. 
-At the time this piece of legislation was introduced and passed the Government said that it would be proclaimed when circumstances so warranted; or words very similar to that. It is very severe legislation, designed to cope with situations in which people who are paid by the public- by the taxpayers- to provide a service to the public no longer provide it or provide perhaps only a portion of it. 

 Mr Scholes- So that Ministers can sack people who disagree with them? Bjelke-Petersen legislation. 
I am interested to hear the honourable member for Corio interject about the capacity to sack people. Of course, that capacity has been and remains with private enterprise at all times. I believe that there is an even greater obligation on a government to take the responsibility to see that those people who are paid by the taxpayers provide a service to the taxpayers. As I have said, the Government regards this legislation as conferring a power which is required by governments and necessary for them to have. It will be used with discretion when circumstances warrant it. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on special assistance for States 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(6) 

 Mr L. B. Woodward, First Assistant Commissioner, Level 3, Public Service Board;  Mr G.  Balfour, Acting Assistant Secretary, Level 2, Department of Finance;  Mr J.  P. Walshe, M.B.E., Assistant Secretary, Level 1, Department of Foreign Affairs;  Mr G.  Johnson, Assistant Secretary, Level 1 , Department of Administrative Services. 
To examine and report on proposals for oversea visits by Commonwealth Government officials or other individuals travelling overseas on Government business either wholly or partly at Government expense. 
The Office of the Public Service Board. 
The Prime Minister. 
) Yes, with certain exceptions- see answer to ( 7 ) below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
An amount of $59,090.50 to cover project costs was approved on 27 September 1977. A further $1,092.00 was granted for travel expenses associated with the project 
No. The amount approved is $7,142 less than the amount sought. Some items sought are not covered in the guidelines for the administration of the Scheme. These included pool tables, table tennis equipment, tea and coffee facilities, staff advertising and certain insurances. The amount suggested for telephone calls was also considered excessive ana a claim for tutor's fees was not considered reasonable. 
State committees may approve projects involving less than $25,000 and this is sufficient in most instances. State committees also make recommendations on proposals in excess of this amount, as in this particular case, with the final decisions being taken centrally. 
State committees may discuss submissions with sponsoring organisations if they consider it will help in clarifying aspects of a submission. In addition, it sometimes happens that a sponsoring organisation requests an interview with the committee and this request would usually be granted. However, the most common practice is for discussions to be held between sponsoring organisations and departmental officers with the aim of producing a submission which is acceptable in terms of the aims of the Scheme and the guidelines for its administration. These processes of consultation are an important feature of the Scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) As far as I am aware, no recent quantitative information is available. The 1971 Census, which provides the latest figures available, showed that there were 5,099 computer programmers and 2,277 data system analysts in the labour force. Separate figures are not available for other computer personnel. My Department compiles regular qualitative assessments of the labour demand and supply situation for computer operating personnel in Australia. At present labour demand for experienced operators, although small, exceeds supply. The rate of computer installation is expected to increase over the next 2-3 years and there will be more demand for experienced personnel. There are not many positions advertised for trainees and competition at this level is very keen. Most employers prefer to train thenown operators and priority is usually given to people already within their organisations. 
As to the demand for computer programmers and systems analysts, there is an acute shortage of experienced personnel particularly in New South Wales and Victoria and this is likely to persist into the 1980s. There is an oversupply of inexperienced newly qualified computer programmers and this is unlikely to ease over the next 2 or 3 years. 
Without equating arrivals in Australia with recruitment from overseas, I can also say that between late 1975 and June 1977, 180 computer programmers and 171 systems analysts arrived in Australia. In these work categories, a minimum of 3 years' practical experience together with appropriate academic qualifications is required for immigration purposes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) Up to the end of August 1977,71 persons had been relocated under the Relocation Assistance Scheme in Queensland. Of these 41 persons were relocated from different areas within Queensland and 30 from outside Queensland. 
Expenditure under the Relocation Assistance Scheme is recorded against the State in which the applicant resides at the time of application. It would therefore require a good deal of work to obtain the total amount paid to persons relocated in Queensland. However assistance totalling 554,25 1 was paid to Queensland applicants up to the end of August 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2)  Mr J.  D. Norgard 's interim report to me on 7 February 1977 did not mention difficulties for CES staff in conducting three-way interviews with interpreters and nonEnglish speaking clients using conventional telephones and did not specifically recommend installation of conference phone facilities. 
Independently of  Mr Norgard  my Department had planned the installation of dual handset telephones to assist CES staff in conducting three-way interviews with interpreters and non-English speaking clients. By September of this year, my Department had installed dual telephone sets in South Australia at Adelaide, Edwardstown, Elizabeth, Enfield, Morphett Vale, Norwood, Port Adelaide, Port Augusta, Renmark, Salisbury, Unley and Whyalla OCES. Arrangements are now in hand to install similar telephones in the other States where they are necessary. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is twofold. In the first place, an amendment is proposed to section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 to repeal sub-section (4). The second purpose is to put beyond question the validity of the existing redistribution procedures insofar as they affect the current redistribution of the State of Western Australia. Honourable members may recall that section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides for a redistribution when the Chief Australian Electoral Officer's determination has resulted in an alteration in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for a State. It also authorises a redistribution whenever in one-fourth of the divisions of a State the number of electors differs from the quota by one-tenth more or by one-tenth less; and at such other times as the Governor-General thinks fit. 
Sub-section (4) provides that after a redistribution has been put into effect in a State a period of seven years must elapse before a further redistribution can be made by virtue of the one-fourth and one-tenth circumstance to which I have just referred. The current redistribution in relation to Western Australia has proceeded on the basis that section 25 (4) would not prevent a redistribution within the sevenyear period if there were other reasons for doing so such as that redistributions were in hand in all other States. A legal challenge has now been made to the validity of the current redistribution of Western Australia. Broadly, it appears to be claimed that in the factual situation as it applied in Western Australia, where one-fourth of the divisions differed from the quota by one-tenth or more, it was not possible for the GovernorGeneral to direct a redistribution in 1977 because, as there had been a redistribution in Western Australia in 1974, the seven-year barrier must apply. 
It was made perfectly clear during the debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill in February this year that the intention was that the Governor-General, acting on the advice of the Executive Government, would reserve the option of proclaiming a redistribution at any time he thought fit despite the seven-year provision. Nevertheless it does appear that there may be some doubt as to whether the legislation as currently drafted reflects this intention. Our advice is that the most appropriate way to overcome any problem which may exist is to repeal the seven-year provision contained in subsection (4). This would place the issue beyond doubt for the future. At the same time action also needs to be taken to ensure the validity of the current redistribution process in Western Australia in respect of which the report of the Distribution Commissioners has already been tabled. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Last July, the Government took a major initiative in the international trade sphere with the appointment of a Minister for Special Trade Negotiations to be responsible for high level trade negotiations with the European Economic Community. The new arrangements envisaged that the Minister would lead a small negotiating team, consisting primarily of officers seconded from other departments. However, the requirements of section 64 of the Constitution and of the Public Service Act are such that it was necessary to formally create a Department of the Special Trade Negotiator and a position of Secretary to that Department. In recognition of the special relationship between the new Department and the Department of Overseas Trade, the Secretary of the latter Department,  Mr D.  H. McKay, O.B.E., has been also acting as Secretary to the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. 
After the selection procedures in section- 54A of the Public Service Act had been followed, it was determined that  Mr McKay-  who is an 'established candidate' in relation to the vacancy, within the meaning of section 54 of the Public Service Act-should be permanently appointed to the new office in addition to continuing to hold office as Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade. It is considered desirable that there should be express legislative backing for this course of action, m order that the legal position is beyond doubt. 
The Bill provides that the person for the time being holding the office of Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade may also hold or act in the office of Secretary to the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator, and for a person acting in the office of Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade to also act in the office of the Secretary to the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. Provision is also made that, while a person is holding or acting in both offices, no remuneration will be payable m respect of the second office, and that if a person who holds both offices ceases to hold the first office, that person also ceases to hold the second office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
It has been drawn to my attention that comments of the kind the honourable gentleman mentioned were made by the Leader of the Opposition in a recent interview, I think, on  This Day Tonight.  I must admit that I have been astounded by those comments. When the Arbitration Commission sat as a reference bench early in October- honourable members will remember that that was after proceedings before  Mr Commissioner  Vosti had failed to produce a settlement- the Commonwealth Government intervened before the Full Bench, as I emphasise was its right, and participated in the proceedings there. A considerable part of those proceedings of course was in private conference between the State Electricity Commission and the unions concerned. The Commonwealth, as an intervener, was not admitted to those proceedings. The statement of this Bench did not produce a return to work. Then an anomalies conference was convened. I am pleased to inform the House and the honourable member that the Commonwealth Government was represented at all stages of the anomalies conference and supported the Victorian Government in its submissions that no anomaly existed. 
Arising out of this conference, the matter was then sent to a Full Bench of the Commission to examine in detail the union grounds for a wage increase based on the situation involving possible anomalies within the SEC pay structure itself. Again the Commonwealth intervened, as of right, and made submissions to the Full Bench in support of the Victorian Government. The decision of this Bench was that no wage increases were warranted on the grounds which the unions had put forward. At a subsequent stage the dispute was referred by the  President  of the Commission to Commissioner Mansini to investigate the prospects of a work value case. I am pleased to inform the House that the Commonwealth has sought leave and has been granted leave to intervene in these proceedings which are still in progress. Incidentally, at one stage of these proceedings the Commonwealth supported the Victorian Government's application for a reference bench to be reconvened. 
The most charitable view which can be taken of the comments by the Leader of the Opposition is that he did not know what he was talking about and had not bothered to find out. An alternative explanation is that he had bothered to find out but had suffered a remarkable lapse of memory. Yet another explanation is that he deliberately tried to present false information to the public. As there were other examples of that in the interview, I think that is probably the most likely explanation. 
In relation to the first part of the question, that is, the number of persons unemployed as registered at each Commonwealth Employment Office, it is my recollection- I will check this after Question Time- that I answered that since the interim Norgard recommendations had been accepted and more equipment was available in employment offices for copying records and things of that kind, honourable members who wanted information relating to particular offices should ask those offices for the details required. A great deal of time is involved in my Department if the information has to come back to central office and then be collated to be put into answers to questions. As I say, I shall check the accuracy of that information after Question Time. With regard to the date for the publication of CES figures on employment, as usual they will come out on the Friday following the Friday nearest the end of the month. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is mainly technical. In terms of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973, the Grants Commission will have one too few members after 30 November to exercise its functions under the Act. As it is not intended to appoint any further members for the time being, the legislation now proposed will have the effect of removing this impediment. At the sams time, the opportunity has been taken of reducing the maximum number of members to four in accordance with the Government's recent decisions to that effect. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? I thank the House. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Stevedoring Industry Charge (Termination) Bill, the Stevedoring Industry Levy Bill, the Stevedoring Industry Levy Collection Bill, the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the Port Statistics Bill as they an associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the seven Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply-I thank honourable members who have contributed to this debate on a very complex subject. Stevedoring has been an area that has troubled successive governments throughout the years. Now this Government has finally grappled with the problem in a realistic way. I think the speakers in this debate have acknowledged that fact. The approach now proposed will put responsibility where it belongs, and that is clearly on the industry parties. It will draw into the affairs of the industry other parties concerned with stevedoring, such as the Australian Shippers' Council, port authorities and even wider community interests. It will involve more positively the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It allows a positive government influence which will enable genuine safeguards without restrictive interference in the normal operations of the industry. It recognises that the new arrangements were settled and agreed by all the major parties in the industry after protracted, detailed negotiations. 
I think that these new arrangements, given goodwill- in most areas of industrial relations that is an essential ingredient- can lead to substantial improvements in the performance of the industry, to better industrial relations and to lower costs. The Parliament and the community will have the opportunity to see how the new arrangements work because, as I have indicated already to the Parliament, a review will take place within about 12 months. This aspect was picked up by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  The honourable member for Gellibrand made the interesting comment that the Opposition had not abandoned nationalisation as a possible approach to the problems of the industry. I remind him that the review which I mentioned a moment ago will ensure that the Government maintains proper surveillance during this interim period. The honourable member for Casey expressed concern that if the Government's present proposals do not work we would have to look to alternatives. I make the same comment about the review in relation to his remarks. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  made some substantial criticisms of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I was surprised to hear them because I would have expected that he, with his background, would have known a little more about the industry and would have known sufficient not to say that the Authority had fined its own employees. That is not so. The Authority is not the employer of the people concerned. The operational stevedores are the employers of the people concerned. So is the Stevedoring Employers of Australia Ltd. 
I would have thought the honourable member for Newcastle would have exhibited a little more detailed knowledge of the industry too. The honourable member for Cunningham should know that following the permanency arrangements waterfront labour was employed by operational stevedores and SEAL. In my view, the members of the staff of the Authority performed their duties with integrity for many years. I would especially pay tribute to their work during the very difficult time they have had in recent months, with depleted numbers of staff. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  made a very pertinent comment, I think, when he drew atention to the fact that both the employers and the unions involved in the industry opted for private enterprise in the industry. It is obvious from many comments coming from the Opposition that it is uncomfortable about that fact. The plain fact is that the unions prefer it, whether or not the Opposition likes it. The mechanisms which allow the industry to change for the better have been created. The procedures which enable the industry to go ahead have been endorsed. The way has been opened up for the industry parties to show the community that the approach that they wholeheartedly endorse is the right one. For our part, the Government's continuing involvement in the industry and its surveillance of the developments will be geared to ensuring that improvements take place. We will not hesitate to take any action to ensure that the objectives of the new arrangements are faithfully pursued and that the community benefits from what is now proposed. 
Finally, I thank most sincerely the officers of my Department who worked almost without pause since the Northrop report was received to help with and encourage the major changes in the stevedoring industry that are now put forward. It has indeed been a huge task. The Government, the Parliament and the industry owe much to three men in particular-  Mr Fogarty, Mr Maher  and  Mr Bekema  who between them have carried a great load for many months. The industry now has a tremendous opportunity to prove that it is worthy of the responsibility that it has been given. As I indicated earlier, the Government will be watching very closely developments in this industry in the coming months. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Total number 2 1 . The number, location and purpose of each library is detailed below: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is not the practice of this Government to give information which may have the effect of endangering security. The protection purposes of these vehicles will be obvious and I am sure the honourable member would not wish to press for the exposure of details which could give assistance to a potential attacker. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the end of August 1977 there were 12,224 Aboriginals registered with the CES as unemployed. 
The corresponding figure for end of September was 12,352. 
I shall bring the honourable member's suggestion to the notice of my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Service. 
Until the honourable gentleman brought these matters to my attention I had not been aware of them. Certainly the amendments which the Government has made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act relating to secret postal ballots and the regulations requiring prior notification of ballots to be conducted have as their central theme the giving to all members of registered organisations of a full and adequate opportunity to have their say in who shall represent them as their leaders. As these issues have been brought to my attention by the honourable gentleman I shall look into the suggestions that he has made. I am not quite sure what the powers of the Minister are in relation to the requests that the honourable gentleman has made. I will make immediate investigations to find out and I will let the honourable member know the results of those investigations as soon as I can. 
-Yes, the Government has noted the recommendation in the Norgard report about the use of automatic data processing in the running of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I am pleased to be able to inform the honourable member that the Government has sent a team overseas to examine the operation of this form of assistance in the employment services in the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada. The team is being led by an Assistant Secretary of my Department It also includes an official familiar with the CES operations and two other officers- one from the Public Service Board who is expert in automatic data processing. They will investigate, as I said, the use of ADP in the employment services of the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada to see whether its application in those places could have application in Australia. 

 Mr Norgard made the comment that the introduction of such a scheme would be expensive. He recommended that we look at the experience of other countries to see whether it would be feasible to introduce an existing system into the CES. The team will be away for a couple of months. It will report to the Government on the feasibility of using ADP in the CES on the lines of one of these overseas countries. The Government looks forward with a great deal of interest to receiving this report. 
I find it strange that the honourable member should apparently take objection to the Government trying to find jobs for school leavers. In view of the answer by the Prime Minister to the last question, the honourable gentleman does exhibit an entirely consistent line of argument with those of other members of his party. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members know, one of the steps in the process of re-distributing the electoral boundaries of a State is the determination of the quota of electors for each proposed division based on the whole number of electors in each State, as nearly as can be ascertained divided by the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for that State. In respect of the recently approved redistributions, the quota was determined as at 24 June 1977. The Government has just been advised that in one of the then divisions in New South Wales there was a continuing and cumulative error in the procedures for maintaining enrolment statistics. This was not an error in the maintenance of the electoral roll but in the enrolment statistics relating to it. As a result however, the enrolment statistics for the division of Berowra were, at the time of the determination of the quota, overstated by some 4,000. Consequently the State quota, on the basis of which the proposed enrolments of all divisions are fixed, was overstated approximately by 96. This in itself would not have been significant. However, all the overstatement related to the one division. In essence, the proposed division of Berowra was, on the basis of the statistics provided, thought by the Commissioners to contain some 71,000 electors. In fact, because of the divisional Returning Officer's error, the enrolment in terms of the true June figures, was of the order of 67,000. The Government, however, believes that, having been apprised of the error, it would be improper for it not to advise the Parliament. At the same time, because the Commissioners acted in good faith in respect of their deliberations and in the application of the required criteria, the Government believes also that the Parliament would want to ensure that its approval of the redistributions could not be ruled invalid because of a clerical error. 
This is the purpose of the Bill and it will apply to each of the redistributions approved by the Parliament. Honourable members will note that, apart from this special validation, the normal procedures required by the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 are being maintained and the electoral divisions determined for the States remain subject to the provision that they stand until altered in accordance with the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
I have noted the action of the Victorian Government. It will be supported by this Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 1 1 ) It has been established practice for ministerial releases to be available throughout all levels of the DepartmentCentral Office, Regional Offices and Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. This enables officers to be aware of the views expressed by the Minister which may bear on the Department's area of responsibility and ensures that releases are available for reference by interested persons outside the Department who would not normally receive copies. It is, of course, inevitable that since releases cover a wide range of issues, particular releases may be directly relevant only to the work of a limited number of officers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Many factors, including reduced demand and rising wage costs, have contributed to retrenchments in industries which have been the subject of inquiries by the Industries Assistance Commission. I am not aware of any available information which indicates that retrenchments could be solely attributed to recommendations of the IAC which the Government has adopted. 
I understand that the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs has advised that: 'Since the Commission was established on 1 January 1974, three Commissioners and two Associate Commissioners have travelled overseas. The Commissioners program for 1977-78 does not include any overseas travel by Commissioners or Associate Commissioners'. 
Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration: Implementation of Recommendations (Question No. 1511) 
by leave- It was announced on 28 July that the Government has accepted the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration that the Auditor-General should undertake responsibility for auditing the efficiency of Commonwealth departments and statutory authorities. The details of the system to be adopted are set out in an officials' report, which I table for the information of honourable members. 
The Government agrees with the Royal Commission that departmental management must continue to bear the main responsibility for ensuring that financial, manpower and other resources are properly and efficiently used. The Auditor-General, however, should be able to report to Parliament on departments, statutory authorities or government owned companies when he has formed the opinion that they could establish more adequate procedures for assessing the efficiency and economy of operations under their control; or that particular activities are not being conducted in an economical or efficient manner. 
The officials' report leaves open the arrangements for parliamentary consideration of efficiency reports from the Auditor-General. The Chairmen of both the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and the House of Representatives Expenditure Committee have indicated that they would wish to examine the reports, and that they would maintain the closest liaison in any such examination, in order to ensure that there is no unnecessary duplication of examination of departmental efficiency and expenditure. The Government intends to give this procedure a trial. 
Honourable members will also be interested in the provisions made concerning the AuditorGeneral's access to information and discretion to report. The Government recognises the importance of maintaining the traditional independence of that office. However it takes the view that because efficiency auditing breaks such new ground there is a need for procedures to restrict the publication of information of the kind set out in the report, if it were against the public interest, and to provide machinery for exemption of certain organisations- for example commercial enterprises- from the public reporting requirements when appropriate. The Government's intention is that legislation would be introduced to establish these procedures, which would take into account the recommendations made by the working party and precedents in other legislation. 
The report concludes that the development of the system of efficiency auditing should be gradual. There will be a learning process for all concerned. Hence, substantial and tangible benefits cannot be expected to emerge overnight. The Government accepts the need for a gradual approach and proposes that the system of efficiency auditing should be reviewed two years after the passage of the necessary amendments which will be made to the Audit Act. It is intended that honourable members should have an opportunity to debate the substance of the report when amendments to the Audit Act are introduced into the Parliament, as part of an amending Bill, to enable the implementation of efficiency audits. 
The Auditor-General will be asked to work in close consultation with the Public Service Board, which will have continuing responsibilities for efficiency improvement activities under section 17 of the Public Service Act, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, which carries responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of government programs, and the Department of Finance, which has general responsibility for financial administration. 
The Government is determined to ensure the work of the Public Service is carried out as efficiently as possible, and that any wasteful use of resources is eliminated. An independent and public audit of the administration's use of resources is an important way of ensuring this, and of improving the accountability of the Government to the Parliament and the people. I present the following paper: 
Commonwealth Departments and Statutory AuthoritiesEfficiency Audits- Ministerial Statement, 7 November 1 977. 
-The ballot for the Australian Workers Union election in the State of Queensland is currently proceeding, as the honourable gentleman has said, and I am informed that it will close in early December. I am further informed that as at 3 1 July of this year the audited membership of the northern district of the AWU, which is the district of the union that is concerning the honourable member, was 10,313 members. I have made inquiries of the electoral officer responsible for the ballot in Queensland and those inquiries indicate that at this stage 6,419 ballot papers have been posted to members. I am advised that on previous experience this discrepancy is not an unusual proportion. But inquiries have revealed that there were no butts of membership tickets at the State AWU office for collection by the electoral office as at 7 November. However, it is understood that an additional number of butts are being posted from the Townsville office of the union and should reach Brisbane today. 
I have confirmed that the electoral officer, in accordance with section 1 70a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act mentioned by the honourable member, has required that all butts be made available to him. The electoral office in fact has received no complaints at this stage from AWU members about the non-receipt of ballot papers. But any financial member of the AWU who feels that he is entitled to receive a ballot paper should immediately contact the electoral office in Brisbane. There is still time for him to do that and for his membership to be checked and papers issued before the closing of the ballot. If people feel that they have an entitlement to vote and have not yet received the opportunity to do so I advise them to contact the Brisbane electoral office immediately. 
Yes, I am aware of the recent misleading advertisement to which the honourable gentleman refers. I consider it a most serious matter that the Labor Party should so mislead the people of the Australian Capital Territory. The facts are that in the period from December 1972 to December 1975-the years of the Labor Administration- the level of unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory and Queanbeyan rose by approximately 224 per cent. Since December 1975 the level of unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory has risen by a further 83 per cent. These figures are publicly available and they give the lie to the claim made in the advertisement of the Labor Party candidate. I think it is not good enough that the Labor Party should mislead the people of the Australian Capital Territory in this way. I am pleased to take the opportunity to set the record straight. In addition let me say that unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory is still well below the national average. 
Until the honourable gentleman raised the matter I was not aware of the precise circumstances he has outlined. I shall bring this matter to the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services for urgent action, if such action is possible. I think that the distinguished service of the honourable member for Griffith to this Parliament over many years will enable him to be recognised amongst any crowd of candidates. 
On 1 June 1977 I tabled in Parliament a statement concerning a proposed inquiry into the case of  Mr W.  F. Toomer, an officer of the Department of Health in Western Australia. The statement indicated that two senior officers of the Public Service,  Mr R.  J. Perriman and  Mr G.  P. Temme, would, as delegates of the Public Service Board, undertake a full inquiry into  Mr Toomer  's case and report thereon to the Board. 
Messrs Perriman and Temme have now reported to the Board and, for the information of honourable members, I table a copy of that report. The Public Service Board has indicated that it is currently urgently examining the report and, on the resumption of Parliament after the election, I will table a further statement giving details of action taken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers relocated in  1976-77  were, in Canberra  28,  in Albury-Wodonga  16. 
On  19  December  1976,  I announced the Government's decision to relocate some  276  positions in several departments to Canberra from various capital cities in the interests of improved policy co-ordination. The staff involved were guaranteed at least  12  months notice of the move, and it is expected that the bulk of physical transfers of staff will take place at the end of the  1977  calendar year. Some staff have, however, decided to transfer earlier, and, with the agreement of departmental management,  15  officers had effected transfer by  30  June  19777  These are included in (i) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1)  Mr R.  Perriman and  Mr G.  Temme, who are currently conducting an inquiry into the case of  Mr Toomer,  did not participate in any quarantine inspection of the M.V.  Vishna Kalyan.  A special tour of inspection of the vessel was, however, undertaken by them in company with departmental officers on IS June 1977. 
Their purpose in visiting the vessel (which was not in fact chosen by them) was merely to obtain a background understanding of the circumstances in which the work of the ship inspection service is carried out. No quarantine ship inspection as such was undertaken while  Mr Perriman  and  Mr Temme  were on the ship. Rather, the visit was a demonstration of the parts of a vessel that would normally be examined in such an inspection, and of the nature of the work of a Quarantine Inspector or a Quarantine Assistant. 
No. The statement on this matter which I tabled in the House of Representatives on 1 June 1977  (Hansard,  page 228 1 ) indicated that the legal position was that an inquiry as envisaged by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration could not be properly conducted unless the body conducting the inquiry was vested with powers to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents, and unless that body, and persons appearing before it, had protection from liability for defamation. The statement further indicated that, apart from a Royal Commission (whose formal processes were considered to be quite inappropriate for an inquiry concerned with evaluation of personnel and administrative issues) there was no body independent of the Public Service which had such powers. 
The inquiry was accordingly established through delegation to Messrs Perriman and Temme by the Public Service Board of its powers under section 19 of the Public Service Act Through this process, the gentlemen (who are senior officers from outside the Board with no prior involvement in the case) have powers to summons any persons, take evidence on oath or affirmation, and require the production of documents, and they are not subject to direction by the Board in any way while exercising their delegated powers. Also, as indicated in the statement tabled in the House, it is intended that a report of the inquiry, incorporating recommendations, opinions and comments made by Messrs Perriman and Temme, and details of any action taken as a result, will be tabled in Parliament. 
I am satisfied that the conduct of Messrs Perriman and Temme while visiting the M.V.  Vishna Kalyan  was quite proper, and has not in any way compromised the independence of the inquiry. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Clunies Ross Estate workers are understood to receive payment i n units of token money, described as' rupiahs' , as follows: 
Headman, 20.00 per week 
Junior headman, 14.00 per week 
Foreman, 12.00 per week 
Skilled worker, 10.50 per week 
v) Semi-skilled worker, 7.50 per week 
vi) Apprentices/Youths, 4.50 per week 
Female workers, 6.00 per week. 
and (3) These tokens are not legal tender. I announced the Government's policy for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands on 16 June 1977 and that policy includes the replacement of tokens by Australian currency. It also includes the progressive introduction of a wages economy appropriate to Cocos conditions. 
I understand that the value attributed to these units by the Clunies Ross Estate in its transactions with Home Islanders is 3 units to the$A (buying) and 2.6 units to the$A (selling). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Commonwealth car fleet is used to the maximum extent practicable, working reasonable overtime. It would be clearly uneconomic to maintain sufficient Commonwealth cars to satisfy every request because of the peaks and troughs in demand. All work beyond the capacity of the Commonwealth fleet is allocated as follows: 
Canberra- To hire cars and taxis. 
Brisbane, Melbourne, Hobart, Adelaide, Perth- To taxis unless the booking is for a special car service in which case a hire car is chosen. 
Sydney- To hire cars. If, as occasionally happens, there are insufficient hire cars to accept all surplus work, taxis are used. No special car service requests are allocated to taxis except in an emergency. 
Outside normal working hours, weekends or holidays, a hire car or taxi may be used where it is clearly uneconomic to bring a Commonwealth driver on duty for a short period at penalty rates. 
In addition to driving Ministers, senators, members and officials, Commonwealth car drivers, in the course of their duties, are at times required to convey classified matter and to enter restricted areas such as munitions factories, Defence science and Service establishments. Hire-car and taxi drivers are not utilised to the same extent. 
Commonwealth drivers have been subject to regular health checks since 1957 based on a code of medical fitness for drivers adopted by the Australian Transport Advisory Council and endorsed by the Department of Health.. Physical standards for hire car and taxi drivers are determined by the appropriate State and Territorial authorities controlling such operations. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On the information currently available to me, there have been no further developments since 18 May 1976 in respect of Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and the United States of America in regard to both parts (a) and (b) of the honourable member's question. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On the basis of the information available to me, the situation in the countries concerned remains as given on 18 May 1976. 
However, the following recent developments in the United States of America and the United Kingdom, as reported to me, may be of interest to the honourable member. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Construction to House of Representatives Question No. 1793  (Hansard,  27 October 1977, pages 2579-80). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-charge of the CES office concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-charge of the CES office concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information. I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-charge of the CES office concerned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-Charge of the CES office concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-Charge of the  CES office concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-Charge of the CES office concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-Charge of the CES office concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-charge of the CES office concerned. 
Australian Wool Corporation: Interest on Borrowings  (Question No. 1697) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Information on elections conducted after 8 August 1 976 was provided in my answer to the honourable member's question on 15 September 1977  (Hansard,  House of Representatives 1977, page 1280). In that answer I indicated that the information for the period 1 January 1976 to 8 August 1976 would be forwarded to the honourable member when it became available. The information is now available and in accordance with previous practice has been placed in the House of Representatives Table Office. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Information on the number of apprenticeship applications received during each of the last 10 years is not available in my Department as applications to enter apprenticeship are lodged with the respective apprenticeship authority in each State. Normally these would considerably exceed the number of indentures entered into. 
1) (b) The numbers of apprenticeships entered into (ie, new indentures registered) during each of the last 10 years is contained in Attachment A, which also provide a breakdown (as requested in Question 3) for the major trades and on a State basis. 
(c) Similarly, the number of apprentices completing their trade training during each of the last 10 years is contained in Attachment B which also provides a breakdown (as requested in Question 3) for the major trades and on a State basis. Some caution should be exercised before any comparative analysis of these figures is made because I understand that procedures for recording completions have changed recently. It should also be noted that some distortion is present in the figures as a result of apprentices in both four and five year terms finishing their time in the same year. 
Information on how many persons left their trades because of retirement, resignation or death during each of the last 10 years is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has a Central Library in its head office in Melbourne with a branch in the Industrial Registry and a Regional Library in each of the six Australian State capital cities, and small collections in Darwin and Canberra. 
Their main purpose is to provide a Library based information service for the Department by collecting and disseminating the necessary published information for the Department' s research, policy-making and operational activities. 
The information in the form requested is not available. The following information is provided: 
Library expenditure on all categories of publications, including books and periodicals: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the O fficers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l), (2), (3) and (4) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officer-in-Charge of the CES office concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a Member of Parliament to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a Member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
In order to answer the honourable gentleman's question it is necessary to review briefly some recent history. The House will remember that last year the Government commissioned  Mr J.  D. Norgard to make a review of the Commonwealth Employment Service. Amongst his recommendations were some referring to the staffing of the CES. He recommended increases in staff and also recommended that some of that increase in staff come from outside the Australian Public Service to improve the diversity of skills and experience within the Service. Action to implement that recommendation is being taken. Only in New South Wales and Victoria has action been taken to prevent that being done. The prevention of that implementation has been caused by action taken by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. 
The purpose of staff recruitment is to achieve an improved placement ability by the Commonwealth Employment Service and to improve the administration of the many manpower programs which are part of its responsibilities these days. It is in the interests of all those looking for work, including those receiving unemployment benefit, that this ability of the CES to provide a proper service be implemented as soon as it can. The Government has been extremely patient on this issue but subsequent to a refusal by certain officers to proceed with the selection in respect of those applicants from outside the Public Service, those refusing this direction have been or are now in the process of being stood down. The numbers involved so far are about thirty. The Government will be seeking to bring this matter back before the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator as soon as possible, hopefully this afternoon, and if the matter is not resolved there the Government will be considering what further action to take in the Industrial Court. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
It is clear from the speech of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Young)  that the Australian Labor Party, having created the unemployment problem in Australia as a result of gross economic mismanagement and by refusing to support responsible economic and wages policy, would do it all again if it had the chance. As the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  pointed out a moment ago, there is an inescapable connection between wages policy, general economic policy, including public spending, and unemployment. We did not hear a word today from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  or the honourable member for Adelaide which gives the slightest indication that they have learnt this simple lesson. The Government is, of course, concerned about the employment situation in this country. One area that has been of special concern is that of youth unemployment where, I remind the House, as in other Western developed economies, the percentage of young people looking for work has increased as a proportion of those unemployed. At a time when they wish to enter the work force, the demand for their skills and abilities is often limited. In recognition of this problem, the Government has developed a comprehensive range of initiatives, each specifically designed to meet the needs of those unemployed within- I stress this- the context of the Government's overall economic strategy. The basis of that strategy, as the Treasurer has emphasised, is the containment of inflation. With inflation brought under control, we will have established the climate for a sustained recovery in economic activity leading to an expansion in permanent- I stress the word 'permanent'- employment opportunities and a consequent reduction in the overall level of unemployment. It is not expected, however, that these measures by themselves will provide a complete solution to unemployment. A substantial reduction in inflation is the essential precondition. That will take time, but the Government's policies are succeeding. Even the Opposition has given some acknowledgement of that fact. But our policies must continue to succeed or there cannot be any permanent improvement in the employment situation. Our concern at the current level of unemployment, particularly amongst young people, has been demonstrated, as I mentioned a moment ago, by the introduction of a number of initiatives. For example, there has been particular emphasis in the field of labour market training, including the Special Youth Employment Training Program and new apprenticeship support programs. Other initiatives directed towards young people include the Community Youth Support scheme which aims to encourage community action for the provision of programs and services to the young unemployed; the educational program for unemployed youth to assist those whose educational qualifications are low or inadequate in the labour market; and the establishment of tripartite youth employment task forces in each State to encourage employers to make a special effort to take on additional young people- particularly, at this time of the year, school leavers. Special youth employment bureaus have been created in each State, and youth job centres have been established in all capital cities and are now operating a central self-service employment facility for young people as well as an information centre for employers. 
I should like to make a brief comment on the manpower programs now in operation. It is a very impressive range and at least comparable with the range of manpower initiatives of most other developed countries. All of these programs are the initiatives of this Government or have been substantially and effectively improved by us. The Commonwealth Employment Service is a manpower program in its own right and is the delivery system for the bulk of the other programs. The CES operates through a network of some 230 local offices and 160 agents. In 1966-67 the CES referred over one million applicants to employers, placed more than 450,000 applicants in employment and received nearly 700,000 vacancy notifications. The first ever full review of the CES was conducted in 1977 by  Mr John  Norgard.  His  report, which has been broadly accepted by the Government, recommended sweeping changes to the organisation to transform it into a modern manpower service more able to deal with the labour market problems of the 1980s. Action to implement  Mr Norgard  's recommendations is already under way. One of his recommendations was an immediate increase in staff numbers in the CES to cater better for the needs of those seeking assistance, including the recruitment of people from outside the Australian Public Service to improve the diversity of skills and experience within the CES. 
The whole process of upgrading this vital agency is being gravely prejudiced by the action of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association in directing its members to refuse to process applications from persons outside the Australian Public Service for positions in the Commonwealth Employment Service. It needs to be emphasised that the role of the CES in making these manpower programs available will require adequate numbers of high quality staffsome with industry experience not necessarily available within the Public Service. If this sort of action by the ACOA continues, thousands of people seeking work, particularly young people, will be denied the benefit of the wide range of programs which have been especially designed to assist them. 
We have also decided to set up special youth employment task forces, as I mentioned a moment ago. These are chaired by the State Directors of my Department and comprise representatives of employers, trade unions and the State Governments to encourage employers to take on additional young people. 
I turn now to the National Employment and Training scheme- NEAT. Assistance under that scheme can take many forms, including formal course training to people undertaking approved formal training in educational institutions, either full time or part time. On-the-job training, though, is where we put particular emphasis. Currently some 90 per cent of NEAT trainees are receiving on-the-job training. Employers providing this training are subsidised for a period during which the person is learning his new skill. In addition to these general provisions of the NEAT scheme there are a number of special purpose programs operating within it. One is the Special Youth Employment Training Program. It is available to young people up to the age of 24 years. Since the commencement of SYETP in October 1976, more than 35,000 young people have been placed, while 45,000 young people are likely to be assisted in the current year. This program in particular has proved successful in getting large numbers of young unemployed people into satisfactory and permanent employment. 
There is also the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. I regret that time will not permit me to give a full run-down of the benefits available under that program. However, I think the expenditure on training programs by the Government indicates our concern for the problems with which they are designed to deal. Expenditure has risen from $31m in 1974-75 to an appropriation of $54m in this Budget. But I emphasise that, as already announced, finance will not be a barrier to those seeking training who meet the labour market criteria of the NEAT scheme. The number of people trained has risen even more substantially- from 21,800 in 1975 to more than 60,000 in 1977. Under this Government, more people- more than 85,000 since we came to office- have received practical on-the-job training than ever before, training that is equipping them with skills that are in demand. More than 90 per cent of them are gaining on-the-job training while engaged in productive employment. I need only mention the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme to indicate our concern with apprenticeship. It has been successful even in a time of fairly slow economic activity. It has resulted in an increase in the intake of apprentices of about 8.5 per cent last year. There is also the Community Youth Support Scheme under which some 350 projects have been approved. Some 15,000 young people will be benefiting from the scheme. 
The brief description I have given illustrates beyond doubt the Government's concern about unemployment and its consequences. We are operating a greater range of manpower programs than any other post-war government in Australia. We are concerned and will continue to demonstrate our concern practically and constructively. Other initiatives will be considered when and if they are shown to be necessary and appropriate and if they are compatible with our strategy for economic recovery. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 62nd (Maritime) Session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva in October 1976. I seek leave to make a short statement relating to this report. 
Leave granted. 
I thank the House. Appended to the report are the texts of the following instruments adopted by the 62nd session of the Conference: 
Recommendation No. 1 53- Protection of Young Seafarers 1976; 
Convention No. 1 45- Continuity of Employment (Seafarers) 1976; 
Recommendation No. 1 54- Continuity of Employment (Seafarers) 1976; 
Convention No. 146- Seafarers' Annual Leave with Pay 1976; 
Convention No. 147- Merchant Shipping (Minimum Standards) 1976; and 
Recommendation No. 155- Merchant Shipping (Improvement of Standards) 1976. 
The six instruments have been referred to the appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities for examination and comment. This preliminary examination indicates that, whilst there is substantial compliance with the requirements of the instruments, Australian law and practice do not comply in all respects. In the light of this, immediate ratification of the three conventions does not appear to be practicable. However, in accordance with the normal practice, the position regarding compliance with Conventions Nos 145, 146 and 147 will be kept under examination with a view to possible ratification in due course. The position regarding compliance with the provisions of Recommendations Nos 153, 154 and 155 will be kept under continuing review also. 
I am well aware of the honourable member's long-standing interest in this complex issue and it seems to take the form of an anniversary commemoration in this House. As I informed the honourable member some time ago, this question has been discussed both formally and informally at meetings of Ministers for Labour since I have become Minister, and I have no doubt long before that as well. 
As I informed the honourable member, informal discussions took place on this question at the last meeting but one of Labour Ministers in Perth in September last year, it having been on the formal agenda at the meeting before that. I had requested State Ministers to indicate their views. As a result of the discussions in Perth it became clear that the four State governments which had some interest in this issue- not all State governments are concerned, of course, because two States have wages board systems- were not interested in enacting legislation of their own complementary to the legislation which has been enacted in this Federal Parliament. In addition, they indicated to me that they saw little profit in pursuing the matter further. Under those circumstances the Moore and Doyle issue was not on the agenda for the meeting of Labour Ministers last Friday. 
Pursuant to sub-section 8 of section 125 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904, 1 present the annual report of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
-As the honourable member for Wilmot has mentioned in his question, the present bans imposed by members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association result from the Government's decision to recruit into the Commonwealth Employment Service people from outside the Public Service, as recommended in the Norgard report. Of course, the Government cannot tolerate the continuation of the present situation which is preventing that from happening. It is interesting to note that the Government was strongly supported in its attitude by the honourable member for Hindmarsh in this House last week. 
I think I should explain to the House exactly what is involved here. The union has placed the bans on this recruitment on two grounds. The first ground is that of the composition of the selection panels which select the people from outside the Public Service. The union says that it should be represented on those panels. But the panels are composed entirely of members of the ACOA. They are experienced CES managers who are best able to make judgments on who are suitable applicants for the CES. So what the union is in fact saying is that it has no confidence in the judgment of its rank and file members to decide who should be recruited into the CES. I find that to be an extraordinary situation. 
The union has further requested an appeal procedure against those people recruited from outside the Public Service. That has never been the practice when people from outside the Service have been recruited before, as is well known. What the Government and the Public Service Board put to the union- this has been made public in statements I made last week but it has not been put to the House and I think the House should be aware of it- was that in the case of those people inside the Service who either did not get an interview at all or felt they did not get a fair hearing at an interview there should be a review committee, on which the union could be represented to look into those two aspectspeople who did not get an interview or thought that they did not get a fair go. It is a matter of great regret that the union knocked that back as well. I think it was an absolutely fair and reasonable proposition. The CES needs the people to provide a service to its clients which both those seeking jobs and employers seeking to fill vacancies are entitled to expect. The Government will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that that occurs. 
-As the House will remember, the first Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau,  Mr Linehan,  took up his appointment on 3 October last year. Since that time the organisational arrangements that are necessary to enable the Bureau to carry out its statutory functions have been continuing. I am happy to inform the House that the arrangements have progressed to a considerable extent. The House will remember that the proclamation of the Act under which the Bureau operates can be made in stages as the Bureau builds up its staff to cope with its responsibilities. I am happy to say that I will be making an announcement later today on the stage which the present arrangements have reached. I will make an announcement on the takeover date of some of the functions which will come under the Bureau's statutory responsibility. 
-The House will recall that I indicated in answer to a question asked yesterday about the dispute within the Commonwealth Employment Service that it was of great regret to the Government that the unions involved had rejected proposals made some weeks ago which could have resolved the dispute. At the time I was informing the House of that,  Mr Peck,  the Federal Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association contacted my office seeking a meeting with me. That meeting took place in Canberra last night. I advised the unions of the Government's position and of its determination to reach a resolution of this dispute. 
Following my discussions with  Mr Peck,  he and other officers of the ACOA and representatives of the Australian Public Service Association (Fourth Division Officers) met representatives of the Public Service Board and my Department. As a result of these extensive discussions which continued late into last night a memorandum of understanding was reached as to a basis for the resolution of this dispute. The essence of that memorandum of understanding is that the union officials will remove all bans imposed against the handling of outside applications for advertised positions of employment officer within the Commonwealth Employment Service in return for the establishment of a review panel such as I outlined to the House in my answer to the question yesterday. I understand that executives of the relevant unions will meet today to consider and to endorse the memorandum of understanding with the proposals being put to members in New South Wales and Victoria as soon as possible. 
I can express pleasure on behalf of the Government that there appear good prospects now for the resolving of the dispute so that work can recommence immediately on the Government's priority program of upgrading and improving the services and facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service to meet the current day needs of the country's manpower problems. 
-The first part of the honourable member's question is based on a false premise. The Government does not give low priority to manpower planning and in fact has been devoting considerable resources to this question following discussions at conferences of Ministers for labour, including discussions with Ministers from the honourable gentleman's party, and the National Labour Consultative Council. So far as qualifications for migrants coming to Australia are concerned, as I have explained to the House on previous occasions, the criteria used to establish entry eligibility are the same as those applied to people seeking entry to any of our training schemes under the National Employment and Training scheme. The House will be aware that the recognition of formal qualifications gained overseas has been a long-standing problem. Successive governments over the years have sent tripartite teams, made up of government, employer and union representatives, overseas to try to establish mutually acceptable criteria on which overseas qualifications may be recognised in Australia. This Government is continuing that practice. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Convention No. 81- Labour Inspection 1947 (ratified on 24 June 1975). 
Convention No. 83- Labour Standards (NonMetropolitan Territories), 1947 (ratified on IS June 1973). 
Convention No. 86- Contracts of Employment (Indigenous Workers), 1947 (ratified on IS June 1973). 
Convention No. 87- Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, 1948 (ratified on 28 February 1973). 
Convention No. 98- Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining, 1949 (ratified on 28 February 1973). 
Convention No. 100- Equal Remuneration, 1951 (ratified on 10 December 1974). 
Convention No. 1 1 1 -Discrimination (Employment and Occupation), 1958 (ratified on 15 June 1973). 
Convention No. 131- Minimum Wage Fixing, 1970 (ratified on 15 June 1973). 
Convention No. 137- Dock Work, 1973 (ratified on 25 June 1974). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his question on notice No. 1203.  Hansard,  8 November 1 977, pages 3 1 64-5. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Special provisions exist under NEAT for the training of handicapped persons, particularly young people, in both training institutions and on the job. While undertaking formal training arranged by my Department under the NEAT System, handicapped people are eligible for normal NEAT allowances. Employers providing on-the-job training for handicapped young people under NEAT are eligible for a special subsidy of up to 85 per cent of the Male Adult Average Award Wage ( MAAAW) for 6 weeks of training with up to 40 weeks being provided at the subsidy rate of 40 per cent of MAAAW for those aged 1 8-20 and 33 W per cent for those under 1 8. These subsidy rates are now under review. There is also provision under NEAT for employers who take on handicapped people to be assisted with the costs of any modifications to plant and equipment which may be necessary for the person to work in the establishment. 
The training of the handicapped in rehabilitation centres or sheltered workshops is however the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Social Security. People who are in receipt of a pension or benefit from the Department of Social Security may be eligible for assistance from these sources. There is continuing liaison between my Department and the Department of Social Security to minimise overlap in these areas. I refer you to the Minister for Social Security if you want a more detailed reply on the facilities available through rehabilitation centres and sheltered workshops. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The International Labour Office has advised that apart from the United States of America and Australia, Canada also has relied on the federal States' clause in the ILO Constitution (i.e. Article 19.7) 
(a) 6 November 1977. 
In the ILO context, a member State is said to be in arrears if any amount of its assessed contributions in a particular year is unpaid by I January of the succeeding year. Since 1 972, the United States of America has been in arrears in the payment of its contribution on 4 occasions: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

I have no knowledge of an incident as reported. However, if the question refers to an occasion when the Prime Minister was in a Ferrari motor car, the Commonwealth Police Commissioner has supplied me with the following information- 
The Right Honourable the Prime Minister, the Honourable P. J. Nixon, M.P., and two other gentlemen. 
Yes; for the Prime Minister. 
It is not the practice to reveal the numbers of police used for security duties. 
Police drivers do not record the speeds at which their vehicles are driven in the course of their duties. 
Yes. 
Nursing Homes in Electoral Divisions of Hughes and Cook  (Question No. 20) 
The Minister for  Administrative  Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested is contained in the Australian Electoral Office interim publications 'General Election for the House of Representatives 1977, Result of Count of First Preference Votes and Distribution of Preferences', and 'The Senate Election 1977, Result of Count of First Preference Votes and Distribution of Surplus Votes and Preferences'. 
The Chief Australian Electoral Officer sent copies of both publications to all honourable senators and members last month. 
The Minister for  Administrative  Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested is contained in the Australian Electoral Office interim publications 'General Election for the House of Representatives 1977, Result of Count of First Preference Votes and Distribution of Preferences', and 'The Senate Election 1977, Result of Count of First Preference Votes and Distribution of Surplus Votes and Preferences'. 
The Chief Australian Electoral Officer sent copies of both publications to all honourable senators and members last month. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The provision of information to citizens of Commonwealth countries, including those from Cyprus and Malta, who are now living in Australia is tied in with a general campaign by the Australian Electoral Office to inform eligible voters of their rights and obligations. 
In the 10 days immediately preceding the close of the electoral roll on 10 November 1977 for the recent elections, ethnic radio stations 2EA and 3EA were provided with material on citizenship and enrolment. The material, translated into 26 languages, including Greek, Turkish and Maltese, was broadcast frequently in that period. 
The broadcasts emphasised to the citizens of all Commonwealth countries aged 18 years and over, and who had been permanent residents of Australia for at least six months, the requirement to enrol for and vote at Federal elections. Listeners were asked to contact the Australian Electoral Office if they were in doubt about the requirements and to contact the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs if in doubt concerning their citizenship. 
In respect of the Greek and Turkish broadcasts listeners were reminded that Cyprus is a Commonwealth country and that Cypriots living in Australia permanently and otherwise eligible are required by Australian electoral law to enrol and to vote even if they have not taken out Australian citizenship. Similar comments relating to Malta were included in the Maltese broadcasts. 
As far as newspaper advertisements were concerned there was, prior to the elections, a general enrolment advertising campaign in the major daily newspapers and in the ethnic press including Greek and Turkish newspapers. Advertisements referred to the obligation of all persons who were British subjects, or had the status of British subjects, to enrol and to vote. 
Since the elections, station 3EA has continued to broadcast enrolment information in ethnic languages and this arrangement has now been extended to station 2EA. During the week commencing Monday, 6 March, broadcasts have commenced in Greek, Turkish and Maltese and these will give further assistance to Cypriot and Maltese citizens. 
Arrangements have been made with Australia Post to have a poster on enrolment displayed at Post Offices in areas where there are large numbers of migrant groups. Posters are also on display at Immigration and Australian Electoral Offices. The poster lists the Commonwealth countries whose citizens, if now resident in Australia, are required to enrol and to vote. 
As a special service to persons of Cypriot and Maltese origin the Australian Electoral Office during September to November 1977 provided an officer each Saturday morning at the main shopping centre in the Sydney suburb of Marrickville in order to provide information and answer electoral and enrolment enquiries. 
A multilingual pamphlet on electoral matters is being prepared by the Australian Electoral Office for distribution to every new citizen shortly after the grant of Australian citizenship. This will also be made available for general information to ethnic groups including those representing the Cypriot and Maltese communities. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 200 asked by him in respect of the 1975 election (House of Representatives  Hansard,  30 March 1976, page 1 162). 
That remains the position. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy, chaired by  Sir Walter  Scott made 39 recommendations. 
Broadly speaking, the recommendations can be divided into three (3) categories. Firstly there are those which relate to the setting up of a Purchasing Commission as a statutory authority. The Government did not adopt these recommendations as it did not consider the establishment of a statutory body as either necessary or appropriate. The Purchasing Division of the Department of Administrative Services has, however, incorporated the staff of the former Department of Supply, Contracts Branch and of the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board and become the central disposals authority as  Sir Walter  Scott's Committee envisaged the proposed Commission would do. Consideration is also being given to whether or not additional purchasing responsibilities should be assumed by the Division. 
Secondly, there are recommendations which deal with the revision of current purchasing policies, practices and procedures and the co-ordination of these to form a code of practices for general Commonwealth use. The Government saw merit in the Committee's recommendations in this area and the Department of Administrative Services is developing a standard code of purchasing practices in consultation with other Departments 
Thirdly, there is a number of recommendations directed at improving liaison on procurement matters between Government Departments and Authorities and their supplying industries. The establishment of a ministerial Government Purchasing Committee and the recent complete overhaul of arrangements for giving preference in Government purchases to Australian-made goods, attests to the Government's interest in these matters. Recommendations by the Committee in regard to standardisation and simplification of procedures and documentation are under consideration in the Department of Administrative Services. 
Boards of Foreign-owned Mining Companies: Australian Component  (Question No. 109) 
-The Community Youth Support scheme, which was an initiative of this Government, now involves- from memorysome 220-odd projects throughout Australia. 
I am interested to hear the honourable member for Robertson comment that he considers the projects are a waste of money. Currently some 7,500 young people are taking part in the projects. About 31,000 young people nave participated in the projects since the scheme was originated and a great many of them secured permanent employment during the time they were involved in the projects. There are so many examples of that happening that I thought the honourable member would have been aware of them. Quite apart from the fact that CYSS keeps young people oriented towards work, it has helped a great many of those who have participated in the scheme to obtain permanent work. The honourable gentleman raised the question of the future funding of CYSS projects. He may be aware that recently I issued a Press statement indicating further Government support for the continuation of the program and a greater ability on the part of the State committees which supervise CYSS to grant support for projects up to 12 months instead of 6 months and also to maintain a closer surveillance over the scheme to ensure that those which do not meet proper criteria for the expenditure of public money are no longer supported. There have been examples of some CYSS projects being less successful than others. But I emphasise that overall the scheme has provided the chance for thousands of young people to maintain an interest in work and, in fact, has enabled them to be placed in employment. 
Pursuant to section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904, 1 present the annual report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and 
Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13 August 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report of the Working Party and Manpower Planning is being made available on request to interested parties. 
In a number of areas of my Department work related to manpower planning is regularly undertaken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in New South Wales as at1 October 1 977 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available as required to provide for workload increases, and seasonal workload peaks occuring in individual offices, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Victoria as at 1 October 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available as required to provide for workload increases, and seasonal workload peaks occurring in individual offices, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Queensland as at 1 October 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available as required to provide for workload increases, and seasonal workload peaks occurring in individual offices, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in South Australia as at 1 October 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available as required to provide for workload increases, and seasonal workload peaks occurring in individual offices, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
Commonwealth Employment Service: Staffing of Offices in Western Australia  (Question No.  101) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Western Australia as at I October 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available as required to provide for workload increases, and seasonal workload peaks occurring in individual offices, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Tasmania as at 1 October 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available as required to provide for workload increases, and seasonal workload peaks occurring in individual offices, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of each office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Northern Territory as at 1 October 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1 976 and 1 977 is set out in the accompanying attachment. 
Additional staffing establishment is also made available as required to provide for workload increases, and seasonal workload peaks occurring in individual offices, but records of these temporary allocations of staff are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Senate Question on Notice No. 1116. (See  Hansard,  9 November 1977, pages 2397-2398 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
and (3) Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attached table sets out on a monthly basis during 1976 and 1977 the bed capacity, the number of beds occupied and the occupancy rate of each hostel in New South Wales operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department's expenditure under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP) and Commonwealth Rebate of Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme (CRAFT) is primarily directed to individuals, either employers or employees and there is, I regret, no ready way, without extensive work, to ascertain the expenditure of the moneys in any federal electorate under these programs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) As at 28 February 1978 the organisations listed below had received grants to fund projects under the Community Youth Support Scheme. The Federal electoral division concerned and the amount and duration of each grant is shown opposite the name of each grant recipient. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the honourable member is aware, Aboriginals by law have the right to choose whether or not they enrol as electors. This right is one which is to be exercised freely and indeed it is an offence against the electoral law to interfere or attempt to interfere with the free exercise by an Aboriginal of his choice whether or not to enrol. 
Against this background the view is taken that it should be the policy of the Australian Electoral Office, in consultation with other appropriate authorities, to develop programs of electoral education aimed at ensuring that Aboriginals are better equipped to meet their electoral responsibilities should they have chosen to take up the option to enrol. This approach was adopted with considerable success in connection with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections in 1977 and the recent Federal elections. In more detail: 
special instructions were issued to Presiding Officers to ensure that assistance to non-literate voters was properly given. These instructions covered the marking of ballot-papers, the use of How-to- Vote cards and the secrecy of the vote in respect of non-literate voters; 
posters aimed at assisting those Aboriginal voters having some degree of literacy to fill in their ballotpapers were printed in nine Aboriginal languages of the Northern Territory for display at polling places at which Aboriginal electors were expected to vote and copies were distributed to Aboriginal communities. Additionally, similar information was prepared in leaflet form for general distribution. Both the posters and the leaflets were made available to officers of the Aboriginal Adult Education Section of the Department of Education to assist them in the electoral education of Aboriginals. 
Poll Clerks fluent in Aboriginal languages were employed at specified polling places; and 
a cassette tape, a 16 mm film and video tape were made on electoral procedures. These were distributed to radio and television stations and to Aboriginal communities. 
In terms solely of enrolment special arrangements were made prior to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly election to ensure that enrolment claim cards were freely available in the Northern Territory to Aboriginals who wished to enrol. Supplies were sent to Post Offices, offices of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and Aboriginal Settlements and Missions. 
During the recent Federal elections the Australian Electoral Office sent special observers to polling booths in Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia where it was expected that there might be a heavy concentration of Aboriginal voters. One of the objects of this exercise was to see if there were any particular problems being encountered by Aboriginal voters which should be covered by future education programs. 
In conjunction with the Western Australian Education Department a special electoral education program was conducted for Aboriginals prior to the 1 977 Federal elections. 
The Australian Electoral Office has had discussions with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the National Aboriginal Education Committee with the object of drawing up continuing programs of electoral education for Aboriginals. These programs will aim at supplementing the specific election programs outlined above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As part of my Department's continuing programme of preparing, publishing and distributing information in relation to women and the workforce, work is proceeding on the up-dating of material for inclusion in a proposed 'Handbook for Women Workers'. I shall inform the honourable member when a more definite publication date for this handbook is known. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government intends to acquire these properties as soon as possible and negotiations with the lessees are well advanced. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
People register at CES offices for employment, not unemployment. Questions relating to recipients of unemployment benefit should be directed to the Minister for Social Security. 
In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a Member of Parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers in charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amounts of my Department's Travel and Subsistence expenditure spent on overseas and domestic travel in 1976-77 are set out below. For comparison I have also incorporated expenditure figures for the previous three financial years. 
It should be noted that in 1974-75 and 1975-76 my Department incorporated functions of the present Department of Immigration but the Immigration figures have been excluded in the comparative table to facilitate a comparison of expenditures by my Department as it presently exists. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As at 28 February 1978, 250 Community Youth Support Scheme projects were operating throughout Australia. 
During the month of February 1978, it is estimated that 7500 unemployed youth participated in these programs. 
Total expenditure on the scheme up to 28 February 1978, was $3,444,027. 
I agree with one part of the motion moved by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  which calls for the appointment of a joint committee on unemployment. The honourable member asks that any such committee will have special reference to the possible conflict between unemployment and other policy objectives. The Opposition spokesman on employment has at last acknowledged that unemployment cannot be considered in isolation; that unemployment is not a phenomenon which has arisen somehow independently of political and economic factors. Unlike most of his colleagues, the honourable member apparently has some awareness of the complexity of the problem with which he is dealing. It is precisely this interrelationship which has escaped the notice of the vast majority of members of the Opposition. 
The problem facing the Australian economy and the economies of all advanced Western countries is the interaction between inflation and unemployment. There was a time when inflationary policies were advocated as a means of reducing unemployment. But the events of the past few years in Australia and elsewhere have demonstrated that the inevitable result of inflation is higher unemployment. During the Labor Government's administration this basic inflation-unemployment spiral got completely out of hand. By 1975 even the Australian Labor Party began to realise that public sector spending was not the panacea for all ills- political, social and economic. The inflation of 1974 and 1975, fuelled by massive wage increases, had been further inflamed by uncontrolled public sector spending. Even the Hayden Budget of 1975 recognised, by a belated attempt to put some restrictions on government spending, the need to reduce inflationary pressures. 
It would have been easy for this Government to succumb, as the Labor Government did, to the cries for increased government spending. But such an approach inevitably would only have further worsened the intolerably high rate of inflation we inherited. We had to take action to control inflation and to save jobs. We did so and will continue to do so. The Labor Government believed that unlimited spending in the public sector would create jobs. Yet the folly of spending vast amounts on so-called job-creation schemes helped to give Australia a rate of inflation which peaked at over 19 per cent. These schemes did nothing to create permanent employment but added to inflation which raged on long after people in these job schemes had again become unemployed. So it is odd but welcome to see someone from the Opposition acknowledging the extent and nature of possible conflict between the objective of reducing unemployment and other policy objectives. 
When this Government took office it immediately set about to bring public sector spending down to a more responsible level. It has achieved very considerable success in this objective. The Government has also had some success in reducing the rate of cost increases. But wage rates, which are the major influence on cost, are, as members of the Opposition well know, beyond the direct authority of the Commonwealth Government. 
Our submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in national wage cases have urged the importance of exercising wage restraint. This Government has pointed out the adverse effects of wage increases on the level of employment. Increases granted have in fact meant fewer jobs. The strength and validity of our argument has been proved by the fact that in six out of the past seven national wage case hearings the Full Bench has awarded less than the full increase in the consumer price index. The Commissioners have recognised, even if the Opposition has not, that economic and wages policies must complement each other if inflation and unemployment are to be reduced. 
Prices are determined by demand and supply. If prices are raised when demand is already weak, demand will fall. Certainly no one in his right mind would consider further raising the prices on goods or services for which demand was falling. Yet this is exactly what organised labour and its supporters in this House have tried to do. They seem determined to try to raise the price of something which people are reluctant to buy because the price already is too high. I should be extremely interested to hear a member of the Opposition explain to me how, when labour is already in over-supply, further increasing its price can do other than to decrease demand for it. 
There might be some isolated instances where this proposition does not apply, such as where a monopoly group such as airline pilots or waterside workers can control the supply of labour in their particular areas. But in general terms I defy any honourable member to challenge the proposition which I have just put. The crux of the present unemployment problem is the continuing increase in wage rises brought about, firstly, by the continuing pressures of organised labour and, secondly, by awards of industrial tribunals. This is the point upon which the honourable member for Port Adelaide and members of the Opposition should be concentrating because, in the present day situation, this is the main cause of unemployment. 
In this context, I draw attention to the concept of the dual labour -market, which has become increasingly relevant in Australia in recent years. Currently the Australian labour force can be divided into two categories: The secure and the insecure. Secure workers are those people whose jobs are virtually guaranteed, as in the case of the Public Service or in areas where there is a very high demand for the workers' particular skills. Insecure workers are those workers either who are unemployed or whose jobs are at risk. Increasingly it is possible to see a split in the ranks of organised labour between these two groups. Those people in secure employment are continuing to push for further wage increases, either through full wage indexation or even outside the indexation guidelines altogether. 
A resolution adopted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive at its wages policy meeting in Melbourne as recently as 20 March this year is a clear example of those people with jobs wanting wage increases at the expense of the unemployed. The resolution which encouraged ACTU affiliated unions to seek wage increases over and above those awarded by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would, if acted upon by the unions, inhibit economic recovery and reduce the capacity of the economy to create new jobs. It is a priority which is nationally irresponsible and blatantly selfish, yet we have not heard one word of criticism of it from the Opposition. 
In this context I draw attention to the current activities of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia, which is perhaps the most obvious example of labour monopoly currently operating in Australia. At the present time this organisation is undertaking direct action for wage increases well in excess of the national wage case guidelines. It goes almost without saying that if the further wage increases are granted they will reduce the competitiveness of Australian exports, increase the cost of imports and, directly and indirectly, threaten employment in Australia. Yet do we hear any member of the Opposition raising one murmur of protest against this campaign and similar campaigns? Of course we do not. So much for the much vaunted principle of worker solidarity. It is obvious that those unions in a position to push for wage increases will continue to do so, with no concern whatever for any unemployment they may create amongst less fortunate workers. The Opposition will remain silent, uncaring about its national and social responsibilities. 
There is close similarity to the situation applying 10 years ago, when Australia was still enjoying conditions of full employment. Then the Government was continually pointing out that excessive wage increases could lead only to runaway inflation. The reaction of the Opposition and organised labour to such arguments was that workers were entitled to such wage increases, and if they had inflationary consequences that was something for the Government to worry about. Now, 10 years later, we see the same socially irresponsible argument advanced by the secure members of the labour force to justify further wage increases. Such workers and their spokesmen are saying: 'Let us have full indexation; let us indeed go beyond the indexation guidelines; and if there is further unemployment as a result, it is the responsibility of the Government to do something about it'. It is high time that this facade of moral indignation about unemployment which organised labour in the Opposition displays is stripped away to expose the basic hypocrisy behind it. The Opposition's apparent concern for unemployment does not match its track record. In November 1972 when Labor came into office the unemployment figure in Australia was 1.95 per cent of the work force. By November 1975 when Labor went out of office 4.37 per cent of the work force was unemployed. In one year under Labor unemployment in Australia rose by 1 6 1 per cent. 
The causes of unemployment are known. It is the application of the proven remedies that needs the support of all parties. A joint committee, as is foreshadowed in the motion before the House, would do nothing to produce a solution to the problems of unemployment. The areas of concern of the honourable member of Port Adelaide are of concern to the Government, but unlike the Labor party we have done something about them. What is needed now is the support of the community at large, including the Opposition, for the measures and programs initiated by this Government. The Opposition is not really concerned about the basic causes of unemployment. The Opposition is blind to the damage it did when it was in office, when it failed to take a stand against excessive wage demands. In these circumstances, to include members of the Labor Party in investigations into the nature, extent and incidence of unemployment, into the social implications of unemployment and an examinaton of employment-creating schemes operating in overseas countries would be nothing more than a sham, an empty political exercise and a hypocritical one at that. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The estimated value of damage advised by the Department of Defence to the Fire Board is as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to question No. 86 placed on notice by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  Hansard.  16 March 1978, page 893. 
-The House will be aware that following long and detailed discussions the bans on the export of live sheep have been lifted. I understand that work is proceeding in a normal fashion. The sheep are being loaded by the use of waterfront labour. I have arranged tentatively for talks to be held next Wednesday with the parties involved to see what further steps need to be taken. I think it should be said that there is a gap in the industrial machinery to handle this sort of dispute, which is not an ordinary one in the industrial sense in that there is no clearly denned employer and employee relationship. No doubt that matter will come up for discussion in the talks which have been arranged. I sincerely hope that the interim arrangement which has been arrived at will continue so that the talks can take place in a calmer atmosphere. I hope also that from those talks a more permanent solution to this very difficult and nationally important type of industrial situation will emerge. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As my first step in examining the possibility of providing a legislative basis for the National and State Employment Discrimination Committees, I am arranging for consultations, in the near future, with the employers and trade unions, through the National Labour Consultative Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New South Wales: Bankstown, Blacktown, Brookvale, Campbelltown, Caringbah, Fairfield, Granville, Hurstville, Liverpool, Manly, Mascot, Mt Druitt, Surry Hills, Warilla. 
Victoria: Altona, Ararat, Ballarat, Bendigo, Boronia, Box Hill, Brunswick, Camberwell, Coburg, Colac, Collingwood, Corio, Dandenong, Echuca, Footscray, Frankston, Hamilton, Heidelberg, Horsham, Kerang, Melbourne, Mentone, Moonee Ponds, Moorabbin, Morwell, Newport, Niddrie, Northcote, Oakleigh, Prahran, Preston, Richmond, Ringwood, St Albans, St Kilda, South Melbourne, Springvale, Sunshine, Swan Hill, Wangaratta, Warragul, Warrnambool, Waverley. 
Queensland: West End, Inala, Woolloongabba. 
Western Australia: Cannington, Fremantle, Perth, West Penh, Osborne Park. 
Northern Territory: Alice Springs, Casuarina. 
In addition arrangements have been made for the installation of dual handsets in OCES at the following locations: 
New South Wales: Bondi, Campsie, Kingsford, Leichhardt, Marrickville, North Sydney, Parramatta, 
Penrith, Sydney, Windsor, Rozelle, Woden, Albury, Armidale, Bathurst, Bega, Broken Hill, Cessnock, Charlestown, Cowra, Dubbo, Goulburn, Grafton, Griffith, Inverell, Kempsey, Leeton, Lismore, Lithgow, Maitland, Murwillumbah, Nowra, Parkes, Taree, Wagga Wagga. 
Tasmania: Hobart, Launceston, Burnie, Devonport, Mowbray, Glenorchy, Bellerive. 
Convention on Collisions at Sea: Off-shore Industry Vessels  (Question No. 105) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Statistician has advised that estimates of the total work force employed (i.e. employees, employers, self-employed persons and unpaid family helpers) in manufacturing are derived from labour force surveys, which have been conducted only in February, May, August and November of each year. The estimates for November 1975, 1976 and 1977 are as follows: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) There are four full-time staff and nine part-time staff employed in the Head Office of the Department on teamaking and distribution and three full-time staff and nine part-time staff in other offices of theDepartment. 
In 1976-77, salaries totalled$1 12,154 and other charges amounted to $ 1 , 3 1 4. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No. As to bans on Indonesian registered shipping, the ACTU announced on 2 February that these bans would be discontinued. In respect of trade between Australia and Chile, which has been the subject of industrial action by members of the maritime unions since mid 1 974, the ACTU advised me formally on 17 April that the ban on trade has been lifted. 
The principal unions involved in the bans affecting trade with Indonesia and Chile were the Waterside Workers Federation and the Australian Seamen's Union. A waterside worker's average weekly earnings over the twelve month period ending 30 June 1977, in permanent ports, was $241.81. There are no statistics available on the average seamen's wage but the current weekly rate for an Able Seaman under the Maritime Industry Award is $276.75. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of  Mr J.  D. Norgard on the review of the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question on Notice No. 468,  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
I have seen the article to which the honourable member referred. I would like to inform him and the House that since this program was introduced more than 40,000 young people who were unemployed have been assisted. I have the figures to 3 1 March this year. At that date more than 19,000 young people were being assisted under SYETP which, as the honourable gentleman would know, has now been extended to cater for people up to 24 years of age who have been unemployed for four months or more. That figure of more than 19,000 compares with a figure of some 6,000 at the same time a year ago. The Special Youth Employment Training Program has proved most successful because it concentrates on on-the-job training and relevant work experience for young people who have been unemployed. I think it would be of interest to the honourable gentleman and to the House if I gave some information relating to the survey about which he has spoken. At the time last when the survey was taken, the criteria were somewhat different. For example, the age limit was 19 years. Those people eligible had to be unemployed for six months during the last 12 months and had to be away from full-time education for at least six months. 
The trainees in the survey were very young. About one-third of them were under 1 7 years of age, about one-third were aged 17 years and one-third were between 17 years and 19 years of age. Bearing in mind those criteria and the numbers involved, it is clear that SYETP has provided employment for tens of thousands of young people who otherwise would have been very unlikely to get employment. These numbers are increasing. More opportunities are being provided for young people who are very disadvantaged in the labour market. The Government will continue to monitor this program which is proving to be one of the most successful programs it has introduced. 
I do not have the survey with me. I was talking only from notes. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act concerning the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Industrial Division of the Federal Court of Australia under that Act. Briefly, it provides that, with certain exceptions, matters under the Act should be dealt with by a single judge with a right of appeal to a Full Court comprising three or more judges. Honourable members will recall that, following the creation of the Federal Court of Australia in 1976, the Conciliation and Abritration Amendment Act (No. 3) 1976 provided for the transfer of the jurisdiction of the Australian Industrial Court under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to the Federal Court of Australia in its Industrial Division. The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act (No. 3) 1976 also provided that when exercising its jurisdiction under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Federal Court of Australia in its Industrial Division would be constituted in precisely the same way as the Australian Industrial Court was formerly constituted. In those cases where the Australian Industrial Court was required to be constituted by three or more judges, the Federal Court of Australia in its Industrial Division would sit as a Full Court. Where the Australian Industrial Court was required to be constituted by a single judge, the 
Federal Court of Australia in its Industrial Division would be constituted by a single judge. 
Likewise, the provisions as to appeals remained unaltered. In those cases where there was no appeal from a decision of the Australian Industrial Court under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, there is at present no appeal from the Federal Court of Australia. In other cases, where an appeal lay from the Industrial Court to the High Court of Australia by leave of the High Court, an appeal now lies from the Federal Court of Australia to the High Court. In his second reading speech on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976, my colleague the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  foreshadowed the Government's desire to modify the provision for the constitution of the Industrial Division of the Federal Court, and in relation to appeals, and indicated that such changes would be made subject to consultations with the peak employer and employee councils. Those consultations have since been held through the medium of the National Labour Consultative Council. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act presently provides that the jurisdiction of the Federal Court in its Industrial Division is to be exercised by not less than three judges except in respect of specified matters where jurisdiction may be exercised by one judge. In the Act as it now stands, there does not appear to be any consistent basis on which matters are reserved to a Full Court or placed within the competence of a single judge. Furthermore, successive amendments of the Act over the years have produced a number of anomalies. For example, with only two exceptions, a single judge of the Federal Court has no jurisdiction to deal with offences under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
Yet such offences may be dealt with by a court of summary jurisdiction constituted by a magistrate. In the State industrial jurisdictions, offences are generally dealt with at first instance by magistrates. In relation to the enforcement of awards under the Act and recovery of amounts due under awards, section 1 19 of the Act enables such proceedings to be brought before a magistrate or a district court judge, except for proceedings for a breach or non-observance of a bans clause. However, those same proceedings, if brought in the Federal Court, must be dealt with by a full court comprising three or more judges. Again, in State jurisdictions similar proceedings are normally instituted before a magistrate. 
The Government believes that the present requirements relating to the constitution of benches under the Act are in need of revision in relation to their adequacy in providing for the most efficient use of judicial resources and their influence on the cost of judicial administration. Against these criteria, to have three judges sitting where there are no compelling reasons for matters to come before a full court, is clearly a waste of judicial resources and an unnecessary expense in the administration of justice. Of course, the Government recognises that there are certain proceedings under the Act which, for practical considerations, ought to be reserved to a bench of three judges and this Bill reflects those considerations. The amendments proposed by this Bill provide that the original jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is to be exercised by a single judge of the Industrial Division of that Court, except that jurisdiction under sections 107, 108, 112, 113 and 143 will be reserved to the Court constituted by three or more judges of that Division. The Bill also preserves the right of a full court of the Federal Court to deal with contempt of the court committed in the face or hearing of the Full Court. 
I turn now to those matters under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which are to be reserved to a full court. In relation to sections 107 and 1 12, which concern references of questions of law by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and by the Industrial Registrar, respectively, such references do not occur frequently and, when they do, an authoritative determination of the question of law is required. Similary, jurisdiction under section 108 which deals with determination of the validity of a State order or award, and section 113 which deals with appeals to the Court from State courts, are to be reserved to a bench of three or more judges. The former raises jurisdictional issues with constitutional implications. In relation to the latter, the Government believes that it is appropriate that appeals from State courts on matters arising under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should come before a full court, having regard to the fact that such matters are usually concerned with bread and butter issues which may have a direct and immediate application to a large number of employees. In such cases it is desirable that they be determined authoritatively by a full court, rather than having the possibility of various different decisions by different single judges leading to an element of uncertainty which would need to be resolved by an appeal to the Full Court. 
A further matter which is to be reserved to a full court is proceedings under section 143 of the Act for the cancellation of the registration of an organisation under the Act. Cancellation of registration is the ultimate and most serious penalty that can be imposed upon an organisation. For this reason, and because of the implications of cancellation for the effective operation of the conciliation and arbitration system, the Government considers it appropriate that jurisdiction in this matter should be reserved to a full court. 
Although, as I have indicated, the Bill reserves jurisdiction in certain proceedings to a full court, it provides also that in relation to prosecutions for offences arising under those proceedings, such prosecutions can be dealt with by a single judge. As much of the original jurisdiction under the Act presently required to be exercised by three judges is to be transferred to a single judge, it is appropriate to allow a right of appeal from a single judge to a full court. This would also bring the constitution of the Federal Court in its Industrial Division generally into line with that of the General Division of the Court. Accordingly, this Bill provides that there be a right of appeal from the Court constituted by a single judge to the Court constituted as a full court, except in relation to proceedings under section 158P and Part IX of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
With regard to the exceptions, section 158P provides for inquiries into alleged irregularities in amalgamation ballots under the Act and Part IX for inquiries into alleged irregularities in elections in organisations. In each case the proceedings involve determination of matters of fact which are not complex and the Government believes that further litigation, which would be likely to be factionally motivated, should be discouraged. Part IX inquiries have in practice always been dealt with by a single judge and there has not been an inquiry into an amalgamation ballot. The exclusion of appeals does not extend to convictions for offences in connection with amalgamation ballots or inquiries into election irregularities which will be subject to appeal to a full court. 
In relation to the limitations on appeals to the High Court presently existing in the Act, these limitations have been retained in this Bill. However, they have been extended to preclude appeals in inquiries under section 158P. As it is proposed that there be no right of appeal from a single judge to a full court in relation to section 158P inquiries, the Government considers that there should likewise be no right of appeal to the High Court. However, the Bill also provides that a single judge, in exercising jurisdiction in any proceedings under the Act may, at any stage of the proceedings upon application by a party or on his own motion, order that the proceedings be heard and determined by a full court. 
The Government considers that such a provision is desirable to cover a situation where, in proceedings before a single judge in a particular case, the importance of the issue having regard, for example, to the difficulty of a question of law involved or the subject matter of the action, might justify the matter being determined by a full court. To give honourable members an example, the effect of the provisions of the Bill which I outlined earlier will be that proceedings under sections 140, 141, 171C and 171D of the Act which deal with the supervision of the affairs of organisations now will be dealt with at first instance by a single judge. Many, and perhaps, most actions under these sections are not so complex that they could not be adequately dealt with by a single judge. However, some proceedings can be of a highly complex nature, as the case of Moore v. Doyle and the litigation involving the Shop Distributors Association illustrate. It is to meet these exigencies that the Bill empowers a single judge to refer a matter before him to a full court. 
Allied to this provision, the Bill provides that a single judge must refer a matter before him to a full court upon application by the Minister. I would not envisage many circumstances in which the Minister would make use of this provision. However, it does provide a remedy for a situation in which the parties to proceedings did not seek a reference and such a reference was desirable in the public interest. For example, it may be that, in circumstances where the Minister became aware that factions within an organisation had commenced proceedings which were likely to be protracted and subject to appeal to a full court, he would take steps to have the matter referred to a full court initially. 
Finally, the Bill retains the existing jurisdiction and appeal provisions in relation to matters, the hearing of which commence before the date of commencement of the amendments proposed by this Bill. I believe that the amendments proposed by this Bill will provide more effective means of dealing with legal issues arising under the Act and represent a practical and logical approach to achieving the most resourceful use of the judiciary. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Electoral Office has provided me with the following information: 
The Minister for Administrative Service has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
To the extent of the information available to it, the Australian Electoral Office has updated the answer which the then Minister for the Interior gave to the honourable member on 10 June 1970  (Hansard,  page 3282): 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It gives me great pleasure to submit for consideration of the Parliament this Bill and the associated Bill which are designed to give legislative expression to the Government's commitment to upgrade the Commonwealth Employment Service- CES- into a modern and effective manpower service. The provisions contained in the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 are designed to establish the CES as a unified, clearly identifiable organisation, to provide a legislative framework for the CES which is appropriate for its development as a modern manpower service, and to make provision for the establishment of an advisory committee structure at the national, regional and local level. 
As honourable members will know, the existing legislative basis for the CES is to be found in the Re-establishment and Employment Act 1945. The provisions in the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978, if accepted, will necessitate the 1945 Act being amended, and the Re-establishment and Employment Amendment Bill 1978 proposes the repeal of Division 5 of Part II. The 1945 Act sets out the then Government's policy for re-establishing discharged men and women, and re-settling civilian war workers. In order to facilitate this process, and against the background of the Government's commitment to establish and maintain a high and stable level of employment, and the assumption by the Commonwealth of responsibility for the administration of unemployment benefit, the Act provided for the formal establishment of a decentralised Commonwealth Employment Service. The CES was therefore one of the earliest- and has remained- one of the most significant expressions of the commitment to high and stable employment. Indeed, throughout Western industrialised countries public employment services have remained the cornerstone of the involvement of governments in the operation of the labour market. 
In Australia, few organisations are so visibly present as the CES and offer such a wide range of services and programs. Every day the CES interviews and refers thousands of job seekers or provides specialist advice and information. In 1977 the CES made over 1,200,000 referrals to vacancies and effected over 400,000 placements. At the same time CES services the various labour market needs of employers and during 1977 received some 600,000 new job vacancies. 
However, the environment surrounding the operations of the CES has changed considerably since its formal establishment. In particular, the evolving labour market conditions, particularly the greater incidence of structural imbalances and the trend towards the tertiary sector, have influenced the role and performance of the CES. 
The CES has also been the delivery vehicle for many of the increased activities undertaken by government in respect of labour market training. Our expectations as to the performance and objectives of a public employment service have also altered. It was against this background that the Government in October 1976 commissioned  Mr J.  D. Norgard to make a comprehensive and detailed examination of the CES. This was the first major review of the Service since its inception in 1 946.  Mr Norgard  submitted his final report to the Government in June 1977. 
As honourable members will know, the report was highly critical of the service the CES was providing to jobseekers and employers. It referred to the CES as 'a 1946-model organisation trying to cope with 1977-style problems'. The Norgard report contained a large number of recommendations and suggestions for improving both the operations and performance of the CES over several years. After detailed examination by my Department and the Government I announced, against the background of a general commitment to upgrade it into a modern manpower organisation, a number of decisions vital to the CES. Briefly these were changes to the organisation and management structure of the CES, designed to establish a unified, identifiable CES and improve management and performance control; a substantial intensification of the program of staff training; the provision of ground floor, shop front accommodation for the CES in central business districts; the associated introduction of a more effective and differentiated system of placement assistance; and an examination of computerised employment systems. In recommending these decisions, I indicated the Government would reinforce the changes in the organisation of CES by introducing appropriate legislation. However, before outlining the legislation, there are a number of general points I should like to make. 
Firstly, and most importantly, the Government remains firmly committed to defeating unemployment. Our underlying strategy for achieving a sustained reduction in unemployment in Australia has been outlined on a number of occasions. Briefly it involves achieving a sustained reduction in inflation and creating the environment both internally and externally for an expansion in the private sector. These goals will not be easily achieved, but there are sufficient indications to confirm that the strategy will achieve a sustained and permanent improvement in Australia's economic performance. Within this general framework, the Government will continue to place high priority on employment and training schemes, particularly those directed at young people, and on making the CES a more effective national manpower organisation. If the CES can effect the job placement of people more speedily, this could lead to significant savings. For instance, Norgard in his report makes the point that if each unemployed person found work only one day earlier the gain to central revenue through savings in unemployment benefit would be of the order of $ 18m per annum. 
Secondly, the Government does not intend the CES to have a monopoly of the vacancy-filling business. Private and informal contacts, newspaper advertising and recruiting agencies all play a significant role in local labour markets. However, the Government in accordance with International Labour Organisation obligations is committed to providing a national and comprehensive manpower service. Further, we are concerned that the CES operates with maximum effectiveness in meeting the labour market needs of both jobseekers and employers. In addition, the CES has the added responsibility of providing specialised advice and assistance to the particular groups in the labour market, such as Aboriginals, handicapped persons, migrants et cetera, and more general occupational information and guidance. We are also concerned that the CES efficiently delivers manpower programs to ensure the attainment of not only individual private gains, but also the wider economic benefits arising from an improved functioning of the labour market. In upgrading the CES we will nonetheless be conscious to ensure that the CES services are developed in the most cost effective manner. 
Thirdly, the upgrading program will take place over several years. This program will not only require the provision of the necessary additional resources, but also the support and cooperation of CES staff, employers and jobseekers. A 1946-style organisation cannot be changed overnight. However, the framework is being laid and these legislative proposals are an important part. I am confident that in the years ahead the CES will provide an effective service to all employers and jobseekers and represent an important element in the improved operation of the labour market. 
I turn now to the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 itself. The Bill has three main elements: The establishment, functions and powers of the CES; the position and responsibility of the National Director of the CES, and the status of the staff; and the establishment, functions and membership of a national advisory committee on the CES, and provision for the establishment of regional and local advisory committees. Of particular importance in the detailed list of functions specified for the CES, is the responsibility to 'promote and implement approved manpower programs and other measures designed to ensure a high level of employment in the community'. The changing nature of the labour market in Australia, particularly the emergence of structural imbalances, has required successive governments to introduce manpower programs such as the National Employment and Training scheme- NEAT- aimed at overcoming labour market problems suffered by particular groups within the community. 
On most occasions the CES has been the delivery arm for these programs and frequently this has meant channelling resources away from the more traditional functions of the CES. The Government is now positively stating that the CES has an extremely important role to play in both promoting and implementing manpower programs and that this must be integrated into the traditional functions of the CES. The Government is particularly anxious for the CES to develop properly into a national manpower organisation capable of offering effective placement services and of efficiently administering a battery of manpower programs designed to ensure that the labour market operates as effectively as possible. 
It will also be seen from the Bill that the CES now has the explicit function of assisting employers in meeting labour requirements. In the present labour market situation, the Government is concerned that the CES places appropriate emphasis on securing the confidence and therefore the vacancies of employers. As the Norgard report noted 'vacancies are the lifeblood of the CES' and the intensification of staff training which I have announced will be an important element in this process. 
The CES will, of course, continue to carry out its important and traditional function of assisting jobseekers to obtain employment, placing particular emphasis on those in need of special assistance such as Aboriginals, migrants, handicapped and young people. The CES will also provide jobseekers with relevant occupational information and vocational assistance. Further, the CES will continue to register persons for unemployment benefit purposes, publish labour market and employment service information and collect statistics and other labour market information. The CES will also undertake the training of its staff members. The CES will, at the direction of the Minister, have the power to establish and maintain offices for the performance of its functions. 
Of particular importance in the Bill are the provisions in Part III. The Norgard review pinpointed major weaknesses in the management of the CES above the State level, and concluded that the CES needed to be a closely integrated and singly identified organisation. The review found that the CES as such did not have its own head or a head office, but merely a series of officers in the central office of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations who dealt to a greater or lesser extent with the management and operations of the CES. In order to create a unified service, a clear identity at the national level is imperative. To this end the Government has decided that there shall be a National Director of the Commonwealth Employment Service within the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations who shall be responsible for the administration of the Service and for the implementation of approved manpower programs. The National Director may exercise any powers or perform any duties which are by the Bill conferred or imposed on the Service. 
In line with his responsibilities, the National Director will be required to prepare and furnish to me, the Minister, for presentation to the Parliament, an annual report on the operations of the Service. I will require that this report be available to me by 3 1 August in each year so that it can be presented in the Budget Session of the Parliament. The Government believes this approach represents the most effective means of resolving many of the management problems which the Norgard report identified, and at the same time preserving the necessary integration between the development of manpower policies and their implementation and development. 
Finally, I have indicated a number of times that the CES exists to provide a service to individual job seekers and employers. The real test of its effectiveness therefore depends on the ability both to recognise and to satisfy the various requirements of job seekers and employers. To assist in this task the legislation makes provision for the establishment of advisory committees at the national, regional and local level to advise on the operations of the CES. At the national level, the Bill proposes the establishment of a national advisory committee consisting of two union representatives, two employer representatives, the National Director and a representative of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. At the regional and local level the advisory committees will include appropriate representatives of employer and employee organisations. In conclusion I would like to reiterate that the Government is determined that the CES will become an effective manpower service. These legislative proposals are an integral part of this upgrading and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the repeal of Division 5 of Part II of the principal Act which I foreshadowed in my speech on the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill. It will enable the Commonwealth Employment Service to be established within a more appropriate and updated legislative framework. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-To the best of my knowledge the only increases which have not occurred are those for young people under the age of 1 8 years. The unemployment benefit has been increased for all those people over the age of 18 years. The Government considers that the present level is appropriate. 
Yes, the Prime Minister and my colleagues - 

 Honourable members interjecting; 


That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purposes of the Bill are: First, to ensure that the procedures for, and principles governing, recruitment into, and promotion within, the Australian Public Service in the broad sense of that term are not subject to determination or alteration by the Public Service Arbitrator; secondly, to put beyond doubt that the Public Service Arbitrator and Deputy Arbitrators can make orders standing down officers and employees in the 
Australian Public Service who come within the Arbitrator's jurisdiction and to make provision for the consequences that are to attend standing down. 
Exclusion of Recruitment from Arbitrator's Jurisdiction 
The amendments, designed to ensure that recruitment and promotion matters cannot be dealt with by the Arbitrator, are necessary because of events which arose out of a dispute involving the Commonwealth Employment Service in connection with appointments to CES positions from outside the Australian Public Service. Honourable members will recall that in 1976 the Government commissioned  Mr J.  D. Norgard to conduct an inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service. In his report  Mr Norgard  identified the need for more staff in the CES who have relevant experience in industry and commerce, either at an operative or managerial level. The Government accepted that view.. Accordingly, in November of last year, vacancies for Employment Officer (Class 4) positions in the CES were advertised both within the Public Service and in the Press. On 9 December 1977, the New South Wales Branch of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association imposed bans on the handling of applications from persons outside the Public Service until a right of appeal was granted against appointees from outside the Service to positions above the base grade. Bans were later extended to Victoria and similar action was taken in both States by the Australian Public Service Association. 
When the matter came before a Deputy Arbitrator, he refused to deal with the central issue, that is, there should be a right of appeal against appointments to the Commonwealth Employment Service from outside the Public Service, on the ground that he did not have jurisdiction to do so because, in his view, the matter did not, as was required under the Public Service Arbitration Act, concern conditions of employment of officers or employees of the Public Service. What the Deputy Arbitrator did was to order both unions and their members to cease the imposition of the bans. He also made orders authorising the standing down without pay of any officer or employee in the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in New South Wales and Victoria who refused to perform the whole or any part of his or her duties. He directed that a period of stand down was to be regarded as leave of absence without pay for the purposes of any determination of the Arbitrator or the Public Service Act. 
The unions took the matter to the High Court which held that the Deputy Arbitrator in fact had power to grant a right of appeal and that, as the other orders were made on the erroneous assumption that he lacked jurisdiction to deal with the unions' claim, they could not be allowed to stand. The High Court's decision has very serious implications for the management and continuing efficiency of the Public Service. It appears to mean that the whole area of recruitment into, and promotion within, the Public Service can be removed from the control of the Public Service Board and departmental management by the Public Service Arbitrator. It has traditionally been accepted that this is an area in which the Arbitrator's determinations were not intended to, and should not, operate. 
It is of paramount importance that the efficiency and standards of the Public Service be safeguarded. In order to achieve these objectives, the Parliament has enacted the Public Service Act in which are laid down the principles which govern the personnel policies of the Public Service, and has vested the principal responsibility for administering the Act in the Public Service Board which in turn delegates a number of its powers to the management of departmental authorities. The Parliament has clearly intended that the area of vital importance to the standing of the Service, recruitment, selection and promotion procedures, should be a matter for management decision. There is nothing unusual about this- it is the same principle which applies in the private sector where employers have the right to recruit the employees whom they choose. But in the Public Service there is a special need that it be the Parliament and the Board exercising the powers vested in it by Parliament which determines principles and procedures governing recruitment, selection and promotion. A duality of authority over these principles and procedures, namely, the Board on the one hand and the Arbitrator on the other, can lead only to a situation where the Board is in the intolerable position of being legislatively responsible for the efficiency of the Public Service and the maintenance of a career service, but is unable fully to achieve those objectives because of constraints imposed by an industrial tribunal. 
The issue is not simply one of management prerogatives, though that is important. It is whether the efficiency of the Service might be allowed to be placed in jeopardy. The Government believes it has the responsibility to the public to state clearly and unambiguously that the responsibility for determining the procedures relating to recruitment, selection and promotion in the Public Service shall remain with the Public Service Board and the management of Commonwealth departments and authorities. The possibility of legislation being introduced to that effect was mentioned in the High Court proceedings and when the matter was resumed before the Deputy Arbitrator. I also indicated during discussions with representatives of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Australian Public Service Association that legislation would be introduced. The issue has since been discussed within the National Labour Consultative Council. 
Power to Authorise Stand Downs 
The other matter with which this Bill deals is the power of the Public Service Arbitrator or the  Deputy  Arbitrator to issue orders authorising the standing down of officers and employees and the consequences that are to attend standing down. Section 12D(1)(b) empowers the Public Service Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator to make orders as he thinks necessary or desirable for putting an end to, or preventing the occurrence of, an industrial situation or preventing the occurrence of further industrial situations, or such other orders as he thinks necessary or desirable by reason of the existence or likely occurrence of the industrial situation. Sub-section (2) goes on to provide that the orders that may be made by the Public Service Arbitrator or  deputy  Arbitrator are orders relating to conditions of employment or directing the cessation of the industrial situation or prohibiting the industrial situation. It had been thought that this section empowered the Public Service Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator to make orders authorising the standing down of officers and employees and it was on this view that the  Deputy  Arbitrator made orders standing down members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Australian Public Service Association in the CES dispute. 
However, during the High Court proceedings, some doubt was raised as to the capacity of the Public Service Arbitrator and the Deputy Arbitrator to make such orders. The Government believes that it is important to put this question beyond doubt. Accordingly, the amendments proposed by this Bill will make quite clear that the Public Service Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator can make orders authorising the standing down of officers and employees- whether members of an organisation of not- who are concerned in, or affected by, or are likely to be concerned in, or affected by, an industrial situation. As a corollary to the power to make such an order, the proposed amendments also set out the consequences that flow from the implementation of a power to stand down authorised by an order of the Public Service Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator. An officer or employee who is stood down will not be entitled to salary, wages or other remuneration and allowances in the nature of salary or wages in respect of a period for which he is stood down. Nor will the period of stand down count as service for the purposes of recreation leave, long service leave and sick leave. A period of stand down will not break an officer's or employee's continuity of employment for long service leave purposes. In addition, the Public Service Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator will be able to give directions concerning other conditions of employment of stood down officers and employees. The general effect of these provisions is to equate stand down as closely as possible to that which obtains under awards of the Commission. 
The National Labour Consultative Council has considered the proposals contained in this Bill. The representatives of the peak employee councils have indicated their opposition to the measures in this Bill, in particular the measures to prevent the Public Service Arbitrator dealing with recruitment, selection and promotion matters. The Government, however, is of the strong view that these measures must be pursued for the reasons that I have mentioned. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
by leave- In my second reading speech on the Bill which is about to be debated I said: 
Part IX inquiries have in practice always been dealt with by a single judge . . . 
I regret that that statement is not correct. I should like to set the record straight. Since 1956 when the Commonwealth Industrial Court was established there have been three inquiries by a court of three judges- one in 1975, one in 1977 and the third now before the Court. 
I would like to clear up one or two points that have been raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  The first concerns his reference to the attitude of the National Labour Consultative Council. I am happy to be able to inform the House that the Council did not oppose what is being done here. It made the point that it would like powers of reference, comparable to those which existed in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, to a Full Bench. As honourable members know, the Government has made provision for that The honourable member requested details concerning two other matters. As to the question of section 158P and Part IX being not appealable, he suggested that my reference in the second reading speech to those sections was rather an over-simplification. In giving now more detail on why the Government took the attitude that it did, I stress again that every action taken under this legislation, including those taken under Section 158P and Part IX, can be referred. Either party can request such a reference and, if the Minister so directs, it shall be granted. 
I shall discuss the referral powers of the Minister a little later, but insofar as the section 158P and Part IX questions are concerned, it might be useful to go into more detail on why we have taken the attitude that we have taken. As the honourable member himself has said, the issues concern mainly questions of fact- whether irregularities have, in fact, occurred. 'Irregularity' is defined in the Act. The present position is that inquiries under section 158P and Part IX can be conducted by either one judge or a Full Bench. As the honourable member said, there have not so far been any inquiries into amalgamation ballots. Inquiries into elections under part IX have, with three exceptions, been dealt with by a court constituted by a single judge. I would emphasise that there is no appeal from the court's decision, however constituted. All that the amendments do is to maintain what has generally been the practice concerning Part IX inquiries, and to provide consistency in the treatment of matters of a similar nature. 
The efficient operation of an organisation requires that questions in relation to elections be finalised as quickly as possible. An organisation cannot function as it should, in the interest of its members, while there is uncertainty as to who should hold important offices in the organisation. The existing inquiry procedures under Part IX, where there is no appeal from a court's decision, strike a balance between the need to rectify irregularities and the need to ensure that the rectification process is not so protracted as unduly to disrupt the administration of organisations. The provisions of an appeal would provide additional scope for faction fights, which would necessarily further delay the finalisation of elections. This approach is reinforced by the provisions requiring that an application for an inquiry under Part IX be lodged with the Industrial Registrar, who is required to refer it to the court only when he is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for an inquiry into the question whether there has been an irregularity in the election which may affect the result, and that the circumstances justify an inquiry by the court. That means, of course, that the fate of an application can be determined by the Industrial Registrar, from whose decision there is no appeal. 
If there were to be an appeal from the court's decision on an application for inquiry, consistency would seem to demand that the Industrial Registrar's decision should also be appealed, or that all applications should be dealt with by the court without the intervention of the Industrial Registrar, so that they would be subject to the appeal provisions. In either case, the practical effect would be that the court would have to inquire into whether there was justification for the application. It could reasonably be expected that elections would be increasingly the subject of inquiries, on the application of disappointed candidates or their supporters, and increasingly organisations would be called upon to defend the propriety of their elections against allegations of irregularity, which an investigation by the Registrar would have shown to be without foundation. The position would be exacerbated by provision for an appeal against the court's findings. 
In relation to amalgamation ballots, a relevant factor is that they must be conducted by the Industrial Registrar's Office or the Australian Electoral Office. Of course, that does not mean that the ballots are immune from irregularity, but it does mean that the scope for the occurrence of the irregularities is very much reduced. It is not the Government's position that these inquiries cannot be dealt with by a full court. Under proposed section 1 18c a party to an inquiry will be able to apply to the judge for an order that inquiry proceedings be heard and determined by a full court. Such an application can be made at any stage of the proceedings. That will enable matters that are appropriate for a full court to be so dealt with, without the necessity to go through a preliminary hearing before a single judge, as would be the case if there were an appeals system. Moreover, it is not only under section 158p and Part IX that an allegation of irregularity can be investigated. 
Where it is alleged that a relevant rule is invalid, or that there has been a failure to observe a rule, proceedings can be taken under sections 140 or 141, as appropriate. Indeed, the honourable member made several references to such cases. A decision under those sections is subject to an appeal to a full court. Consequently, where interpretations or other questions of law are involved, decisions on those questions can be made subject to review by action under sections 140 or 141, as applicable. All things considered, I do not believe that a right of appeal in section 158p, or Part IX, inquiries is either necessary or desirable. 
Turning now to the other matter raised by the honourable member, that of the right of the Minister to have a matter referred to a full court, I assume that his argument is the old one that has been used against intervention by the Minister in matters before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- that the parties should be able to settle their affairs between themselves without government interference. It is an argument which assumes that no one outside the actual contestants has any legitimate interests in how those contests are conducted or resolved. That may be generally true when the contest concerns only the relationships of individuals. It is certainly not true where the contestants are powerful industrial organisations whose activities can affect, for good or ill, the welfare of all Australians. The Government cannot stand aside and let these organisations arrange affairs to achieve results satisfactory to them but unsatisfactory to the community generally. 
In my second reading speech I said that I would not envisage many circumstances in which the Minister would make use of that provision. The honourable member sought further details about what the Government had in mind and I will be glad to expand my original statement. I mentioned that it would provide a remedy for a situation in which the parties to proceedings had not sought a reference but such reference was desirable in the public interest. I mentioned, as an example, circumstances in which the Minister might become aware that factions within an organisation had commenced proceedings which were likely to be protracted and subject to appeal to a full court. It is in the interests of the members of the organisations that these proceedings be finalised as quickly as possible. It is also in the interests of the community, which provides financial assistance in proceedings under the Act. 
It is estimated that at least $100,000 will be spent in providing financial assistance this financial year. Since 1972 approximately $400,000 has been spent on this form of assistance. There could also be circumstances in which it would be desirable to obtain an authoritative decision on a question of law arising from the proceedings, but which neither party to the proceedings would be prepared to pursue through the appeal process. It may be used, I repeat, only infrequently, but the power is there when required. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 3- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Limitation on appeals). 
I take up two points which were referred to by both the honourable members for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  The honourable member for Melbourne Ports felt that sections 140 and 141 were more appropriately dealt with in the first instance by a full court. As the honourable member says, these issues often involve highly sensitive areas in the union movement. I agree with him in that assessment. He expressed the view that time and cost would be saved if a matter went to the full court in the first instance. But I believe this is a matter of balance. The argument he put may be so in a great many of the sorts of issues that can arise out of section 140 and section 141 actions. This does not have to be so. Therefore the Goverment does not consider it unreasonable that, in the first instance, these actions can be dealt with by a single judge. I stress again the point that if any of the parties or indeed the Minister- and I will come back to the referral power of the Minister in a minute- see some danger signals in relation to a section 140 or section 141 action, the matter can be referred to a full court without going through the full procedures of an appeal. I believe that some actions undoubtedly can be appropriately dealt with by a single judge, and where they can be well and good because this would be a better use of the court's resources. But if there are difficulties I would guess- and I believe the honourable gentleman with his experience would agree with me- it would not be long before a matter was referred to the full court, particularly in cases which involve the sorts of issues we know can arise. 
I have already explained in some detail in my second reading speech why I believe it is necessary for the Minister to have the power of referral. I reiterate that in proceedings such as those which can arise in the industrial division of the Federal Court the Minister as the government's representative in turn is the representative of the public interest. It is true that we have taken action in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to ensure that the Minister can act in the public interest on his own initiative. The Minister is in a special position in representing the public interest and he has a special responsibility which does not apply to the parties themselves. I explained that the Minister would not use his power as a normal course of action, but the Government believes the power needs to be in the legislation. I am aware of the trade union movement's general opposition to this right of the Minister but I make no apology for this power. A government should not stand aside if it believes the public interest is at risk. It should have the power to intervene on behalf of the public when it considers it necessary to do so. We have made provision for that power in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and we make the same provision in this Bill. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill resumes, I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Re-establishment and Employment Amendment Bill, as they are associated measures. Of course, questions will be put separately on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I shall attempt to make some comments on the various speeches that have been made in this debate. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  led for the Opposition. The first point he made was that more resources should be provided for the upgrading of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I remind the honourable member that during the three years that his Government was in office it did nothing, absolutely nothing, to review the operations of the CES or to upgrade the services it provided. All that was done by this Government. The review was commissioned of and carried out by  Mr J.  D. Norgard and that resulted in a report which has received wide and favourable comment. I would like to make it clear that in accepting the major recommendations of the Norgard report the Government has publicly committed itself, through the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and me, to an expenditure of $16m over the next five years. That is $16m more than the Labor Government provided because it provided nothing- absolutely nothing. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide also made reference to the statutory authority referred to in the Norgard report. The Government decided against having such an authority. The structure now proposed will enable the CES to carry out the functions envisaged by the Norgard report. As usual, the Opposition seems to believe that we can solve all problems by setting up a statutory authority. I merely reiterate that that is not the attitude of this Government. I considered it the height of irony when the honourable member for Port Adelaide criticised the manpower programs of the present Government. 
Just wait a minute. I point out that this Government has done more in this area than any other government, particularly that of his own Party. Just listen to these figures. The number of people involved in the National Employment and Training scheme when we came to government was 7,700. The latest figure I have is that there are now 36,000 people involved in that scheme. A total of 94,000 people have now gained a skill which they did not have before this Government came to office. The Special Youth Employment Training scheme did not exist when the Australian Labor Party was in power. At the moment 23,000 young people are gaining skills under that scheme. 
Does the honourable member challenge those figures? 
I am talking about them getting a skill which they did not have before. It was an opportunity they would not have had but for this Government. So far 40,000 young people have received assistance under that scheme. The Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training scheme was a totally new initiative of this Government. The intake of apprentices last year into that scheme was up by about 8 per cent and so far this year the figures are looking equally encouraging. There was no Community Youth Support scheme when we came to government and at the moment there are 31,500 young people participating in it. Since its introduction over 44,000 people have participated in it. 
I have been waiting for that interjection. If the honourable member had taken the trouble to look at the better and more successful CYSS projects he would have found that in the better ones over 50 per cent of the young people participating in them get permanent employment while participating. I am sorry that he has not taken the trouble to inform himself better. 
Will you stop him,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
I am sick and tired of him. He has had his go. 
I ask for a retraction of that. 
I said: 'I ask for a retraction of the statement that I was misleading the House'. 
What was that? 
If the honourable member is so sensitive that he finds that offensive I will withdraw it. I now come to the question of the National Director of the Commonwealth Employment Service who will have, as is pointed out in the legislation and in the second reading speech, a considerable degree of independence in administering and implementing the CES functions. Let me give a specific answer to a question raised by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  who asked whether policy, as distinct from administration and implementation, would be in the hands of the CES. I make it quite clear that the policy remains, as it should remain, in the hands of the Minister and his Department. 
Amongst the special responsibilities of the CES will be the groups which for one reason or another are disadvantaged in the labour market. They are Aboriginals- I will be having more to say about them- migrants and young people, just to mention a few. Several honourable members have referred to the situation of women. The Government supports, as it always has supported, the principle of equal pay and the policy of non-discrimination. Through the very successful national and State discrimination committees, the role of women in the work force has been significantly protected. Also the advisory committees referred to in the legislation will encourage interested groups and parties to participate in the work of the CES. 
But in a wider context I reiterate that the solution to unemployment will depend ultimately on reducing inflation and restoring the proper balance between wages and profits- in other words, the proper management of our national economic affairs. To assist in a better understanding of the manpower policy and requirements, the Government set up the Williams Committee into the relationship between education and training and the Crawford study into structural adjustment of industry. There is also the IMPACT project designed to give us more information on medium and longer term manpower requirements. 
I compliment the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  on a very constructive speech. I agree with him on the benefits to job seekers of competition in the market place between those in the business of placing people in employment. Obviously the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  has not informed himself adequately on this subject or on the content of the BUI. I draw his attention to a statement I made at the start of my speech, that the Government has committed itself to a program of $ 1 6m over four years in the CES area. 
The honourable member for Cunningham made an extraordinary statement that employers should be criticised for not taking on more people. I point out to him and to his colleagues on the other side of the House that members of the Australian Labor Party were directly responsible through their gross irresponsibility in government and through the wages explosion of 1974 over which they presided for putting hundreds of thousands of people out of work. By refusing to support the Government's policies of wage restraint they are making it more and more difficult for those presently unemployed to get work. 
The honourable member also talked in a totally uninformed way about the need for apprenticeship assistance. The honourable member clearly does not know about the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Full-time Training scheme, known as the CRAFT scheme. I repeat what I said earlier, that this scheme worked out in conjuction with the State governments, employers and the unions has already resulted in a substantial increase in the apprentice intake. 
The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  deserves the thanks of the House for setting out so clearly the wide range of Government manpower programs. He also devoted a considerable part of his speech to the very important area of Aboriginal employment. I would like to tell him and the House of the action taken in that respect since the Norgard report was presented. There has been a substantial increase in resources, both financial and physical, to the area of Aboriginal employment. There have been more funds provided for travel, more Aboriginal vocational officers and a significant upgrading of this section within the Department itself. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  referred to the very real difficulties of people in country areas, particularly those engaged in primary industry. The Government has acknowledged these special problems and has made provision for them. The honourable member also referred to the need for more Commonwealth Employment Service offices in country towns. I would like to expand that number, of course, as soon as possible and that will be done as finances allow. I take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the many CES agencies in country towns and districts throughout Australia. These agencies provide a most useful service, often under very difficult conditions. 
I regret to say that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  made a very negative speech. I remind him, as I have reminded the honourable member for Port Adelaide, that his Government did nothing for our national employment service. This Government has committed itself to a major improvement of the service which will be to the mutual advantage of those looking for labour and those looking for jobs. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The arrangements resulting from the closure of the Los Angeles consulate-general are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The sums spent by the Department on advertising and services during the periods in question were- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Labour is in short supply in a number of skilled occupations. However, these shortages are distributed over a number of locations. The skilled metal and electrical occupations are those most affected. Details of the occupations in which there are shortages are provided in the Department of 
Employment and Industrial Relations' publication 'Employment Prospects by Industry and Occupation', February 1978. 
Action to overcome the shortages is being taken through the immigration program, a number of training programs, including CRAFT, and initiatives taken by the Government to increase resources for technical education. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 200 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  30 March 1976, page 1162). 
-The Government has already taken action in this area through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, but as I shall explain shortly this action has been circumvented. Applications for a shorter working week in the 
South Australian power industry have been before the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for some time and the case has been delayed because of a pending High Court decision relating to whether the State Electricity Commission of Victoria could intervene in the proceedings. The Federal Government had already intervened and the submission that it made to the Full Bench of the Commission was along the lines that, firstly, granting these claims on productivity grounds- which was the argument put forward- would be contrary to the Commission's decisions in the past, particularly in the General Motors-Holden 's Ltd case and the oil industry case; secondly, the claims were contrary to the wage indexation guidelines; and, thirdly, to grant such claims would be quite inappropriate in the present economic climate. 
These claims can and should be settled before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Instead, the South Australian Government has neglected the normal means of determining these disputes and, as I understand it, has allowed these claims to be granted by purely administrative action. A full examination of the implications of this needs to be made by the Commission, particularly when unemployment in South Australia is at its present serious level. As a result of this decision there will undoubtedly be pressures for a flow-on in other areas and the cost implications of this will jeopardise job prospects for the unemployed in South Australia. It will jeopardise the security of those employed in insecure jobs for the sake of benefiting those in a particular form of secure employment. In these circumstances I find it difficult to understand the decision of the South Australian Government. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978. Its purpose is to amend the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 in order to remove from the Tribunal's jurisdiction the determination of remuneration for members of the Legislative Assembly, members of the Executive Council and Ministers of the Territory. The amendment is in accord with the wishes of the Northern Territory Executive. The Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978 provides that the Northern Territory Government may, if it so wishes, confer on the Tribunal by enactment the function of reporting on remuneration in respect of these offices. The ultimate responsibility, however, for the determination of remuneration for these offices will rest with the Northern Territory Government. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 so that it will continue to have application for Commonwealth purposes in the Northern Territory after self-government. A special provision is incorporated to free statutory authorities of the Northern Territory from the requirement to have acquisitions of real property for their purposes effected under the Act. If" it is decided later that any statutory authority of the Northern Territory should have its acquisitions effected under the Act, this may be declared by regulations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Australia has adopted a distinctive approach to trade union training. It has three elements: Firstly, public funding of union training; secondly, the planning, development and provision of training by an independent authority set up by Act of Parliament, which is, I believe, unique; and thirdly, the establishment of a National Trade Union Training College and trade union training centres in each State. The approach recognises that trained trade unionists, no less than trained management, are of critical importance to the community and that without public support for trade union training little progress is likely. 
I wish, on behalf of the Government, to pay tribute to the architect of all this, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It is particularly fitting that he should be permanently remembered in the name of the National Trade Union Training College, the Clyde Cameron College. Honourable members will recall that the legislation providing for a Trade Union Training Authority passed through this Parliament some three years ago. It received the support of all parties, and I trust that this bipartisan support is maintained as the present amendments progress through both Houses. 
The Government has consistently expressed its support for the concept of trade union training. However, in 1976-77 it found itself faced with a number of important policy issues regarding its future development in Australia. These issues included: 
Should trade union training be part of a wider industrial relations training or continue to be separate? What was in the best interests of all concerned? 
Was the organisational structure of the Authority, with an Australian Council, six State councils and directors of the National College and State centres, all with some executive authority, the most efficient and effective? 
What were the training needs of trade unionists? The Australian Council for Union Training had adopted an annual training objective of one per cent of trade unionists, but this did not have any established basis. 
Should trade union training provided by the Authority be solely public funded or should there be some commitment on the part of the trade union movement itself, in line with the arrangements overseas? 
The Government felt that it needed a fresh examination, and a more detailed one than was possible by the Australian Council for Union Training. As honourable members will be aware, in 1977 it established a tripartite Committee of Inquiry into Trade Union Training. The Committee of Inquiry examined over 400 submissions and had discussions with approximately 100 persons throughout the country. The Committee completed its report in August last and it was tabled in this Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to express my public appreciation of the work of the Committee and the assistance which it has been to the Government. 
Detailed comments on the recommendations of the inquiry were invited from the Australian Council for Union Training and from the employer and union peak councils represented on the National Labour Consultative Council. There were further discussions in the NLCC and the Australian Council and a top level deputation from the peak union councils put additional views. All the comments have been carefully considered and have helped considerably in determining the future development of the Authority. On the key issues, the Committee recommended: 
Trade union training should not be integrated into a general system of industrial relations training. 
There should be a complete evaluation to determine the specific extent of training required, both as to numbers and course content. 
Trade union training should continue to be funded by Government, with funds to be provided commensurate with the Authority's training program. 
The Trade Union Training Authority should be retained as an independent statutory body, an independent training institution. However, technical and further education has the potential to provide training and offers scope for the rationalisation of training resources. 
The Government has accepted the general thrust of these conclusions. The report also proposed some changes in the composition of the Australian and State Councils for Union Training while at the same time retaining the basic structure. The Government considers that it is necessary to go further than the Committee recommends to provide for more efficient and effective management of the Authority. As I have indicated, currently there is an Australian Council of sixteen members and six State councils each with specific powers, as well as a Director responsible for the affairs of the National College and six State directors responsible for the State centres. 
Following detailed consideration, including the consultations which I have previously mentioned, the Government has decided to establish a small Executive Board of eight members. The Executive Board will be part time and will be responsible for the formulation of the policy of the Authority. Complementary to this, a new position of National Director will be created. He will be responsible for the conduct of its affairs in accordance with policy determined by the Executive Board and any policy directions it gives but, as a member of the board, will participate fully in the formulation of that policy. The Government also proposes to expand the responsibilities of the present position of Director of the Clyde Cameron College. The position will be retitled Director of Studies. As the name implies he will, under the National Director, be responsible for the management and provision of all training by the Authority, not only at the College but in each of the State trade union training centres. These changes will provide for more effective policy formulation and management of the Authority. 
Honourable members will appreciate that streamlining of the executive and management responsibilities will naturally change the present role of the Australian and State Councils for Union Training. The Government sees advantage in maintaining these bodies to advise on trade union training programs and their effectiveness. The importance of the advisory role, particularly of the Australian Council, is underlined by the direct link which the legislation provides between the Council and the Executive Board. Not only will all members of the Executive Board be drawn from the Australian Council, but the Board' will reflect the different interests represented on the Australian Council. Thus the Board will comprise a  chairman,  who will be the  Chairman  of the Australian Council, the National Director of the Authority, the employer and departmental members of the Council, and four union members drawn from the union members of the Council. 
I should like to refer to the proposed involvement of employers on the Executive Board and the councils of the Authority. Honourable members who have had the opportunity of reading the report of the Committee of Inquiry will be aware of its emphasis on greater employer involvement in training activity. The Authority has already provided for employer input to some extent at the College and the State centres, and participation of employers at all levels will further facilitate this. Perhaps even more important, however, employer representation at both the policy and advisory levels will bring a broader insight and perspective to trade union training. This is important, bearing in mind that industrial relations involves both employers and unions. Added to this, such areas as paid educational leave concern the employers no less than the unions. The amendments also provide for the Authority's closer involvement with technical and further education. As honourable members will see from the Bill, under the new arrangements the Tertiary Education Commission will be represented on the Australian Council and the appropriate TAFE bodies will be represented on the State Councils. This is in line with the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. 
In making the changes proposed in the legislation the Government has been particularly conscious of their possible impact on the staff of the Authority. The legislation protects all present officers and employees of the Authority. They will be able to continue in the service of the Authority under the terms and conditions they currently have. The Government is conscious of the need to maintain a proper balance of interests in relation to trade union training. On the one hand it is important that the trade unions are able to participate effectively in the formulation of policy and programs and have confidence in the Authority's activities. Thus union interests remain in the majority on the Australian Council and each of the six State Councils for Union Training. Equally, trade union training, provided through a statutory authority and funded by the taxpayer, must have regard to community interests, and the Government believes that the balanced membership of the Executive Board recognises that need. The changed structure within the organisation will make for a more effective pursuit of the objectives of the Authority, namely, the planning, provision and oversight of trade union training in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I shall endeavour to refer to the comments that have been made by honourable members in this debate. I start by referring to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who led for the Opposition. He said that the Public Service Board wanted complete control of recruitment into the Public Service. He referred to the Public Service Arbitrator's action in relation to the dispute which involved recruitment into the Commonwealth Employment Service. It is perfectly true that the genesis of this legislation was in that dispute. But I remind the House that the Public Service Arbitrator in that case said that he did not have jurisdiction. That, in fact, was the original umpire 's decision. 
I remind the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)-  I shall come back to this later- that it was the union that did not accept the umpire's decision. It was the union that appealed against the decision, as it was perfectly entitled to do. As it turned out, the High Court of Australia upheld that appeal. In effect what that decision meant was that what had always been assumed to be the case was not in fact correct. What the Government has done in response to that decision is to put beyond doubt what had previously been the accepted practice. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  referred in some detail- I understand his concern- to the non-accrual of long service leave, annual leave and sick leave and asked whether it should apply automatically in the case of public servants who are stood down. 
In all cases. In private industry that can be part of stand down provisions in awards. As I am sure the honourable member knows, from memory, stand down provisions are part of something like 300 awards of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Whether they are applied or not, it is quite true, as the honourable member says, that that can be decided by the Commissioner in considering his attitude to a settlement. That provision can be used as part of the bargaining process. I accept that that has been the practice on the part of private industry. But the honourable member for Lilley has also accepted that the non-accrual principle can apply in the case of private industry. Indeed it can apply, as I am sure the honourable member knows, in many of the State public services as well. 
-It is not automatic. I make it clear to the House that the Government considered this automatic aspect of application to the Public Service very carefully. In doing so the Government bore in mind its dual responsibility, firstly as a good employer, and secondly as the representative of the public interest. After all, the Public Service is paid for by the taxpayer and the Government has an overriding responsibility to protect the interests of the taxpayer in these circumstances. It is quite relevant that apart from long service leave, recreation leave and sick leave- as the honourable member has pointed out quite rightly the loss of accrual is mandatory as part of the stand-down provisions in this legislation- the Public Service Arbitrator has flexibility in deciding what other terms and conditions of employment can be considered in the context of arriving at the settlement of a dispute. The Government had all these factors very carefully in mind and it had to strike a balance, always having as a principal cause for concern the responsibility that it had to the public. The Government therefore considers that this legislation is a fair reflection of this responsibility. 
I mentioned a moment ago the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes who alleged that, following the High Court decision in the Commonwealth Employment Service dispute, the Government had altered the law to suit its own purposes. I have already pointed out that the legislation merely makes clear that, in future, the position, which up until then had always been accepted as being the situation, will be put beyond doubt. The honourable member for Hughes also referred to court decisions in relation to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator. I have done a great deal of research on this matter and I have not been able to come up with one single court decision in relation to it. I merely ask the honourable member for Hughes to check his facts. There have been expressions of opinion by Public Service arbitrators. I stand willing to be corrected, but I think one was  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator Hughes, who gave as his opinion that it might be within the jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator to make decisions in relation to recruitment or some similar kind of thing. So far as I am able to determine there was no court decision in relation to this particular aspect until the High Court decision of recent date to which the honourable member referred. 
The House is indebted to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  for a very clear exposition of the reasons behind this legislation. He did an excellent job of exposing the inconsistency of the Opposition's attitude to the Public Service as a whole. Various members of the Australian Labor Party have expressed the harshest criticism of the Public Service. Yet tonight in this debate we had members of the Australian Labor Party putting on some spurious pretence of espousing the cause of the Public Service. I do not think I need to say anything more about that. The Opposition's sincerity or lack of it will be judged by its remarks which are on the public record. 
The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  referred to the problems which emerged during the CES dispute. I do not want to go over all that old ground again, but it needs to be stated explicitly that early in that dispute, long before it had reached the serious proportions it eventually did, the Public Service Board on behalf of the Government put forward a proposition relating to a review procedure which was exactly the same as that eventually accepted as a basis for a settlement of the dispute. That is one of the most disappointing aspects of this dispute which did great damage to the operations of the CES and its morale and put the public image of that Service in a bad light. The basis for the settlement had always been there. It was put to the unions at that stage. They refused to accept it. That caused a great deal of disruption, which honourable members know about, but eventually the unions ended up accepting what had originally been put to them. That is incidental to the broad thrust of the legislation which now puts the Public Service, as the Government sees it, on a fair and proper basis in relation to employees in private industry. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department has made no investigations into the percentage of two income earners who are married. The information contained in the Women and Work Newsletter, Vol. 1, No. 2, January 1978 was obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication Income Distribution 1973-74-Parts 1 and 2 (Reference No. 17.8) which provides information on the income of individuals and families. 
The precise information sought is not available. However data are available on families where both husband and wife are in the labour force. Such families would include those where one or other (or both) of the husband or wife were unemployed and not earning income. These data are published in the Australian Bureau of Statistics bulletin Labour Force Status and Other Characteristics of Families, November 1974, (Reference No. 6.57). The publication shows there were an estimated 1,221,800 married couple families with both the husband and wife in the labour force. Of these an estimated 59.3 per cent (or 724,500) had dependent children present. The publication also shows that of the married couple families with both husband and wife in the labour force, 44,100 (or 3.6 per cent) had either the husband, the wife or both unemployed. Since the data are based on a sample they may differ from those that would have been obtained from a complete census using the same questionnaires and procedures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The delay in proclaiming the section is due to the fact that the regulations necessary to the operation of Pan VIII AA of the Act have not yet been made. In accordance with the Government's commitment to consultation with trade union and employer peak councils, the format and content of proposed regulations is presently being examined by the National Labour Consultative Council. The implications of Moore v Doyle are not a reason for the delay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (e) In view of the volume of requests for detailed labour market information and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. I suggest that the honourable member contact the Officers-in-Charge of the CES offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Former Regular Servicemen's Vocational Training Scheme was introduced on 1 February 1978. It was developed after consultations with my colleague, the Minister for Defence, and detailed discussions between representatives from my Department, the Department of Defence and the Defence Forces. 
There are no proposals under consideration which would reduce the qualifying period to less than the completion of 15 years effective full time service, although the Scheme makes an exception for members who have been discharged on the grounds of invalidity. However, former members of the Regular Defence Forces who are not eligible for training under this Scheme, may seek resettlement training through the National Employment and Training Scheme (NEAT). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following information relating to the number of apprentices employed by the Queensland Government Railways (QGR) has been provided by the  Hon.  F. A. Campbell MLA, Minister for Labour Relations. A total of 275 apprentices have been allotted to the workshops at Ipswich as at 1 March 1978. The Redbank workshops do not apply for apprentices to be allotted, but some of the apprentices employed at Ipswich are transferred, for varying periods, to the Redbank workshops to augment their training. The number training at Redbank varies as a result. 
The Australian Government subsidises the employment of QGR apprentices in two ways. Firstly, it pays the entire cost throughout apprenticeship of employing 18 apprentices allotted to the Ipswich workshops. These apprentices are employed under the Additional Apprentices Scheme and are surplus to the Railways requirements. It is expected that on completion of training, these apprentices will be available Tor employment in the private sector. During the calendar year 1977, $108,224 was paid to the Railways Department in respect of these apprentices. Records of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations show that the equivalent amount for 1976 was $76,146 and for 1975, $45,590. The second method through which financial assistance is provided is under the apprenticeship support schemes, CRAFT (Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training) introduced on 15-1-77 and NAAS (National Apprenticehip Assistance Scheme) which preceded CRAFT. The Employers' Incentive Subsidy under NAAS was payable for first year apprentices. The CRAFT Technical Education Rebate is payable whenever technical education is carried out throughout the apprenticeship. The amounts paid in each year will therefore escalate as new intakes start their technical education. Bulk claims are submitted by Queensland Government Railways and as a result the amounts payable in respect of those apprentices employed at Ipswich cannot be identified. The following figures relate to the total of all QGR apprentices. In 1975 there was an average of 107 first year apprentices subsidised under NAAS during each quarter. The amount paid in respect of them was $10,373.55. No subsidies were paid in 1976 because the eligibility criteria for NAAS were not met that year. It is estimated that the 165 first year apprentices employed in 1977 will attract a total subsidy under CRAFT of $63,525 for 1977, some $40,816 of this having already been paid. Taking into account the 1978 intake of 76, the total CRAFT Technical Education Rebate payable for 1978 is likely to be some $97,000. (This will be payable in respect of first and second year apprentices attending compulsory technical education courses). 
3 ) I am informed by  Mr Campbell  that it is expected that, during 1978, 60 of the apprentices allotted to the Ipswich workshops will complete their training and that 53 of them will be retained by QGR. During 1979, a further 87 Ipswich apprentices will complete training, but the number of them who will be retained in employment will depend on QGR' actual requirements when each apprentice completes training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) Yes. 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to his question without notice on 28 February 1978  (Hansard,  House of Representatives, 28 February 1978, page 202). 
Information on the number of man hours lost in each year in the last 9 years in the course of demarcation disputes between the Transport Workers Union entities registered under Federal and New South Wales laws is not available. However, for the honourable member's information the table below sets out such relevant information as is available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes; this matter has been condered in detail by the Conference of Ministers for Labour and the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee, and the views of members of the National Labour Consultative Council are being sought on possible approaches fore dealing with the difficulty to which the Victorian Minister for Social Welfare referred. 
The Public Service Board has advised my Department that it is willing to consider work experience proposals and is prepared to explore whether and how such proposals can be accommodated within existing employment and other relevant legislative provisions. The extent and nature of the Commonwealth Public Service's participation in such schemes would be determined by the nature of any proposals and the legal and other difficulties that might be thrown up in detailed examination. 
I understand that opportunities are currently available, where work demands and staff resources within Departments permit, for interested students to observe work undertaken in the Commonwealth Public Service. Special arrangements are also made for the employment of students who need to undertake appropriate employment to complete the practical requirements of their academic courses. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The general conditions relating to provision and operation of beverage services in Commonwealth establishments are outlined in Finance Directions, section 8, paras 13-18, and in other Department of Finance memoranda. Charges are apportioned as shown hereunder 
Met from Departmental Appropriations 
Attendants' wages 
Beverage vending machines 
Mobile trolleys 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has a Central Library in its head office in Melbourne with a branch in the Industrial Registry and a Regional Library in each of the six Australian State capital cities, and small collections in Darwin and Canberra. 
The main purpose is to provide a Library based information service for the Department by collecting and disseminating the necessary published information for the Department's research, policy-making and operational activities. 
) The information in the form requested is not available. The following information is provided: 
Library expenditure on all categories of publications, including books and periodicals: 
1974- 75-$6 1,999.00 
1975- 76-$65,940.00 
1976- 77-$74,046.00. 
Items currently held: 
The information is provided here in terms of linear feet of library shelving occupied by books and other publications (e.g. pamphlets, legal collections, et cetera) and periodicals (including serials). Books and other publications (including pamphlets, legal collections et cetera): 4608 linear feet. The average number of books per linear foot is 16. Periodicals (including duplicate titles): 2415 linear feet. Representing 1000 titles. 
Estimated acquisition in 1977-78: 
Books and other publications -Total is dependent on the availability of publications in subject areas relevant to departmental needs. $40,100.00 has been allocated. 
Periodicals- It is expected that the same number of periodicals acquired in 1976-77 will be acquired in 1977-78. $54,250.00 has been allocated. 
The budget allocations for publications, binding and specialised stationery for each library in 1 977-78 are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) A total of 26,298 persons were in on-the-job training under the NEAT System as at 28 February 1978. 
Of the number shown in ( 1 ) (a) above 18,057 persons were receiving training under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP). 
As at 28 February 1978 9,972 employers had claimed the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-Time Training (CRAFT) in respect of 18,175 apprentices. This represents approximately 50 per cent of the estimated number of apprentices eligible for rebate payments. 
A total of 423 young persons were enrolled in the Education Program for Unemployed Youth (EPUY) as at 28 February 1978. 
In 1977 a total of 692 persons were assisted under the Relocation Assistance Scheme (RAS) to take up jobs in other areas. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service occupation categories from which these persons were drawn are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is estimated that about 40,000 young people have been assisted to date under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP). 
The most recent survey conducted by my Department 4-6 weeks after the end of the training period found that about 70 per cent of former trainees were in full time employment at the time they completed the survey questionnaire. 
It is not known how many graduates and diplomate, from tertiary institutions have great difficulty in obtaining employment solely because they lack relevant work experience. 
It is pointed out that the aim of providing a special rate of subsidy under SYETP is to assist those who, having tested the labour market, are not able to find stable employment. The fact is that the great majority of those completing full time education are able to find employment without any financial assistance. To extend SYETP benefits to an employer for a young person he would have employed without subsidy would be costly and contrary to the Government's policy of restraining public expenditure. 
Finally there does not seem to be any merit in dispensing with the qualifying period under SYETP for graduates and diplomates. To do so would place these people at an advantage over others and would make it difficult to identify people in need of special assistance. 
Papua New Guinean Ex-servicemen: Australian Benefits  (Question No. 665) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The reply to the honourable member's question given on 24 March 1977 was not, as is suggested by the honourable member, erroneous. He will recall that he asked whether the Queensland Treaties Commission had recommended changes to Queensland law to permit agreement to ratification of ILO Convention No. 107. While the Commission's report contained references to Convention No. 107, the Commission made no recommendations regarding changes of law necessary to permit agreement to ratification and nor did it indicate that its examination of the Convention was concluded. Against this background the answer provided on 24 March 1977 was correct: no advice had been received regarding the outcome of the examination by the Queensland Treaties Commission of ILO Convention No. 107. 
Four States have agreed to the ratification of Convention No. 107. The States and dates of agreement are as follows: New South Wales, 16 March 1967; Victoria, 12 May 1970; South Australia, 17 February 1967; Western Australia, 17 June 1974. 
The Convention has no application in Tasmania. 
There has been continuing correspondence over a number of years at the Prime Minister/Premier level and this correspondence is continuing. 
The position regarding State agreement to the ratification of these Conventions remains as set out in my reply to parliamentary question No. 1179 which appeared in  Hansard on  23 February 1977. 
-The Government of course is very concerned at youth employment problems. Our manpower programs, including the range of training schemes, are fundamental to our employment strategy. They are particularly directed towards the problems of young people. Moreover, we have made it plain that the availability of finance would not limit the provision of training to young people who meet the criteria of those schemes which ensure that young people are better equipped to enter the work force. 
I have received over a period a number of representations for additional measures designed to assist the employment of young people. Many of them have been along the lines of the scheme just suggested by the honourable member. I can assure him that they are all carefully examined. Schemes which provide appropriate training and /or work experience can be a very useful first step in helping young people to obtain stable employment. We have been concentrating on strengthening the opportunities for young people to gain work experience, particularly under the Community Youth Support Scheme. The honourable member will be aware of the improvements that have recently been made to that scheme and of a greater emphasis on access to work experience in local projects. I have no doubt that as this scheme develops more opportunities will be provided for young people along the lines that would be provided by the sort of body, a youth service cadet scheme, that the honourable member has proposed. 
The honourable member has also raised with me the question of the establishment of the special sub-committee on youth employment. A great deal of work has already been done in this area. Consequently, a fair amount of information is available. I can assure him that I stand ready to help him and the committee in any way I can over the winter recess period. 
I am aware that the delay in issuing the new guidelines for the Community Youth Support Scheme has created some uncertainty in the minds of those people who are involved in the scheme. However, some delay was inevitable because the new administrative arrangements which I announced some time ago had to be discussed with the various State committees so that appropriate new guidelines could be issued. I am happy to tell the honourable member that that process is almost finished and the new guidelines are expected to be released very early in June. Even though the detailed guidelines have not yet been issued, the State committees have power to approve the continuation of projects for up to 12 months, provided of course that the requisite information is available and the committee is satisfied that the situation in the community concerned and the success of the scheme in helping unemployed young people warrant this extension. I make it quite clear, if it was not clear to the honourable member from that comment, that that approval for a 12-month period applies to continuing projects only. New projects will be approved only for a period of six months so that a proper assessment can be made as to whether they are meeting the criteria of the scheme. 
In relation to submissions made by local Community Youth Support Scheme committees for 12 months funding starting from 1 July, I can say that provided the required information is made available and the submissions are received at the Victorian regional office of my Department before Friday, 2 June, such submissions can be considered by the State Community Youth Support Scheme committee which will be meeting later in the month. In these circumstances, any local CYSS committee which has made a submission for a continuation of a project need not be concerned that the application may not be successful merely because the detailed guidelines have not yet been announced. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not available because statistics collected relate to Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) Office areas or, as in the case of expenditure on manpower programs, to regions, neither of which correspond with electoral divisions. 
In view of the volume of requests and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information as is available, I have arranged for local offices of the CES, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide any readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. 
Public Servants and Service Personnel: Employment after Retirement  (Question No. 765) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The information is not available because statistics collected relate to Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) Office areas or, as in the case of expenditure on manpower programs, to regions, neither of which correspond with electoral divisions. Because of the volume of similar requests and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information I have arranged for local offices of the CES, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide any readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) With the exception of the Community Youth Support Scheme (CYSS) the information is not available because the relevant statistics are compiled on the basis of Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) Office areas or regions, which do not correspond with electoral divisions. In some instances, however, the statistics compiled by the CES will prove useful. In view of the volume of requests and the time involved in extracting and preparing such information, I have arranged for local offices of the CES, when requested by a member of parliament, to provide any readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. Expenditure on CYSS in the Kingston electorate was nil in the year 1976-77. Two projects were approved in 1977-1978, the total commitment for the year being $23,610.27. The numbers assisted by the projects are not yet available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The figures requested are shown in the following table: 
in reply- I thank honourable members on both sides of the House who have contributed to this debate. Without taking too much of the time of the House I shall try to make some comments on each of the speeches that have been made. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who is the shadow spokesman in this matter led for the Opposition. He started by criticising the fact that the Government had created another body, the Executive Board, and made some comments on the cost involved. He questioned whether that cost could be justified. What he did not say was that there are also corresponding savings. As the councils will now be only advisory bodies the sittings of those councils will not carry remuneration fees although travelling allowances will be paid to those people who attend meetings. He also did not say that six statutory offices will be abolished. Those officers will become employees of the Authority. 
The honourable member also referred to the claim that there had been some lack of effective management. I refer him to the points I made in my second reading speech. I shall make further comments on that particular aspect of his criticism of the Bill later in my reply to the second reading debate. The new structure will make the Authority a more effective body. It will enable it to be managed more efficiently. The honourable member also raised the question of whether a quorum would be possible on the Australian Council without any unionists being present. I suppose that is technically true. To get a quorum there would have to be a  chairman  plus six members. It would be necessary for all seven unionists and the member nominated by the Leader of the Opposition to be absent from the meeting. If a quorum could not be obtained in such a way and the members I have just mentioned absented themselves it would be a rather extraordinary reflection of their interest, or lack of it, in the body to which they had been appointed. Certainly if the unions felt strongly about these issues they would attend such meetings. If they were genuine in their concern they ought to attend them. 
The honourable member commented on the revised definition of training in the new Bill as have other honourable members during the debate. I draw the attention of those honourable members who commented on this matter to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Trade Union Training. It felt that the definition should be changed. As has been mentioned previously, that Committee of Inquiry was tripartite in character. It included representation from the union movement. The Trade Union Training Authority has faced the same restraints as other bodies in the public arena with regard to staff ceilings and finance but in practice it has received very special consideration in both these respects for the proper reason that it is a new body which cannot be considered in the same context as those departments and other statutory authorities which have been in existence for a long time. If I heard him correctly the honourable member referred to the Draconian measures in this Bill. That is absolute nonsense. The amendments are the result of prolonged and extensive consultations with the National Labour Consultative Council, peak union councils and the Australian Council for Union Training. 
The honourable member for Franldin  (Mr Goodluck)  made the very relevant point that trade union training has a major role to play in improving industrial relations generally. He is quite right in that view. The legislation is designed specifically to achieve that. As I remember, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  interjected along the lines that it is not possible to get results in that respect overnight. Of course, he too is right but that is certainly the common aim of both sides of the House and this legislation. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  asked why the amendments were put forward now rather than three years ago when we were in opposition and the original Bill came before the House. I again refer the honourable member to my second reading speech. Trade union training was then an entirely new concept in Australia. It was natural for experience to show that amendments to the original Bill were both necessary and desirable. The new Bill contains those amendments. I think the honourable member for Burke also referred to the position of National Director. He alleged that until this Bill was introduced the Director of the Clyde Cameron College would have been the National Director. If the honourable member believes that he has completely missed the point. The Director of the College will now be the Director of Studies responsible not only for the management of the courses at the Clyde Cameron College but also for all training throughout the Authority, including the State centres. It is impossible for such an onerous job to encompass the administration. That is not the way to run an organisation such as this. Clearly, the honourable member for Burke did not understand what is required. I do not know whether that comes as a great surprise to anybody. 
The honourable member for Burke acknowledged that some amendments in the Bill were desirable. They are on the record. I do not think it is necessary to go through them. He has been in the invidious position of being the Prime Minister's appointed representative because of the terminology of the former Bill. This legislation will, of course, correct that. He said that the six States will not be represented on the Australian Council. I remind him that each of the State advisory councils which will be appointed will have direct access to the Executive Board, that is to the board responsible for policy. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  picked up the reference of the honourable member for Burke to a list of names from whom the advisory councils are to be appointed. Various other honourable members have referred to it. It follows a precedent which has been well canvassed in this debate. The honourable member for Casey discussed at some length and very sensibly the rationale for trade union training. He made many constructive observations, particularly in relation to the need for training at supervisory level, with which I entirely agree. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  seemed very disappointed that the trade union courses to which he referred did not preach the degree of revolution and the overthrow of our society that he would have liked. He laid great stress on the need for the union content of the Trade Union Taining Authority. I remind him that the Australian Government funds trade union training in a way which, as far as I know, does not apply in any other country. The funding comes from the taxpayer. I would be more impressed by the arguments of the honourable member for Cunningham if the trade union movement indicated that it was prepared to make a substantial contribution to the capital and recurrent costs of trade union training, but so far I have not detected any great enthusiasm. 
He too made reference to the list method of selection but went on to say that the lists could result in there being on the councils people whom the unions no longer wanted to represent them. I draw his attention to proposed new subclause (3A) of section 28, which provides that an organisation can notify the Minister that it no longer wants a certain person to represent it. The Minister may then terminate that person's appointment. That applies equally to union and employer representatives. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  drew attention to the drastic results of irresponsible union leadership in strike action and the effect that had on job opportunities and the purchasing power of rank and file members. He also mentioned the need for informed and responsible union leadership. The honourable member also made some very valid comments on the difference between the educational side of trade union training and the administration side concerned with running a statutory authority. I have already made reference to the distinction there. The Bill clearly recognises this by the appointment of both the National Director and the Director of Studies. The honourable member for Darling Downs did make an interesting suggestion regarding the desirability of having greater understanding between the farming community and the trade union movement. I agree with him on that. He will note that under the legislation courses can be funded at institutions other than the Clyde Cameron College or the State training centres for precisely the purposes outlined by the honourable member. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who can truly be called the father of trade union training in Australia- I acknowledge his contribution to that field- did disappoint me when he spoke so disparagingly of the department of which he was once the Minister, and of which I now have the honour to be Minister. I regret that he made the comments that he did and I cannot allow them to pass without a reply. They were unfounded, unfair and untrue. I wish to make it clear that the legislation before the House is the Government's legislation: it is not the legislation of the National Civic Council, of the Department or anybody else. 
The honourable member referred to the longterm nature of the benefits of trade union training. Reference has already been made to that; it has been acknowledged that that is the case. The legislation is designed to ensure that long-term benefits do accrue from the training provided. Incidentally, he was strongly critical of there being an employer representative on the Australian Council and on the Executive Board, but I must say that his view is not shared by the union movement, which did not oppose it. The inquiry recommended a greater degree of employer involvement. 
I chose my words carefully. I said they did not oppose it. 
You can have that in the record if you like. I merely say that the union movement did not oppose it. 
-Both. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  referred to the report of the inquiry and acknowledged that the Government had accepted most of its recommendations, but, as I emphasised in my second reading speech, had decided to go further. As I have explained, any government has the right to do so if it believes that it will result in better and more effective management of the Authority and, more effective use of the resources provided, both human resources and the physical buildings of the college and the various trade union training centres. That is what the legislation is designed to do. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  alleged that the Government did not want trade union training to continue. Of course that is ridiculous. 
Well, I thought that was what the honourable member said. 
I am talking about the honourable member for Fremantle. As I understood him, he alleged that the Government did not want trade union training to continue, and I am saying that is ridiculous. We acknowledge the need for trade union training. We funded completion of the Clyde Cameron College, which the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was kind enough to acknowledge. We have agreed to increases in staff and in current expenditure even in times of the very strictest restraints on Government expenditure. That allegation just does not stand up. He also made reference to employer participation in the Trade Union Training Authority and if there was any misunderstanding I am glad to clear it up now. This was raised at the National Labor Consultative Council. There was very strong representation from the employers to gain representation both on the Council and on the Executive Board, and if it makes him any happier I repeat what I said in winding up the second reading debatethat was not opposed by the union movement. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  also referred to these consultations in the NLCC and I remind him that his Party when in government never called together the predecessor of the NLCC- the old National Labor Advisory Council- in the three years that Labor was in government. That Government just ignored it. I have never claimed unanimous agreement arising out of discussions in the NLCC, but very extensive discussions have been held by that Council and subsequently further discussions with the peak union councils. The very nature of industrial legislation and the views taken by the two sides of the House on it, make it inevitable that there will be occasions on which it is not possible to reach unanimity. But I make the point that at least to those who have views to put we have made the genuine offer of an opportunity to put those views through the most extensive possible discussions. The Labor Government never did that. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide also raised again the question why a National Director was necessary over and above, if you like, the Director of the College. I reiterate the point I made earlier- the Director of the College is now the Director of Studies with responsibility not only for the management of the College but oversight of all training activities in the Authority, and the administration of this large, complex and diverse Authority needs somebody who is able to give his full time to it. 
I was delighted to hear that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is looking forward to my reply. He had better listen carefully as it will be rather brief. He spoke principally about the definition of trade union training. I remind the honourable member that the title of the Authority is the Trade Union Training Authority. That is its job. That is what it is empowered to do and that is what it will do. 
Question put- 
That clauses 1 to 7 be agreed to. 
The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  referred to the National Director and the Executive Board taking the place of what he said was a broadly representative council. I remind him that the Executive Board is a much more broadly based body under this legislation than the old council was. The honourable member for Batman then proceeded to put up his own straw man and knock it down. The fact is that under this legislation the Trade Union Training Authority will remain a statutory authority. It will remain as a body funded by the taxpayer. It will be more effectively managed and more effective in doing the job that honourable members on both sides of the chamber agree needs to be done. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. The Government decided early in 1 977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the company was completed on 13. 1 1.77. However, in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by my Department. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 
(3) 
Yes, I have seen such reports. If the statements were reported correctly- and I believe they are, bearing in mind the text of. the resolution which was passed by the Builders Labourers Federation- the claims are clearly outside the wage indexation guidelines. There is no doubt in my mind that they are part of a campaign to destroy an orderly system of wage fixation in Australia. If the claims are pursued there will be a serious effect on jobs. Honourable members will remember that not long ago bans and limitations were imposed by the BLF, particularly in the State of Victoria, which brought to a stop projects worth some hundreds of millions of dollars. Thousands of men employed in the industry were put out of work and stood down. Further, confidence in the industry was shattered and, understandably, investors have been very reluctant to invest in major projects since then. Those bans and limitations, therefore, are still having an effect and still costing jobs. Very significantly, in Victoria, the rank and file members of the BLF eventually repudiated their union leadership and insisted on the right to return to work. I believe that the lessons of that campaign have not been forgotten. The ordinary Australian worker certainly does not appreciate irresponsible action by union leaders to pursue things for their own selfish purposes, often with questionable political motives in mind, particularly when it is likely to cost the worker his job and the jobs of fellow workers who depend on the building industry. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation for the year ended June 1 977. 
I am well aware of the honourable member's great interest in this subject, particularly the project which bears his name. It has been agreed for some time on both sides of this House that trade union training is both necessary and desirable. I assure the honourable member that those two factors will be borne in mind closely by the Government during its consideration of the Budget Estimates. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will be aware that, pursuant to section 66 of the Constitution, provision for the annual sum payable out of Consolidated Revenue for the salaries of Ministers of State is made in the Ministers of State Act 1952-73. The Act was last amended in 1973, and the annual sum appropriated is now insufficient to meet current ministerial salaries as recommended by the Remuneration Tribunal. That is the reason for this proposal. At the same time, clause 4 of the Bill repeals the sections of the principal Act which previously provided for the allowances payable to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers of State. These allowances are now determined from time to time by the Remuneration Tribunal. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In respect of land used for Defence purposes the Commonwealth paid the following amounts to the respective Councils in the years shown: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The City of Altona- 1975-76, nil; 1976-77, nil. 
The City of Keilor- 1975-76, $42,165.06; 1976-77, $54,915.61. 
The City of Sunshine- 1975-76, $9,749.42; 1976-77, $4,523.65. 
The Shire of Werribee- 1975-76, $16,007.96; 1976-77,51 1,589.36. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is set out in the following table compiled by the Australian Electoral Office. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
First preference voting figures for each candidate together with informal and total votes in each subdivision for elections of the House of Representatives and the Senate in the period 1960 to 1975 are contained in the publication  Election Statistics  (formerly  Statistical Returns)  for New South Wales published by the Electoral Office after each election. The publication  Election Statistics  for the December 1977 elections will be issued within the next few months but the information sought is available from copies of Election Form 62 sent to honourable members recently. 
The boundaries of the subdivision of Moorefield have been changed once during the period, 1960-1977. The boundaries as proclaimed in Gazette No. 42 of 1 September 1955 stood until changed to those proclaimed in Gazette No. 83 of 29 September 1966. 
The boundaries of the subdivision of Hurstville West were not altered during the period 1 960- 1 977. 
The boundaries of the present subdivisions of Lakemba South, Belmore, and Campsie in the Division of St George were all created as proclaimed in Gazette No. P 10 of 1 November 1977. They comprise parts of subdivisions of the previous Division of Lang (the subdivisions of Lakemba, Belmore and Campsie). 
Aboriginal Affairs: Consultation with Oombulgurri Community (Question No. 995) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is set out in the following table compiled by the Australian Electoral Office. The table is in two parts: prior to redistribution and after redistribution. This is because there were changes made to the boundaries of the Division in the 1977 redistribution. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tables provide statistics on employed and unemployed persons in the construction industry during each month since January 1 977 for which data are available. 
The data presented to cover 'unemployed in the construction industry' are the number of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for employment in occupations related to the construction industry. The occupational categories covered in this instance are skilled building and construction workers, builders labourers and other building and construction workers. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2)1 presume the honourable member is referring to the period certain Ministers met with the Prime Minister at his residence at Nareen. The cost of the visit for the five Ministers and staff is given in the following table. The information is based on accounts paid by my Depanment as at 23 May 1978. 
Expenditure Travelling Minister on transport allowance 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No staff canteens are operated by the Department of Administrative Services. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On the basis that by 'land resumption' the honourable member means the 'compulsory acquisition of land', the answer to his question is as follows: 
There is no legislative right of public objection and no notice is given for that specific purpose. Adequate notice is served on all affected landowners pursuant to section 9 of the Lands Acquisition Act, except in very special circumstances where the Minister may certify that the provisions of section 9 should not apply. 
With the exception of the Defence Service Homes Corporation which has compulsory acquisition powers under its own Act, the legislative provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 apply to all compulsory acquisitions effected under the Act on behalf of all Commonwealth departments and all other Commonwealth statutory authorities. 
There is no specific provision for prompt payment. However, payments are made promptly after claims are determined. The Act makes no provision for part payments in advance, although such payments are frequently authorised administratively. 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
The compulsory acquisition of land by the Commonwealth is under reference to the Australian Law Reform Commission which at present is examining 'inter alia' the matters you have raised. The Commission expects to present its report on this subject later this year. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
To assist analysis of the election results, the Australian Electoral Office estimated the percentage of the formal votes which each political party would have obtained in every division had the 1975 elections been conducted on the basis of the new boundaries created by the 1977 redistribution. 
The percentages for each division were calculated in the following manner. The votes obtained by each political party in those subdivisions which had not been split by the redistribution were aggregated. Where a subdivision had been split by the redistribution, the votes obtained by each political party at those polling places which were included in the new division were also aggregated. The totals obtained for each party in this way were then converted to a percentage of the formal votes. A proportional adjustment was made for the effect of postal, absent and section votes in each of the former divisions which either wholly or partly comprised the new division. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Estimates of the total civilian labour force are available from the monthly labour force survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Estimates based on these surveys are published in various ABS bulletins including 'The Labour Force (Preliminary)', Catalogue No. 6202.0, the most recent of which refers to April 1978. Since the estimates are based on a sample they may differ from those that would be obtained from a complete Census using the same questionnaires and procedures. 
Using this source, in April 1978, the total civilian labour force was estimated to be 6,404,900. This estimate includes employers, self-employed and unemployed persons as well as employees. 
Information on the number of persons receiving pay increases awarded by national wage case decisions is not available. 
Under the present wage fixation system, national wage decisions and the equivalent State wage decisions flow through to virtually all employees affected by awards, determinations and collective agreements, and to, probably, a small but unknown proportion of persons not so affected. 
A survey conducted by the ABS, and published in the bulletin 'Incidence of Industrial Awards, Determinations and Collective Agreements, May 1974', Reference No. 6.5, may be relevant. The survey covered most, but not all, wage and salary earners and showed for those employees who were covered that only an estimated 12.2 per cent were not affected by industrial awards, determinations and collective agreements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates of the addition to the national wages bill resulting from the national wage case decisions in May 1973 and May 1974 are not available. To obtain that information would require an unjustifiably large expenditure of manhours. 
The cost of national wage decisions on a quarterly basis since the introduction of the wage indexation principles in April 1975 is set out below: 
Addition to the National Wages Bill each quarter (including some allowance for overtime) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department has examined the feasibility of estimating the economic cost of industrial disputes. We have concluded that while it might be possible to estimate the cost of a particular industrial dispute, provided adequate data is available, it is unlikely that such costing could be done effectively on a comprehensive or continuing basis. The main difficulty is that measurement of the economic cost of industrial disputes is extremely complex as it requires information on factors which cannot be readily measured. We do not believe therefore that the resources required to estimate such costs would be justified by the result. 
I welcome the honourable gentleman's question because I feel it is high time that attention was focused on the facts of the dispute rather than on the apparently clouded public relations exercise in which the union has been engaging in the last couple of days. I say that because I am not surprised that the union would try to obscure the real issues involved. 
In answering the honourable gentleman's question it is necessary to go back over some recent history. On 30 June the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association imposed work bans in three States in an attempt to press its claims for promotion of some of its members without the qualifications necessary for them to gain that promotion through the normal internal structures of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. For the Commission to have agreed to those demands would have meant abandoning the necessary qualifications standard. The dispute was the subject of proceedings before Commissioner Clarkson on a number of occasions before it was adjourned indefinitely, and it needs to be understood why it was adjourned indefinitely. The reason was the refusal of the union leaders to accept a working document prepared by all parties to the dispute as a basis for examining the classification structure of the Telecom Australia staff. On the recommendation of the federal executive of the union, the work bans and industrial disruption were then widened. At the time of the union 's action Commissioner Clarkson said: 
It seems to me that if you - 
That is the union- persist with the action which your members are now engaged in that you are inviting a confrontation . . . While you  have got the bans on you are dosing the doors; nobody else is; and the simplest and most effective way of getting this dispute fixed is to lift those bans. 
Those were the words of Commissioner Clarkson a couple of weeks ago. He concluded: 
All in all, the situation is a mess, the quickest and easiest way of cleaning up the mess is to lift the bans. 
Last Friday Commissioner Clarkson again sought to convene discussions. He proposed, inter alia, a 2 1-day cooling-off period. That evening Telecom communicated to the union its general acceptance of this proposition. The next day the Federal Executive of the union decided to reject the Clarkson proposals in the full knowledge of the Telecom general acceptance of them. That was made public before Commissioner Clarkson yesterday. 
I would like to emphasise that Telecom has acted responsibly at all times and has sought to have this dispute settled through the proper processes available to it. On the other hand, the union has rejected any attempt to negotiate and has chosen to revert to strike and ban action designed to impair the effectiveness of the nation's telecommunications network. I would like to say that the Government supports Telecom in the action it has taken, following the normal negotiating procedures. It has taken all reasonable steps to resolve this dispute. 
Yes, I was at the meeting to which the Leader of the Opposition referred and I recall  Senator Withers  raising the question of his communication with the Chief Electoral Officer on that occasion. 
-There was no secret about that. It was presented before the Royal Commission. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) New Zealand between 8 and 1 2 March 1 976 to consult with the New Zealand Government regarding matters affecting the Christmas Island Agreement Act of 1958, and 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore between 29 July and 5 August 1977 to look at aspects of my Department's operations. 
New Zealand: 

 Mrs Withers; Mr R. Maher, Senior Private Secretary, $17,400 + $3,888 Ministerial Staff Allowance per annum; and  Mr P.  J. Lawler, O.B.E., Secretary, Department of Administrative Services, $35,000 + $2,000 Allowance per annum. 
South East Asia: 

 Mrs Withers; Mr P. Hocking, Senior Private Secretary, $19,406 + $4,246 Ministerial Staff Allowance per annum and  Mr A.  Palmer,  Deputy  Secretary, Department of Administrative Services, $3 1 ,  105 per annum. 
Based on accounts processed to date- 
New Zealand: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department's records show that the following Departments and Authorities occupy Commonwealth owned and leased land and property in the Electoral Division of Werriwa: 
Department of Administrative Services (Electoral Office) 
Department of Employ ment and Industrial Relations 
Department ofScience 
Department of Social Security 
Department of Transport 
Australian Postal Commission 
Australian Telecommunications Commission 
Defence Service Homes Commission 
Health Insurance Commission. 
It should be noted that the Department does not hold all records of the land and property holdings of Commonwealth Statutory Authorities. 
I am not prepared at this time to direct staff resources away from important day to day tasks to assemble detailed information on each property in the honourable member's electorate, hut information on some specific properties could be supplied on request, subject, of course, to the confidentiality of the information asked for. 
However, I am able to advise that there are more than 120 properties both Commonwealth owned and leased within the Electorate. The range of properties includes a number transferred at Federation, pans of the Holsworthy Army Manoeuvre Area acquired in 1913, housing for Defence personnel, telephone exchanges (and extensions), post offices and an aerodrome. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The future structure of industry and any related shortages of skilled labour depend upon a large number of inter-related variables. Some of the main factors include the rate of growth of the economy, investment, labour market participation rates, consumer demand and overseas trade; the development and application of technology; the level and kind of assistance provided to particular industries; and increases in labour costs and labour-related costs. 
Both the Inquiry into Education and Training, chaired by Professor Williams, and the Study Group on Structural Adjustment, chaired by  Sir John  Crawford, are giving attention to future supply and demand for manpower. Their reports are expected later this year. 
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations produces twice a year short-term forecasts for up to 3 years, of the demand for a range of occupational groups. These forecasts assist immigration selection officers and officers of my Department dealing with applications for vocational training assistance. 
It is hoped that the development of the IMPACT project will enable us to acquire a better understanding of the kinds of changes in industry and manpower requirements that are likely to emerge in the medium term. 
Regarding training for the skilled trades, the following measures have been taken: 
The Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training (CRAFT) was introduced in January 1977. CRAFT provides rebates for employers who release apprentices during paid time for technical education and approved off-the-job training, and allowances to apprentices compelled to live away from home to follow their apprenticeship. In the year 1976-77, the national apprentice intake increased significantly over the previous year. In 1977-78, a further small increase over the 1976-77 figure has been recorded. However, it is apparent that this national improvement embraces wide variations between States and the Territories and my Departure will be studying this aspect further in the near future. 
The Group One- Year Scheme provides for apprentices taken on by private employers to receive their first year of training in a Commonwealth establishment before returning to their employers to complete the term of apprenticeship. The Commonwealth pays the wages and all related training costs during the year, the employers remaining responsible only for Workers Compensation premiums. The Scheme was introduced in 1975 on a pilot basis and has since been expanded. Currently, some 220 apprentices are being trained in this way. Additionally, in 1978, the scheme has been extended on a pilot basis to certain State Government establishments in South Australia and Queensland, the Commonwealth refunding costs on the same basis. This extension is still under development, but currently some 54 apprentices have been placed for training. 
The Special Assistance Program for Apprentices under NEAT provides assistance to employers in order to sustain apprentices in training whose employment is jeopardised by work shortage or temporary financial problems encountered by their employers. At the end of June 1978, employers of 871 apprentices were being assisted in this way. 
At my request, the National Training Council has for some months been studying the possibility of supplementing the output to the skilled labour force from apprenticeship. The operative word here is "supplementing'. It is not the intention that any such proposal should replace apprenticeship. I expect to receive proposals from the Council in the very near future for consideration and discussion with all parties concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Investigation of all projects in South Australia has revealed that only those projects directly sponsored by local government bodies have purchased materials and equipment free of sales tax. To date, only 4 projects have been involved. 
No. Grants made under CYSS are made upon the condition that items of equipment valued at more than $ 100 are to be given to the Commonwealth at the completion of the project. 
Not applicable. 
, (5) and (6) My Department is currently investigating the desirability and feasibility of exempting from sales tax, the material and equipment purchases of all CYSS projects. As a part of this investigation the advice of the Commissioner for Taxation is being sought. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) I am not aware of the terms of any communication between the Victorian Minister for Health and the Broadmeadows City Council relating to the former Commonwealth Serum Laboratory land at Broadmeadows. 
Yes. 
(a) and (b) No decision to dispose of part of the former CSL land has yet been made. Correspondence with the Hospitals and Charities Commission commenced on 6 September 1977. 
and (d) The Department of Administrative Services has advised the Commission that it is prepared to recommend disposal at valuation. Negotiations will conclude if and when agreement on price is reached. 
The area being considered for disposal is 27.17 hectares. The value of the land is a matter for negotiation between the parties. 
National Disasters: Provision of Stores and Equipment by Defence Forces (Question No. 1063) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At the present time the Government intends that Commonwealth Employment Service unemployment statistics by employment office area continue to be collected and published, 
The Department is currently in the process of introducing a computerised system for the collection of statistics, which will improve their detail and accuracy. The system recently received the support of the Interdepartmental 
Committee on Automatic Data Processing and implementation is planned to commence initially in Queensland in April 1979. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) 238 officers and employees of the Department of Administrative Services at present have their home telephone rentals or charges fully or partially paid by the Department. 
The cost to the Department of Administrative Services for telephone services installed in the residences of officers and employees in 1976-77 was $36,691. This amount includes $2,260 in respect of services in residence of officers whose functions were transferred to the Department of Home Affairs when it was created on 20 December 1977. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The total area of land in the Electoral Division of Lalor owned by the Commonwealth or Commonwealth Statutory Authorities is 2022.758 hectares. 
The attached schedule of properties shows in respect of each property: name location user department or authority area of property purpose of acquisition current use proposed long term use rates paid 
Property: St Albans Post Office. 
Location: Main Road, West St Albans 302 1 . 
Department or Instrumentality: Postal Commission. 
Total area: 0. 1 1 5 1 hectares. 
Purpose of acquisition: Post Office. 
Current Commonwealth use: Post Office Official, Vacant Urban Land. 
Proposed short term use: As above. 
Proposed long term use: As above. 
Rates paid: MMBW: $120.01, Council: Nil, Other: Nil. 
Property: St Albans Telephone Exchange. 
Location: 1 Victoria Crescent, St Albans 302 1 . 
Department or Instrumentality: Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
Total area: 0.1831 hectares. 
Purpose of acquisition: Automatic Exchange. 
Current Commonwealth use: Automatic Exchange. 
Proposed short term use: As above. 
Proposed long term use: As above. 
Rates paid: MMBW: Nil, Council: Nil, Other: Nil. 
Property: Altona Telephone Exchange. 
Location: 53a Blyth Street, Altona 30 1 8. 
Department or Instrumentality: Australia., telecommunications Commission. 
Total area: 0. 1 100 hectares. 
Purpose of acquisition: Exchange (Telephone). 
Current Commonwealth use: Telephone Exchange  (Major). 
Proposed short term use: As above. 
Proposed long term use: As above. 
Rates paid: MMBW: $85.00, Council: Nil, Other: Nil. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Commonwealth Police 
(a) (i) $30,476,700, (ii) $27,098,900, (iii) $35,002,900; (b) Appropriations are broken up into divisions. 
Auditor-General 
The Force was established under the Commonwealth Police Act, 1957 and came into operation in 1960. 
The most recent inquiry into the Commonwealth Police was undertaken in March, 1978 by  Sir Robert  Mark.  His  report was tabled in Parliament on 1 3 April 1978. 
1 ) Australian Electoral Office 
(a) (i) $15,412,200, (ii) $19,734,800, (iii) $21,914,000; (b) Appropriations are broken up into divisions. 
Auditor-General 
The Office was established in 1973 under the Australian Electoral Office Act 1 973. 
A review of the structure, systems and facilities of the Australian Electoral Office was carried out in 1974 by a team comprising W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd together with representatives of the Australian Electoral Office and the Public Service Board. The report which was presented in November 1974 was not tabled in Parliament. 
1 ) Commonwealth Grants Commission 
(a) (i) $843,500, (ii) $684,400, (iii) $652,200; (b) Appropriations are broken up into divisions. 
Auditor-General 
Commonwealth Grants Commission Act, 1 933 
5 ) There has not been a recent review of the Commission which resulted in a report to Parliament. Its present role and functions, as reflected in amendments to the Act in 1976 and 1978, have arisen from agreements made at Premiers' Conferences. 
Remuneration Tribunal and Academic Salaries Tribunal 
(a) (i) $304,700, (ii) $302,600, (iii) $283,200; (b) Appropriations are broken up into divisions. 
3 ) Auditor-General 
The Remuneration Tribunal was established 1973 under the Remunerations Tribunals Act 1973. The Academic Salaries Tribunal was established in 1 974 under the Act  as  amended by the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1 974. 
There has not been a review or inquiry into either Tribunal resulting in a report to Parliament. 
British Phosphate Commissioners (BPC) Christmas Island Phosphate Commission (CIPC). 
Funds are not appropriated in the budget to either body. 
Touche Ross and Co., Melbourne 
The BPC was established under the Nauru Island Agreement Act, 1919 and commenced operations in 1920. (2)(a)and(b) 
The CIPC was established under the Christmas Island Agreement Act, 1949. 
There has not been an inquiry into either body which has resulted in a report being made available to Parliament. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Education  (Question No. 1353) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Administrative Services has been able to make recycling arrangements for waste paper in all States, except Western Australia and in the Northern Territory, where there is insufficient demand for recycled waste. The arrangements have been effected by the Department in its role as manager of Commonwealth property and pertain to office premises in capital cities only. Other materials such as metals and glass occur in insufficient quantities in most Commonwealth departments for recycling arrangements to be feasible. 
The Department is conscious of the advantages of recycling and will make suitable arrangements whenever possible. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (ii) Charges are recorded on a State basis. The costs for the States of Queensland and New South Wales in the cost period 4 July 1977 to 4 June 1978 were: 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1 973 I present the Remuneration Tribunal Review 1978. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As mentioned in the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 468 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978), the Departments of Administrative Services and Finance recently undertook a review of the purchase by departments of newspapers and periodicals of a general nature. The following tables show an estimate of annual purchases by each department of a group of newspapers and periodicals of a general nature, based on actual purchases in November 1977, and the assessed cost of those purchases over a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) Information in the form requested is not available. In view of the volume of requests and the time involved in extracting such information as is available I have arranged for local offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, when requested by a Member of Parliament, to provide any readily available raw data which may be relevant to the question. 
I move: 
That this House disapproves the following determinations, dated 19 June 1978, of the Remuneration Tribunal- 1978/6- Determination of Allowances Payable to Ministers of State 1978/7- Determination of Additional Salaries and Allowances of Office Holders of the Parliament. 
Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced on 2 1 June the Government's intention of moving that determinations 1978/6 and 1978/7 of the Remuneration Tribunal be disapproved. The determinations cover special and travel allowances payable to Ministers and additional salaries and allowances payable to office holders of the Parliament. In reaching its decision, the Government felt strongly that it should set an example of restraint to the community. It had stressed to the Remuneration Tribunal that it considered that there should be no salary increases for those within the Tribunal's jurisdiction. This was consistent with an overall commitment to wage restraint which formed the basis of the Government's submission to national wage indexation hearings. Regrettably, the Tribunal did not accept the thrust of the Government 's argument. 
I should also mention to honourable members that the Government does not intend to proceed with the implementation of the Tribunal's report 1978/1 which proposes increases in ministerial salaries. The Tribunal's recommendations in respect of judges, however, have been accepted and the Government does not intend to take action to disapprove the other findings of the Tribunal, including those relating to senators and members. In the light of the Tribunal's findings, it is the Government's view that these people should not be denied increases which reflect salary adjustments enjoyed by the great majority of Australian wage and salary earners as a result of national wage case decisions. They have already contributed substantially to restraint through the considerable lags involved in the adjustment of their salaries. I have moved for disapproval of determinations Nos 6 and 7, in accordance with the Government's decision reached after examining the Remuneration Tribunal's report, so that the disapproval may be effective from this date. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised a point which needs to be answered. He referred to a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicating that the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal in relation to the staff of the Opposition have not been fully agreed to. It has been longestablished practice, accepted and adhered to by the previous Labor Government as it is by this Government, that staffing for Opposition parties is the responsibility of the government of the day and is not a proper matter for determination by the Tribunal whose comments on the matter, therefore, the Government regards as being of a recommendatory nature. Given the Government's current commitment to strict control over public sector expenditure and employment, I put it to the House that the provision of 10 additional staff, making a total of 44, to assist the Opposition can be regarded in these circumstances as generous. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Yes, I table those papers. I point out to the House that the Australian Electoral Office over the years has adopted the practice of preparing research papers on a variety of electoral matters including analyses of initial proposals prepared by Distribution Commissioners. Analyses of initial proposals by Distribution Commissioners have been prepared at least since 1973 for the information of the Electoral Office and the Minister responsible for the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Research papers are disseminated to State offices of the Australian Electoral Office in order to keep them abreast of developments which may affect their day to day operations. 
The analyses of the 1977 initial proposals of the Distribution Commissioners, which I have just tabled were not circulated to the States, as has been alleged by the Opposition, on 15 August 1978 at the direction of  Senator Withers.  The Australian Electoral Office has advised that  Senator Withers  was unaware of the distribution to the State offices, which was done by the central office of the Australian Electoral Office merely as part of the administrative process to which I have referred. The initials on the covering note to the Queensland office to which reference has been made are those of the Director of Research in the Australian Electoral Office,  Dr R.  P. L. Howie, and not those of  Senator Withers,  the then Minister. 
-My attention has been drawn to reports such as those which the honourable gentleman indicated. It might be useful if I were to remind the House that last Friday I chaired a meeting in Sydney attended by growers, exporters, representatives of the government departments concerned and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which considered  Mr Miller's  report and also the report of the tripartite mission to the Middle East on developing our carcass and package meat trade in that area. The Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union was invited to attend that conference but did not do so. I must say that I find that very strange in view of the Miller findings and the findings of the mission. I remind the House that the AMIEU was a member of the tripartite mission. One of the most significant of  Mr Miller's  findings, as the honourable gentleman has said, is that the net effect of the live sheep export trade has been to generate greater income and more jobs. The report did point to employment problems in the meat industry, but they were due to broader economic factors and not to the live sheep export trade. The Government for its pan has indicated that it is willing to consider an inquiry into those aspects raised by  Mr Miller,  after discussion with the industry, provided of course that there are no restrictions on trade. The Miller report was quite specific in relation to any imposition of quotas or ratios on live sheep. It said that the result of that would eventually be not only loss of jobs overall but, specifically, loss of jobs in the meat industry. I therefore find it extraordinary that a union claiming to represent the interests of its members not only rejected a report by a highly respected, impartial expert but also is talking about reimposing bans which will have the effect of losing jobs in that industry. 
To sum up, the Government for its part has responded to the Middle East mission by establishing an advisory group to the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation on the development of our carcass trade in the Middle East and by providing more funds to develop that trade. It has indicated that provided there are no restrictions it will consider an inquiry into the employment aspects identified by  Mr Miller,  which have nothing to do with the live sheep trade. Trade worth hundreds of millions of dollars is involved in this issue. It makes a substantial contribution to our overseas earnings and to building up the meat industry not only in the livestock form but also in the carcass form. It will ensure more jobs and more job security in that industry. I urge rank and file members of the AMIEU to look very closely at the policies being pursued by their leaders because if they continue to pursue them they will lose jobs in their industry. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957 I present the report of the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police Force for the year ended 30 June 1978 
My purpose in entering this debate is to put the industrial relations implications of this dispute into context. To do that it will be necessary for me to refer to some very recent history. Before I do so I want to make one thing quite clear. I wish to answer the allegations made by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  to the effect that the Government has directed the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I make a categorical denial of that. At no time has the Government directed Telecom. The Government has maintained close co-operation with Telecom and supports it. 
-I shall come to that in a minute. But the Government has not directed Telecom; nor has the co-ordinating committee been involved in any way, The honourable member for Melbourne ought to check his facts for a change. 
What was that? 
Order! The honourable member for Melbourne will withdraw that remark. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Fire Board considered fire hose couplings of 38 mm diameter and 63 mm diameter. 
Most hose couplings in Australia are of the screwed type but, because of the various thread forms used, there is no interchangeability. 
Two quick action type hose couplings are in use to a lesser, but increasing, extent. They are: 
British Instantaneous Coupling (BIC) 
STORZ hermaphrodite coupling. 
A complete list of the types of couplings used by authorities and organisations in Australia is not available, but the following is the general position as regards the States: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Rule 47 of the registered rules of the Australian Workers' Union provides that ballots for the election of Federal officers are to be conducted 'at the same time and places and in the same manner as the ballots for theelection of Branch officers'. 
Rule 69 provides that a Branch Executive shall decide upon the date when ballots for the election of Branch officers shall commence. The rules do not require elections in all Branches to be conducted simultaneously. 
Pursuant to rules 45 and 68, nominations for each Federal and Branch office close 'not later than the 21st day of June immediately preceding the election' for that office. Since, by virtue of rules 47 and 69, ballots for these offices close between 1 December and 18 December, then it would seem to be the case that nominations for each position close in the same year as the ballot for that position would be conducted. 
So far as Branch offices are concerned, rule 68 fixes a minimum period of 28 days for which nominations are to remain open. Thus, although no precise opening date is given, nominations for a Branch office must open not later than 25 May in the year in which the ballot for the office concerned would be conducted. 
The rules do not indicate an opening date for nominations for Federal offices. 
Although no opening date is specified for nominations for Branch offices, as I have pointed out in my answer to (2), nominations for those offices must open not later than 25 May in the year in which the ballots for the offices concerned would be conducted. 
On my reading of the rules, in particular rules 58a and 68, it would appear to be the responsibility of the Branch Returning Officer to fix the opening date for nominations for Branch offices. 
Nominations for Branch offices must be called for, under rule 68, in the Union journal. On the other hand, no such requirement exists in respect of the Federal offices of President, General Secretary and Vice-Presidents. 
I am informed that for some time elections in the union for Federal and Branch offices have been conducted by the Australian Electoral Office and that at the last election for the Federal offices of President, General Secretary and VicePresidents, the opening and closing dates for nominations were advertised by the Returning Officer in the union journal,'The Worker' of 29 April 1977. 
As previously mentioned, the closing date for nominations for each Federal office is fixed by rule 45 as the 2 1st day of June immediately preceding the election for the position concerned. It is not possible to ascertain from the rules the opening date for nominations for Federal positions. 
Rule 69 provides that ballots for Branch offices are to close between 1 December and 18 December. Further provision is made fixing a minimum period of at least twelve weeks for which a ballot is to be open. Consequently, the latest date on which a ballot for a Branch office may be opened is not later than 25 September. Since under rule 47 ballots for Federal offices are to be conducted at the same time and places and in the same manner as the ballots for the elections of Branch offices, then these dates are also applicable to ballots for Federal offices. 
On this point it is relevant to mention that regulations 136a to 136E of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations which came into operation on 2 1 March 1977 require the regular filing of returns by each registered organisation with the Industrial Registrar, giving details concerning the offices for which nominations might be called or made in the following year, and the time and date of the commencement and closing of the relevant nomination periods. The information is published by the Industrial Registrar by notice in the newspaper or newspapers most likely to bring the notice to the attention of the members of the relevant organisation. I am informed that the Australian Workers' Union is complying with these requirements. 
Whether the provisions in the rules of the Australian Workers' Union are sufficient to meet the requirements of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act would be a matter for determination by the Federal Court. 
Section 133 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act requires the rules of organisations to make provisions relating to the conduct of elections, including provisions as to nominations and ballots. 
Where such rules do not comply with these requirements of section 133, the Industrial Registrar is empowered under the section, after inviting the organisation concerned to consult with him, to determine such alterations of the rules as will, in his opinion, bring them into conformity with those requirements. 
The Industrial Registrar may also be required to determine alterations of an organisation's rules where a declaration is made by the Federal Court, on the application of a member of the organisation pursuant to section 140 of the Act, that a rule or rules are in contravention of that section. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Commissioner, Commonwealth Police. 
I am informed that, of the occupants of the car, only the Right Honourable the Prime Minister drove. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Question No. 1354) 
The question of conscientious objection to unionism is one which I think is of concern to the whole Australian community as well as to the union- 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Trade Union Training Authority Act 1975, I present the report of the Australian Trade Union Training Authority for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
I have always found it strange that the Opposition should actually choose to talk about the unemployment situation because it was under an Australian Labor Party Government that the policy of full employment was destroyed. Just let the facts speak for themselves. It was under the Labor Party that 190,000 Australians lost their jobs in one year alone. It was under the Labor Party that youth unemployment, to which the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  paid considerable attention, doubled. During its period in government the number of young people under 19 years of age out of work doubled. When it came to government something like 138,000 people registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service. When it left government in the same month three years later- the same time of the year- 328,000 Australians were registered for employment. There is no doubt whatever where the blame lies for the destruction of the long held concept of full employment in Australia. The disastrous economic miscalculations of the Labor Government during those years were responsible for throwing that policy of full employment out the window. Not only did the Labor Party in those days condone totally irresponsible wage demands but also it actually encouraged them. It actually encouraged some Australians to throw others out of work. In that one respect it was successful. About the only legacy of success that the Labor Party Government left this country was its success in persuading some Australians to get more money so that fewer Australians could be employed. 
The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in reply to the Budget proves beyond any doubt that the Labor Party would do it all over again if it had the chance. To do the honourable member for Port Adelaide credit, at least he did not peddle the irresponsible policies of his leader. He said nothing at all about policies. He knows, as anybody with any sense knows, that the policies which the Leader of the Opposition put forward in his reply to the Budget will have the same result as did the policies he had when the Labor Party was in government. Recent experience shows without any doubt that we can spend our way into unemployment. That is exactly what the Labor Party did when it was in government. It spent Australia's way into unemployment. But recent experience shows that we cannot spend our way out of unemployment. That is exactly what it proposed to do. Having spent its way into unemployment, it then tried to spend its way out of it, with even more disastrous results. Labor has not learned a thing; it would try to do it all again. It just refuses to accept the simple facts. Everybody else recognises these facts; not only people in Australia but people overseas as well. 
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has supported our policies. Only in the last week or so the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade has endorsed our policies as well. But no, the Australian Labor Party will not do so. In respect to this problem it is like an ostrich. It sticks its head in the sand and refuses to face the facts. It refuses to acknowledge that its policy of full wage indexation is quite disastrous for employment prospects. It refuses to acknowledge the findings of the recent conference of economists which was held in Canberra and which overwhelmingly came to the conclusion that wage restraint is absolutely essential. In fact, at that conference a view was put that a wage freeze would be better. We know what the Labor Party did when that move was proposed some time ago. The ALP would have none of it at all. There is no doubt whatever that having got Australia into the employment troubles that it is in, if it had the chance it would make sure that the problems were perpetuated. Experience all over the world shows that the economic strategy that we are pursuing by reducing inflation and improving our balance of trade through increased competitiveness of our industries, not only through the ability to compete on the overseas market but also through the ability to compete at home against imports, is an absolute pre-requisite for an improvement in the employment situation in Australia. As recently as a couple of months ago the OECD stated:   . . it would be inappropriate for all countries to play an  equiproportionate  part in a general expansion. Where inflation is an overriding constraint, countries should avoid action to stimulate domestic demand, and in a few cases might be well advised to reduce it. Where an overriding constraint is the current balance position, countries should avoid taking stimulating action . . . 
Sustained improvement in employment can be achieved only by creating the economic circumstances under which real and not artificial opportunities can be opened up. It may be true that governments can spend their way into a temporary improvement in the employment situation but that will be only at the cost of building up a bigger problem, a longer lasting problem, in the future. That is what the Labor Party is proposing to do. In contrast, I would like to point out some of the positive steps that the Government has been able to achieve. Of course, pre-eminent in all of this has been a dramatic reduction in the rate of inflation. I refer to the answer given by the Treasurer to a question asked in this House earlier this afternoon in which he pointed out that the latest figures show that Australia's relative position in the inflation table published by the OECD has improved very substantially. We are now doing better than most countries. It is only as a result of doing better that we will be able to increase our competitiveness and increase Australia 's attraction as a country in which to invest, not only for overseas investors but also for existing domestic industry to expand with confidence. 
The profit share of gross domestic product, which is represented by company profits, is improving, but it is improving very slowly. It is still below the historic average; it is still below the rate at which companies should be earning in order to invest in their own future and in the future job opportunities for Australians. There has been quite a substantial improvement in business investment. Of course, that is as a direct result of the policies pursued by this Government. People have more confidence in the future and therefore they have, to a very considerable extent, improved business investment. That is in direct contrast to what happened under the Labor Government when private capital investment fell to disastrous levels because, quite rightly, companies had no confidence in the Government which was then in power. For the results of this investment to be fully reflected in increased employment opportunities, wage increases must be kept to an absolute minimum. I have gone over the recent experiences with regard to that matter, including the conference which was held in Canberra in the last few weeks. 
It is clear that wages are still too high following the 1973-74 wages explosion, even though this Government consistently has argued before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with some success for wage increases to be kept below the full flow-on of the consumer price index. In contrast, of course, the Opposition's policy still is to go for full reflection of the CPI in increased wages. The Opposition's line in keeping wages at least equal to the CPI in itself is a clear indication of its willingness to encourage those people who are lucky enough to have jobs to go for wage increases which will make it inevitably more difficult for those people without jobs to get employment. If it gets more money for people in employment in Australia today, it will make it more difficult for those people who do not have a job. The first man to recognise that fact and to put it in words that were much the same in content, although they might have been different in detail, was a Labor Treasurer,  Mr Frank  Crean. He said: 
The stage has been reached where an increase in one man 's pay packet costs another man his job. 
He said it and I agree with it, but the Labor Party still follows the old lines. Some unions irresponsibly go outside the wage indexation guidelines to use their industrial muscle to get wage increases, which will ensure that unemployment in Australia remains a problem, even though those people with secure jobs may feel that they can go outside the wage indexation guidelines to get more money. What does the Opposition say about that? There has been no condemnation of union action which will guarantee that fewer people in Australia will get a job. We realise that the only responsible course is to pursue and continue the present policy. Within the limits that we have set ourselves of getting the Budget deficit down, getting inflation down and getting interest rates down, we have done a great deal in the employment market. 
We have upgraded the Commonwealth Employment Service considerably. In the three years of Labor Government, not one thing did it do about the Commonwealth Employment Service. Of course we have instituted the recommendations of the Norgard inquiry and, as a result, the CES is now operating better and it is filling vacancies more quickly and more effectively. The expansion of the National Employment and Training scheme has been nothing short of dramatic. Numbers of people in training at the end of June 1978 were six times higher than the level in December 1975 when the Labor Government went out of office. The Budget allocation this year- one of the few increases, but a huge onehas been increased by 44 per cent to $179m for the training programs during the current financial year. As a result, about 1 10,000 people are expected to be able to gain a new skill which they previously did not have. In the 12 months to June 1978 the numbers in the Special Youth Employment Training Program increased by 348 per cent to over 33,000 people. That scheme, of course, was introduced by this Government. We have increased support for the Commonwealth apprenticeship program, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training. We have introduced the Community Youth Support scheme which has had about 570 projects in operation since its inception a couple of years ago and nearly 45,000 young people have been helped. We introduced the Relocation Assistance Scheme to help unemployed people with their relocation expenses when they moved to a place where they were offered permanent employment. We have increased the money available for that scheme. 
The only real long term solution is to encourage business stability. That is the only way in which new jobs will be created. We will continue to pursue our economic policies because they are the only ones which will lead to a permanent as distinct from an illusiory increase in employment. Artificial job creation schemes are not the answer to full time permanent employment. At the meeting in Brisbane last Friday of Ministers who have responsibility for employment and industrial relations matters- these meetings normally are held twice a year- it was agreed that more attention needed to be paid to the employment problem. As a result we are holding a special meeting at the end of November by which time we hope that the interdepartmental committee report on technical change, the Williams report on the connection between education and work and the report of the Crawford group which is looking into the structure of Australian industry will have been presented. That Ministers' meeting will have the advantage of having those reports before it. We believe that that meeting will provide a proper and the most effective forum for the detailed discussion of the employment problem. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
With the indulgence of the House I would like to add to an answer I gave to a question at Question Time. In answer to a question from the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  at Question Time I referred to the number of certificates of conscientious objection to unionism which have been issued. I said that I thought that the number was about ISO. In fact I am advised that 151 certificates are current, of which 149 have been issued under the new section 144A enacted by this Government. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are no schemes involving employee subsidies at present being financed by the Australian Government. There are, however, a number of schemes involving subsidies paid to employers in respect of employees in training. These are: 
some sections of the National Employment and Training System (NEAT) 
b) the Manpower Development Officer Subsidy Scheme 
the Group Training Scheme 
the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training (CRAFT) 
the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme (residual payments only) 
f) the Additional Apprentices Scheme 
the Group One- Year Scheme in Commonwealth Departments 
the Group One-Year Scheme in State Government Establishments (pilot project) 
the Special Assistance Programme for employers of apprentices. 
Details of these schemes are set out below: 
The National Employment and Training Scheme (NEAT) provides, among other things, on-the-job training assistance to persons who- 
are unemployed or under threat of retrenchment: 
are able and willing to undertake training for employment in occupations for which there is a demand for labour; and 
do not possess skills which would enable them to find employment without training. 
Persons cannot be considered for NEAT assistance until they have been away from full-time education (including tertiary education) for at least 4 months. 
Training assistance cannot be approved for a period longer than the time already spent by the trainee in the workforce. 
The Special Youth Employment Training Programme provisions of NEAT, in addition to the general eligibility criteria, stipulate that trainees must be- 
15 to 24 years old; 
at least 4 months away from full-time education in the last 12 months; and 
unemployed at least 4 months in the last 12 months. 
The Manpower Development Officer Subsidy Scheme provides subsidies to employer associations, employee associations, trade associations and recognised industry training committees in respect of the training and employment of Manpower Development Officers (for the full period of training and for 4 years of employment). The duties of these officers must be in accordance with guidelines laid down by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Qualifications of the persons whose positions are being subsidised must be such that their duties can be effectively carried out. 
The Group Training Scheme provides subsidy to firms which do not employ a training officer or equivalent, either full-time or part-time, and which are privately owned, having only 1 or 2 persons who make all critical management decisions without the aid of internal specialists. The subsidy is in respect of a Group Training Officer shared by a number of these firms. 
The Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training (CRAFT), introduced on 14 January 1977, provides rebates to employers of apprentices for- 
release of apprentices to basic trade courses of technical education. These courses are compulsory for most apprentices; 
release of apprentices to approved courses of full-time off-the-job training. Release to these courses which are organised by employers themselves, is not compulsory; and 
under certain specific conditions, assistance with recurrent costs incurred by employers in providing off-the-job training. 
In addition, CRAFT provides livingawayfromhome allowances for first and second year apprentices compelled to move away from home to obtain or remain in apprenticeship. 
Residual payments are still being made in respect of the Employers' Incentive Subsidy under the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme (NAAS) which was replaced by CRAFT on 14 January 1977. 
Under the Additional Apprentices Scheme, arrangements were made for certain Commonwealth and State Government establishments to provide complete apprenticeships over and above their own training requirements, thus utilising valuable surplus training capacity. The entire cost of these apprenticeships is met by the Commonwealth, and apprentices on completion of training are available to private industry. This scheme is now being phased down in favour of the Group One- Year Scheme. 
Under the Group One- Year Scheme in Commonwealth Departments, apprentices taken on by private employers receive their first year of training in Commonwealth establishments then return to their employer to complete their term of apprenticeship. During the first year their wages and all training costs are paid by the Commonwealth, the private employer only being responsible for workers compensation premiums. 
The Group One- Year Scheme is being extended this year to State Government establishments on a trial basis. In this scheme the same provisions apply as in the Group One- Year Scheme in Commonwealth Departments. 
The Special Assistance Programme is designed to assist employers of apprentices whose employment is in jeopardy because of temporary work shortage and financial problems experienced by their employers. 
These subsidies are essentially designed to increase training, including skilled training opportunities available in the community. 
(a) Records kept of employers participating in NEAT do not provide details of numbers of individual employers and it is impossible to provide an answer to that part of the question. 
As at 30 June 1978, 47,508 trainees were in training under NEAT; 42,877 on-the-job and 4,63 1 in formal training. 
In the Manpower Development Officer Subsidy Scheme there are currently 45 employers covering 55 employees under subsidy. 
In the Group Training Scheme there are 31 employers covering 3 employees under subsidy. 
Employers and apprentices involved in the various apprenticeship support programs are as follows- 
Technical Education Rebate under CRAFT Claims for 1977 received up to 30 June 1978 were: 14,628 employers 27,464 apprentices. (Employers have 6 months from the end of the period claimed to submit claims). 
Off-the Job Training Rebate under CRAFT 
Since the length of off-the-job training courses can vary from 20 to 260 working days, the numbers covered by this form of assistance fluctuate considerably. However, during 1977-78, the average numbers approved quarterly were: 
Employers, 199; Apprentices, 2,275. 
NAAS Employers' Incentive Subsidy residual payments 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The National Labour Consultative Council Act 1977 established the National Labour Consultative Council. This Council is continuing. Membership of the council includes the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. 
The Trade Union Training Authority Act 1 975 established the Australian Council for Union Training. This Council is continuing. Membership of the Council includes one member of parliament appointed by the Prime Minister, and one member of parliament appointed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department's submission is available to any Member of the Parliament. I should add that it is only one of no fewer than 464 separate submissions received by the Inquiry. 
Mid August 1977. 
The Department's submission was forwarded to the Committee by the Permanent Head and he is therefore in the final analysis responsible for it. 
I have been informed that the few maintenance workers who were the original cause of this strike have agreed to put their claims to arbitration, and on a resumption of work. I have only heard this information in the last few minutes, so I do not have the precise details. I certainly hope, as I would imagine the whole Australian community hopes, that this unnecessary and crippling strike has ended. It has caused great hardship to thousands of individuals and untold damage to business. It has advantaged no one. It is a tragic example of the worst kind of industrial irresponsibility. 
by leave- For the information of honourable members I present copies of minutes from the Chief Electoral Officer to the then Minister for Administrative Services in respect of the preliminary analyses for Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania; a copy of a memorandum sent to the Australian Electoral Officer for Tasmania, 29 July 1977; a copy of compliments slips sent to the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland, 12 August 1977, and to the Australian Electoral Officer for South Australia, 1 7 August 1 977; and a copy of a memorandum from the Chief Australian Electoral Officer to the Australian electoral officers in all States, 24 March 1977. 
In the House on 23 August 1978 the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  asked whether, in addition to the analyses of the electoral distribution proposals in respect of the six States which had already been tabled, copies of the communications between the Electoral Office and the then Minister and the Electoral Office and the States in respect of those analyses could also be tabled. The covering minutes are not part of the analyses but the Government is happy to make them available. I have been informed that in respect of New South 
Wales and Victoria the analyses were sent to the Minister with no covering note. 
As for the communications with the State branches of the Electoral Office, I am informed that the sending of the analyses to them was regarded as a matter of routine dispatch under compliments slips. Only in the case of Tasmania was there a covering memorandum which dealt with an additional subject matter. Covering compliments slips are on file only in the case of Queensland and South Australia. Photocopies of these have been obtained from the States. I will have copies of all papers provided to honourable members. The method of circulation of the analyses underlines that it was done as part of the normal administrative processes of the Electoral Office. 
In this context I believe it would also be relevant to table a copy of a memorandum dated 24 March 1977 from the Chief Austraiian Electoral Officer to the Australian electoral officers in all States. This memorandum, which was an exhibit at the Royal Commission, outlines the procedure instituted by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer of providing to his State offices papers produced by the Research, Legislation and Projects Section of the Central Office of the Australian Electoral Office. It was in accordance with this procedure- and this was recognised by the Royal Commission- that the analyses were sent to the States. For the record I also retable a copy of the Victorian analysis, one page of statistics from attachment 'A' of which was inadvertently omitted from the copy tabled on 22 August. The copies provided to honourable members, however, were complete. 
When the research analyses were tabled in the Senate, questions were asked concerning the development of guidelines which might govern the distribution of analyses in the future. The then Minister for Administrative Services expressed his personal concern about the matter and indicated his intention to give it serious consideration and to make a recommendation to the Government. For the information of honourable members I can say that the present Minister agrees that the matter requires serious consideration and, once he has had an opportunity to consider it fully, he will make a statement in relation to it. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- The Opposition is not satisfied with the statement of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  It leaves questions unanswered. Firstly, what occurred last year in respect of electoral redistributions was unprecedented in every way. The election was held a year before its time, and for the first time ever the reasons of the Governor-General have never been published. Secondly, the interference by  Senator Withers  in the electoral name change was unprecedented. Thirdly, for the first time ever, political analyses of the effect of the distribution proposals were sent from the Electoral Office to the electoral commissioners in each State. Yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that he did not know whether such analyses were distributed to the electoral commissioners in the time of the Labor Government. I am able to tell him it never happened, and I suggest that he knew that. He would know that  Mr Daly,  the former Minister for Services and Property, was insistent that analyses should not be sent to the Distribution Commissioners. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations also said that the distribution of the analyses was done as part of the normal process of the Electoral Office. That is not true. I repeat that this circulation was unprecedented. Reference is made to  Mr Pearson's  letter of 24 March 1977. But really  Mr Pearson  was just indicating to his own officers that some information would be published at a later date. The question here, the serious matter here, the suggestion of a criminal offence here, is that the information about which we are now talking was not sent to just officers; it was sent to the electoral commissioners. The Electoral Act prevents anyone from doing anything by way of an overt or covert act which suggests that that person might in any way be seeking to influence the commissioners. So we cannot put the blame on  Mr Pearson  who is a very honourable public servant. What he said on 24 March 1977 in no way relates to what in fact happened- that is, the commissioners themselves being given a political analysis. We say the Government did this and therefore there is a need for a further inquiry. 
The manner of Australian redistributions is made clear by the Electoral Act. Under section 18 of the Act suggestions can be made to the distribution commissioners in response to an advertisement by the commissioners. Comments can be made on the initial suggestions and after publication of the maps there may be further suggestions or objections. Section 19 makes it clear that matters which the commissioners are to consider are virtually community of interest, population changes, et cetera. They do not have to consider the matter of political repercussions which is the whole tenor of the analyses submitted. By no stretch of the imagination could we suggest that, when we are talking about an analysis on this basis, we are in any way within the ambit of section 19. For example, I refer to the analysis for Tasmania. It states: 
An analysis of the initial proposals of distribution commissioners. 
An appendix is attached indicating how the distribution would affect voting and the electoral results, with a further attachment on the effects of proposed subdivision alterations on support for the Liberal Party in each division. There is no reference to any other party. This is no way to carry out the laws of this land. There is a complete prohibition against this practice. I remind the House of the opinion given by both the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  and the SolicitorGeneral which was tabled in this House. They referred to what they thought was the position applying under this Act. They said: 
Although it may be difficult to say the defence creating provisions such as section 1 70 apply to section 22 of the Act- 
Section 22 of the Act is a prohibition against seeking to influence the commissioners- we do not doubt that a breach of this section is likely to give rise to criminal liability. 
That is the point we made in this case. In other words, section 22 makes it an offence to write or to speak to the distribution commissioners seeking to influence them in the performance of their duties under the Act. A further point made by the SolicitorGeneral and the AttorneyGeneral was: 
Section 22 is not directed to the commissioners. Matter given in response to an inquiry or requests from them even though it might influence their determination and even though given outside the statutory procedures would not, we think, be prohibited but the section does prevent the unsolicited tender outside the procedures of matters designed to influence their determination. 
The evidence given before the McGregor Royal Commission also shows that one of the distribution commissioners in Queensland,  Mr Seymour,  was very unhappy about these analyses. 
The analyses were sent to the Minister either before or on the same day as they were sent to the commissioners. 
Yet, we are asked to believe that the Ministers and the Government knew nothing about them being sent to the commissioners. That is beyond credibility. The analyses themselves were looked at entirely from the point of view of the Government, that is from the point of view of the political interests of the Liberal Party and of the National Country Party of Australia. We are not satisfied with the statement which states that guidelines might be issued which will govern the distribution of analyses in the future. We say that a criminal act has been committed and that it should be properly investigated. In a democracy redistributions must be honest. The Electoral Office was used in 1977 as an agent for the Liberal Party. Evidence is there. Accordingly we are asking that further investigations be made as to who were really the culpable people in the Government. The commissioner himself said: 1 consider that the questions of advantage or disadvantage to political parties are alien to the proper subjects for their consideration. 
It is not possible to argue that this is a fair and reasonable statement that has been made. It is improper to suggest that it was made in the past. It was never made in the past. The real issue here which we have had to drag out of the Government is that there has been a blatant attempt by it, through its Ministers and others, to seek to influence the commissioners in all States by giving to them a political analysis virtually indicating what would be in the best interests of the Liberal and National Country parties. For that reason we seek a further inquiry as to whether criminal acts have occurred and, if they have, we say that appropriate legal proceedings should be instituted. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The number of Government cars carrying C-Star number plates totals 49. This number has remained unchanged since 1 January 1976. 
I have just received some information. I am informed that the judgment is a very long one. Naturally I have not had a chance to see it. As I am informed, one of the central points of the decision is for six-monthly hearings to be held in future. The first of these, which is to consider the June and September quarters, is, as I understand it, to start on 3 1 October. I am also informed that annual hearings will be held to look at the question of national productivity, but no hearings on that issue are to be held until the end of 1979. Clearly, the rest of the decision incorporates many points of detail which will need careful consideration by the Government. From what I have learnt so far, the decision does not go all the way with the submissions that the Government has made but it does give a better breathing space than the existing system. It will be up to all parties to take advantage of that and to work together in the interests of economic recovery and more jobs, without a repetition of the recent spate of extremely damaging industrial disruptions, which can only slow recovery and cost jobs. 
Let me try to put the present employment situation in perspective and offer my view of some of the more intractable of our difficulties. Where are we going in terms of employment and unemployment? Are we going to recover the situation we enjoyed in our labour market in the 1960s or are we to expect that the current situation will continue to persist for at least a number of years? Claims and counter claims based on information about the labour market are continually being made. Some suggest it will recover quickly. Others suggest it may never return to what Australians have commonly accepted to be full employment. The confusions and assertions tend to obscure and outweigh the careful analyses. There are reports of unemployed young people, in particular, who cannot find work despite their constant search for it. Employers want experience but are not prepared to give them a chance to acquire any. There are reports of some disillusionment, loss of morale and anti-social behaviour among young people. Equally, there are continued employer claims that they cannot get suitable workers even to fill unskilled jobs. There are continual assertions that a number of the unemployed, particularly young unemployed, do not want to work or are very selective about the work they are prepared to accept, preferring to live in company with others on unemployment benefit. This is said to be underlined, for example, by their dress and attitude at job interviews. 
Criticisms of the adequacy of the present unemployment benefit levels are also matched by concern at the increasing cost of benefit payments, which in 1977-78 were already in excess of $700m, and the feeling that these funds should be capable of being used more constructively in the interests of the unemployed and the community. 
In the 25 years which followed World War II, Australia experienced high levels of growth in population, the labour force and employment. Because of the strong demand for labour, associated with a strong domestic economy and growing world trade, Australia absorbed into employment a rapidly growing labour force. This was accomplished despite underlying substantial changes that were taking place in the structure of industry and in the composition of the labour force. Between 1954 and 1971 more than 1 .6m people were added to the labour force. In the 1960s, the labour force grew by about 120,000 each year. 
There were three main influences on labour supply over the period from 1950 to the late 1960s. First was the immigration program. Second was the influx of married women seeking employment which, in itself, was to some extent linked with the high level of migrant intake. Numerous sets of data illustrate the greater participation of females that took place. Most pertinently, the number of females in the labour force rose from 23 per cent in 1954 to 32 per cent in 1971. Over the same period, the married women component rose from 7 per cent to 1 8 per cent. The third main influence on labour supply related to changes in the teenage labour force. Up to around 1 966 there was an increase in the numbers entering the labour market. After 1966, however, the trend for young people to stay on longer in full time education was reflected in the reduced growth rate of the teenage labour force. Put another way, the increases from the growth of our teenage population were temporarily absorbed by educational institutions and did not immediately emerge to seek entry into the labour market. 
On the labour demand side, the performance of the economy in providing sufficient jobs to absorb the considerable increases in the labour force was impressive. Overall, manufacturing and particular areas of the tertiary or services sector provided most of the new jobs, although as the 1960s progressed manufacturing growth declined while the services sector continued to increase and the mining area, though still relatively small, also rose. This was a period of relative economic stability, reflected in comparatively low rates of inflation and a fairly stable relationship between wages and profits, with real wages rising more or less in line with the growth in productivity over the longer term. Here was a period of stability conducive to economic and employment growth. 
In the early years of the 1 970s the labour force continued to grow strongly, with migrants and married women still contributing to the increase at rates which maintained the trend towards the changed labour force structure developed in the two previous decades. The changing pattern in new job generation, which began to emerge in the second half of the 1960s, with the decline in importance of manufacturing industry and the rise in importance of the services sector as providers of new jobs, continued largely unabated. Economic growth continued at rates sufficient to keep unemployment low. The changes in the labour market which occurred from 1974 and which have continued since, reflect largely the continuing impact of fundamental imbalances in the economy, emanating from the 1973 and 1974 wages explosion, directly due to the policies of the Labor Government. The effect of this was a dramatic reduction in levels of investment, activity and employment. 
While the labour force continued to grow, the annual increase in the numbers of additional jobs which the economy was able to generate slowed. What had previously been a slowing in the rate of new job creation in manufacturing between 1971 and 1974 became a marked contraction of job opportunities in that sector. Between June 1974 and June 1977 over 58,000 jobs per annum were lost in manufacturing as a direct consequence of the Labor Government's policies. Moreover, employment remained virtually stable in wholesale and retail trade, while the public sector continued to grow. Overall, the previous rate of job creation was not maintained. As economic growth slowed and real unit labour costs remained abnormally high, unemployment increased significantly to reach unprecedented levels for the post-war years. The groups of people hardest hit by the slackness in the demand for labour were and are those with few skills, lack of work experience, broken job histories and low levels of education. 
Young people, Aboriginals and unskilled workers still have the highest rates of unemployment. Non-metropolitan areas generally have fewer jobs than elsewhere, and this factor tends to aggravate the difficulties of the groups hardest hit. In August this year an estimated 332,800 people were unemployed looking for fulltime work- 6.2 per cent of the fulltime labour force- and another 63,200 were unemployed looking for part time work- 6.3 per cent of the part time labour force. Of the males aged 15-19 in the full time labour force, 17 per cent were unemployed in August 1978; 17.6 per cent of female full time workers in this age group were unemployed. In July 1978 the average duration of unemployment for those seeking full time work was over 27 weeks. Unemployment in the Aboriginal labour force is probably at least five times the national average. At the end of August 1 978 the Commonwealth Employment Service had 22 persons registered for every vacancy; while the ratio for juniors was 27 for each vacancy. One factor which is often overlooked in judging these figures is the participation rate in the work force. 
In mid-1954, it was 57.6 per cent, in 1965 58.9 per cent, and in 1975 61.4 per cent. Today it stands at 61.2 per cent, so even though there has been a slight fall in the participation rate since the peak of 62.2 per cent in February 1976, we are still providing jobs for a greater proportion of our work force than in most of the post-war years. 
Recession has, of course, also hit other industrialised countries. The industrialised world is indeed in the worst recession since the Depression of the 1930s. Australia could not have expected to escape the repercussions of the international recession. However, we might have reasonably expected from our situation, for example in regard to oil, and from a history which has taught us to expect a time lag before overseas developments affect us, that the recession would not have occurred as early as it did and would not have had the severe effects it has had. Both the timing and severity of the recession in Australia were far more directly a product of what was happening here in 1973 and 1974 than what was then happening overseas. The plain fact is that at that time we decided in Australia to pay ourselves more for doing practically the same amount of work. Our wages rose well ahead of increases in our productivity. Between June 1973 and March 1978 average earnings increased by almost 100 per cent. During the same period productivity rose by about 10 per cent. In other words, the rate of increase in our earnings outstripped our increase in productivity by a factor of 10 to 1. Inevitably, prices rose and employment was affected. Only if the laws of economics had been suspended could the result have been otherwise. Indeed, they most certainly were not. In that same period, June 1973 to March 1978, the consumer price index increased by over 80 per cent and employment increased by only 2.4 per cent. In a very real sense the community is now paying the price for the excesses of those years. 
Even in its present depressed state, of course, the labour market is not static. There will always exist some vacancies at any particular time, whatever the level of unemployment. However, there is no escaping the fact that we are suffering from a gross deficiency of jobs. There are people genuinely and earnestly seeking employment who cannot find it. At today's wage rates there is a substantial shortage of jobs for those who are unemployed but who want to work. We owe it to ourselves to face the fact. If we can acknowledge that we have a real and substantial problem of unemployment in our community, and begin to understand the reasons why, then we as a community are more likely to adopt a cohesive approach. 
The Community recognises wage increases as a primary source of inflation. However, for those of you who think that the wage indexation decisions of the past couple of years are getting things rapidly right, let me mention a couple of sobering facts. Between December 1975 and December 1977, the minimum weekly wage has risen by no less than $31. If we compare the recent situation with the recession of the early 1960s we find that between December 1961 and December 1963 the minimum award wage rose by only 97c. Unemployment during that period averaged around 2 per cent. While the minimum award wage has increased between December 1975 and December 1977 by some $31, unemployment has been between 5 per cent and 7 per cent. Comparisons between the two periods must, of course, be made with caution. The labour force was smaller in the earlier period, the rate of inflation was a good deal less, and the value of money higher. Nonetheless, taking all these factors into consideration, the conclusion appears inescapable, and this is supported by recent comments of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
The Government has demonstrated its concern for the problems of the young. I acknowledge that there are differences of view about the role of government. Differences in political approach and philosophy are to be expected and are perhaps a sign of the basically healthy state of our system. Whatever these differences of view, however, I want to point out that with all the widespread variations in approach to the contemporary problems of unemployment in the industrialised countries of the world, not one has yet solved all the problems. 
During the time of the Labor Government, we saw wages outstrip productivity, inflation and inflationary expectations increase at an alarming rate, and demand, investment and confidence fall. As a Government we believe these problems are fundamental to the present predicament in the labour market. We have, therefore, consistently advocated maximum restraint in wages increases and sought to improve productivity. We have adopted policies to reduce inflation and improve demand, investment and confidence. There is increasing acceptance that our policies have achieved substantial improvement, particularly when it is recalled that we inherited a deteriorating economy and worsening world trade. We have also implemented specific programs which support and complement our economic strategy for tackling unemployment. For example, we appointed the Norgard inquiry and are now taking steps as a result to develop the Commonwealth Employment Service into a modern and efficient employment and counselling service. We have introduced a number of manpower programs to overcome labour market difficulties- particularly those of young people. These programs provide people with skills and work experience to enhance their prospects of stable employment. 
The vocational training programs under the National Employment and Training scheme have been expanded and brought closer to the productive requirements of industry and the employment needs of individuals. Special training programs for the disadvantaged have also been expanded under NEAT and a new employment and training strategy launched to assist Aboriginals. The number of trainees under NEAT, including the Special Youth Employment Training Program, has increased dramatically since we came to Government in 1975, and indeed has outstripped our expectation. With little more than doubling of expenditure, numbers in training at the end of June 1978 were more than six times the level of December 1975. There has been a major change in the nature of the training- from formal courses to on-the-job training which is more directly related to industry's needs. Over 90 per cent of the training assisted under NEAT is now on-the-job training. Only one-third of the total in training in December 1975 were training on the job. The apprenticeship support programs have been redesigned to improve the output of tradesmen by increasing intakes and reducing wastage rates. We have provided a significantly greater share of education resources to the technical and further education sector. 
The particular emphasis we have given to providing training for the young is best illustrated by the Special Youth Employment Training Program. We have used this program to assist the transition from education to work of those young people who have experienced more difficulty than the majority of their contemporaries. We have made provision for remedial education assistance, under the Education 
Program for Unemployed Youth, for those young unemployed people who are particularly disadvantaged in obtaining satisfactory employment. In addition, support has been provided for the unemployed young through the Community Youth Support Scheme. More than 60,000 young people have been assisted under SYETP since we introduced the program in October 1976. Approximately 45,000 young people have been assisted under CYSS since the inception of the program. 
Geographic imbalance in job opportunities has been one of the few structural labour market problems which has been consistently visible over a long period. The Government introduced and subsequently expanded a scheme of assistance for relocation of individuals. There have been many suggestions that we should also have established job creation or unemployment relief schemes. Some people see these schemes as a simple and costless answer to unemployment. The argument is usually on the lines that instead of paying unemployment benefit for no return, grants be made to local authorities to employ the unemployed on local services. Unfortunately, this is far from a costless solution, as our predecessors' experience with their Regional Employment Development scheme demonstrated. Employing the unemployed at the minimum wage, which presumably is what the community would expect, with all the overheads associated with employment- workers' compensation, accommodation, tools, materials, supervision, administration of such matters as wages, recordkeeping, et cetera- would far exceed the savings which might be made in unemployment benefit payments and increases in taxation. And, of course, not all the unemployed are unemployment benefit recipients. The overall cost per person would very likely be of the order of $200 to $250 per week. That would necessitate very considerable additional public expenditure that would have to be provided by reduced expenditure elsewhere, increased taxation or an increased deficit. Obviously such action at this time would worsen the prospects for economic recovery and increased job opportunities. It might well increase, rather than decrease, unemployment. 
Despite the success of our manpower programs overall, problems of unemployment have continued. In recent months the number of civilian employees has been falling, and as of June 1 978 was marginally less than the number a year earlier. The trend in private sector employment, where the major improvement in employment opportunities must take place, has also been steadily downward; it has fallen 48,000 in the last twelve months. The major influence on this movement is the contraction of employment in manufacturing industry evidenced by a decrease of 34,000 jobs over the year. While the actual decline in employment was concentrated in the manufacturing industry, employment growth across all industries has been stagnant over this period. Increases in employment in the government sector have cushioned the fall in private employment over the past year, but this expansion in the number of government employees has slowed significantly in recent months. 
There seems to be an increasing trend to self employed and employer categories. This group grew by 57,000 or 6.9 per cent in the period May 1976 to May 1977 and by 7,000 or 0.9 per cent from May 1977 to May 1978, at a time when the number of wage and salary earners was falling. The Government is watching this development closely. At the same time unemployment among persons looking for full-time work, as measured by the Australian Bureau of Statistics surveys, rose by 46,500 in the 12 months to August 1977, and rose by a further 49,500 in the year to August 1978. The bulk of the increase was among persons aged 20 and over- 73,200 over a two-year period. Commonwealth Employment Service figures confirm this general trend. There are no signs of any immediate significant improvement in the employment situation. On present indications it seems likely that a new peak will be reached in January-February 1979. Whether it will depends largely on the actions of employers and trade unions. The basic choice now, from which there is no escaping, is between higher wages for those in jobs or work for those who are not. This is a choice which trade unions and their members in particular should think about very seriously. Employers have recognised that labour is an item of high cost and, in many instances, have found it more profitable to replace labour with capital. Even as business profitability improves and demand and investment pick up, employers are not likely to take on additional labour as readily as in the past. Initially employers will make most use of overtime rather than create new jobs. 
The level of unemployment next year depends largely on our ability to restrain wage increases which is the best way to enable employers to take on additional labour. We have to recognise, too, that even with an increase in the number of jobs, unemployment may not decline. People not now actively seeking employment may be expected to do so. The United States experience is worth looking at. In the past year, 4 million new jobs were created, but unemployment fell by only 1  lA  million in the same period. 
What then are the prospects for a growth of job opportunities sufficient to restore the pre- 1974 situation of the labour market, or something akin to it? It is not an easy question to answer, but a reasonable approach is to consider the number of new job opportunities necessary to match present and likely future demand for jobs based on recent experience. Let us assume a continuation of current immigration policies resulting in a net contribution to the labour force of approximately 20,000 a year; a return to the pre- 1974 trend in female participation rates by about 1981, remembering that our female participation rates are still significantly below those in a number of industrialised countries; and that young people participate in education and the labour force at present rates. Given these assumptions, the labour force is likely to grow by about 1 10,000 annually between now and 1 985. 
If new jobs were created at an average of 130,000 a year for each of the next 5 years, we could expect to reduce unemployment to about 4.5 per cent. This could be achieved providing the improved labour demand did not attract abnormal additional numbers of people into the labour force. In this regard, I remind honourable members of the recent experience in the United States of America. If we achieved that rate of growth of job opportunities consistently for the next five years, we would match the very best of our post-war experience. 
When one considers the growth patterns in employment opportunities prior to 1974, the levels of industry assistance and average productivity performances, it would appear unlikely that more than 10 per cent new employment will be generated in the manufacturing industry or that rural or mining industries will produce large numbers of additional jobs. The bulk of the new jobs will have to come from the services sector. Even here there are significant obstacles to increased employment. For example, the present system of penalty payments is a deterrent to the creation of more jobs in some important areas. It appears unlikely that additional jobs will emerge in wholesale and retail trading- a stronger generator of jobs in the early 1 970s- at the same rate as they emerged before the recession. A major contribution should continue to be expected to come from community services, an area which has seen a strong growth in jobs throughout the last 30 years, but of course in order to expand these services we must have a strong economy with a high rate of growth. 
Leaving aside building, looming over the whole tertiary sector are changes in computer and related technology and the effects are beginning to bite. To the extent that evidence of the growth of labour saving innovations and capital investment indicate a substantial and permanent shift in attitudes towards incurring labour costs in the production of goods and services, the difficulty of matching our best past performance becomes even more difficult. Put simply, if we overcome our present problems and restore economic growth to more normal levels, we still face a formidable problem. The Government is nevertheless convinced that the best results will be achieved through the pursuit of its present economic policies. 
There will also need to be a willingness on the part of everyone to be receptive to new ideas. There have been suggestions of work sharing, part-time employment and flexible retirement. But we must recognise that, while these may be options, they are not soft options if they are to make a genuine contribution to alleviating unemployment. Their full implications and consequences need to be carefully considered and fully understood. If these new employment concepts are accepted only where there is no loss of income or other inconvenience they offer no option for improving the overall employment situation. The Government, for its part, is prepared to consider with an open mind, new approaches to the employment problem within the established framework of the economic strategy needed for Australia's recovery, with continued stress on real solutions to our problems and not simply stop-gap expedients. 
Unemployment is a social as well as an economic problem. Some 16 per cent of the labour force aged between 15 and 19 years of age is unemployed. The periods of unemployment are lengthening noticeably and the percentage next year of unemployed in this age bracket could be even higher. By the early 1980s the situation could be one where, in addition to the problem of 15 to 19 year olds being unemployed, there will be a growing proportion of people in their early 20s who will have little work experience or prospects of employment. In other words, the social problem could significantly increase. If this situation develops, as it has in a number of other countries, there will be real dangers to the fabric of our society. In these circumstances, the attractiveness of Australia as a place to live and as an investment prospect- indeed, its credibility as a stable community- would be weakened. If that happened, the real advances we have made would be seriously at risk. It is not sufficient to shrug it off as a problem for government alone to counter. It is a challenge to which we must respond and there are not easy options to the problems facing us if we are to avoid the substantial social and economic costs of widespread high and prolonged unemployment. The Government acknowledges that a substantial problem of unemployment exists, and we are concerned about it. That concern, I am sure, is shared by every thoughtful Australian. 
With its awareness of the problems ahead, the Government has already commissioned important studies under Professor Williams on education and training, and under  Sir John  Crawford on structural problems in industry. Their reports, which are due later this year, are expected to throw further light on problems we face and, it is hoped, provide possible directions for longer-term policies. But we can be sure, however helpful the advice of Professor Williams's committee and  Sir John's  study group, that neither will provide a panacea. We face a most difficult time and we should not be deceived by superficially plausible economic arguments that the solutions to unemployment are easily found and painlessly administered. Unemployment and its attendant consequences concern the whole community. All of us will have to share the cost of the remedies. 
For workers, it means responsibility and restraint in wage demands or jobs will be priced further out of the reach of the unemployed. For the employer, it means a responsibility for the interests of people, as well as profits, or they may find a growing loss of confidence in our economic and social systems. For government, it means a responsibility for continuing policies which contribute to sustained economic growth and increased employment. For all of us as Australians, it means having an understanding of our problems, a willingness to tackle them and, above all, a confidence in our own country's future. 
-On 16 March 1978  (Hansard,  page 806) the honourable member for Grey  (Mr 
Wallis) asked the Prime Minister a question, without notice, relating to the appointment of an independent assessor to consider new tenders for the computer for the Australian Bureau of Statistics and Department of Trade and Resources. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

 Dr C. H. P. Brookes, Professor of Information Systems and Head of the School of Accounting at the University of New South Wales, has been appointed as the independent assessor for the tendering process for the computer for the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Trade and Resources. 

 Dr Brookes has graduated from the University of Sydney and Oxford University. He has been  President  of the Australian Computer Users Association and of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Computer Society. He has not been an employee of any computer supplier. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Out of a staff of 3,800 in Central and Regional Offices, and some 230 Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in all States and Territories at 30 June 1978 there were 141 officers of the Department who had their home telephone rentals paid or charges partially paid by the Department in the 1977-78 financial year. 
The cost to the Department in 1976-77 amounted to approximately $27,600. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Some weeks ago claims were made on various food processing companies, I understand, by the food processors union, for an extra $30 a week. As I understand it, various private conferences have been held since that time. I am further informed that the union accepted the Heinz company's offer about 10 days ago. It has been reported, as the honourable member said, that a settlement was reached in these private conferences for an increase of about $13 a week. Quite clearly, such increases could only be passed on to the consumer, in the prices of the products of the company concerned and inevitably, because of the increased costs incurred, would lessen the likelihood of improved employment prospects in the industry. If it turns out that the reports of the settlement reached are accurate, then the Government in accordance with its stated policy would have to consider the appropriateness of a Prices Justification Tribunal inquiry into the pricing policies of the firm concerned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Fire Board for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Department of Defence is examining a possible requirement for 12 hectares of the land for defence housing purposes. The balance of the land, being 29.6 hectares is surplus to the requirements of the Department of Defence. Other Commonwealth departments and authorities will be circulated in the near future regarding its availability. 
Other than the defence housing proposal, there is no other known Commonwealth requirement at this stage. 
In October 1969 the then Minister for Local Government in Victoria,  Mr R.  Hamer, M.P., proposed an exchange of this land for land abutting Tullamarine Airport. The proposal was not supported by the Commonwealth. In January 1976 the State was asked to indicate whether it had any interest in the property. No interest was expressed. 
I have seen a great many comments on these speeches in the last few days since I have been back in Australia. I must admit that I have been dismayed- I cannot use any other word- at some of the comments I have seen which have come from  Mr Hawke  and other members of the Australian Labor Party, particularly the personal attacks made yesterday on the Prime Minister's speech a few days ago on the employment problems. I note that comments of this kind are part of a consistent strategy that the ALP, both inside and outside this House, seems to have adopted. It is a strategy which is based on personal attacks rather than on making a constructive contribution to the debate. The only people on whom those comments reflect are the people making them. They make no contribution whatever to the problems that we face. 
I make this point: Unless the industrial wing of the Australian Labor Party outside this place or its parliamentary wing inside this place set aside this technique they will be unable to make the contribution which they could make to the problems which we are facing. If they persist in this technique of personal abuse they will be judged accordingly by the Australian community. Where do we see a recognition of the role which industrial disruption- I am not talking only about strikes, I am talking about all kinds of bans and limitations- has played in our present unemployment problem? Where do we see a recognition of the key role that irresponsible wage claims have played in our present unemployment situation? I have seen very little evidence of that. I will be more impressed when I see some recognition from the Opposition of these tactics which have played such a very large part in aggravating the unemployment situation today. Unless we get such recognition it will gravely inhibit our capacity to improve the situation. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the standardisation of fire hose couplings prepared by the Commonwealth Fire Board together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Administrative Services. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The details sought to 3 1 May 1 978 are contained in the following tables which have been prepared by my Department. For the information of the honourable member similar details are included in respect of the staff of the Opposition Office-holders. 
Extraction of the data involved would be a massive task and I would not feel justified in authorising the commitment of the necessary staff resources. However, should there be particular areas of interest to the honourable member I would be glad to consider meeting his request. 
Yes. The Government, through the Commonwealth Employment Service, has worked closely with the Channel 9 network on the development of what is now called  The Job Show  which started in Melbourne and Sydney yesterday morning. Initial reports are that the show will achieve what it is setting out to do; that is to enable people in the work force who are looking for jobs to find the jobs most suited to them, and to bring those employers in the work force who have vacancies registered into contact with the people most suited to fill them. More importantly than that, by this new and imaginative program the services provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service are being brought to people in their own homes, to both employers and those seeking work, and I believe a greater understanding will emerge of the services provided by the CES in this way. Certainly the initial response after the first show was extremely encouraging. The show will run initially for six weeks. During and at the end of that time the Government will make an evaluation of its success and the results it has achieved. I hope that if that evaluation shows that it is successful, it might be possible to extend it to other capital cities. I shall certainly keep the honourable member and, indeed, all honourable members informed of the progress made in this new and imaginative project. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Apart from the inaugural meeting on 2 March 1978, two meetings have been held- on 9 May 1 978 and 8 August 1978. 
At the meetings the more important matters discussed were the need for port development and organisation in Australia, the operation of arrangements relating to the reduction and the better utilisation of the stevedoring labour force, the cost structure of the stevedoring industry, the collection and availability of statistical material and some studies of interest to the stevedoring industry being undertaken by other organisations. 
No formal recommendations or reports have as yet been presented to the Government. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  18-30 September 1976- 6th Conference of Asian Labour Ministers, Teheran. 2-7 October 1976- 4th Conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers, Nauru. 4-27 June 1977- 63rd Session ofthe International Labour Conference, Geneva, followed by a meeting with the Secretary-General and senior officials of the OECD in Paris and discussions with Labour Ministers and leaders of trade union and employer organisations in the United Kingdom, the United States and Japan. 12-18 March 1978- 7th Conference of Asian and Pacific Labour Ministers, Wellington. 7-28 June 1978- 64th Session of the International Labour Conference, Geneva; discussions with the Secretary-General of the OECD in Paris; discussions with Labour Ministers and leaders of trade union and employer organisations in Yugoslavia, West Germany, Sweden and the United States. 15-25 September 1978-To Japan as leader ofthe Australian Tripartite Mission on Industrial Relations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 1659. (See  Hansard,  2 1 September 1978, page 1338). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) $20,021; (b) $343,339; (c) $255,039; (d) $1,003,488 (1 July 1977 to 31 March 1978); Total $1,621,887. 
The cost of each campaign undertaken was: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Reports of malfunctions in domestic oil heaters in . Government houses in the A.C.T. led the Commonwealth Fire Board to report that the heaters constituted a fire risk. Although there was no evidence to suggest that a heater of the type in question had actually caused a fire in a Government house, the Commonwealth Fire Board considered that an unacceptable potential fire risk existed. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board has advised that it is not possible to single out a specific defect which resulted in the heater being considered a fire risk. Malfunctions consisted of ignition difficulties, sooting and blowbacks or explosions. Prior to modification of the heater, the parts most commonly requiring replacement were heater switches, circuit boards, pre-heat elements, burner fans and valves. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board has advised that the heater concerned was the 'Wonderheat' manufactured by Malleys Limited. This type of heater has not been manufactured since 1975. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board has advised that modifications intended to overcome the difficulties were undertaken by the manufacturer in 1975. The modifications were generally successful in countering the fire hazard problems such as blowbacks. However, there was only marginal improvement in the faults associated with the circuit boards, controlling ignition functions and faulty fans. Consequently, contracts for the comprehensive servicing and maintenance of the oil heaters were let under the Department of the Capital Territory's Repairs and Maintenance Program. The contracts have now entered their second year of operation and are proving to be effective in preventing many of the problems formerly experienced with heaters in Commonwealth residences. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The manufacturer of the carpet and place of manufacture are not known with absolute certainty. The Commonwealth Fire Board has advised that it appears the carpet was purchased more than 12 years ago. Records containing the details sought are not kept for this length of time. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board has advised that the fire properties of materials such as floor coverings are based mainly on tests conducted in accordance with Standards Association of Australia, Australian Standard 1S30, Part 3. Although it has been the practice within the Commonwealth for many years to take into consideration these properties when selecting carpets, formal fire properties criteria only began to emerge at about the time the carpet in question was purchased. 
The full implications and need for the criteria were established in the following years and this culminated in the issue of instructions by the Department of Construction in 1972, and of recommendations by the Commonwealth Fire Board in 197S. The Board's recommendations tabulated in its Annual Report 1974-75 at pages 8-11, were determined in co-operation with and on the basis of updated proposals prepared by the Department of Construction. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board advises that its recommendations are generally being followed by Departments. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The total area of office space leased by the Australian Government for departments was 158,503 square metres during 1975-76 and 180,824 square metres during 1976-77. 
The majority of the office space leased during the stated periods was located in Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra. 
The following table identifies office space leased in those capital cities during the stated periods, together with the percentage leased in the Central Business District of each city. 
The above figures are based on records available in the Department of Administrative Services. The Department does not have complete details of the space leased by statutory bodies. These figures have, therefore, been omitted in preparing the above table. 
IBM Memory Typewriters  (Question No. 763) 
The Minister for  Administrative  Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The Department of Aboriginal Affairs; The Attorney-General's Department; the Department of Construction; The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations; The Postal and Telecommunications Department; The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet; The Department of Productivity. 
Apart from a machine in use in the Prime Minister's Office, no IBM memory typewriter has been allocated for the use of senators or members. 
(a) and (b)- 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) and (b) The total office size was 17,836 square metres. The rental costs for 1977-78 and the period 1 July to 31 August 1978 were $994,401 and $168,552 respectively for the Commonwealth Offices you refer to with the exception of the Qantas Office at 20 Macquarie Street. Qantas does not fall within the ambit of the Land Acquisition Act administered by the Department of Administrative Services and therefore arranges its own accommodation. The honourable member should seek the details required from the Minister for Transport. 
The administrative costs for the premises listed fall within the total financial votes allocated to the Department of Administrative Services and the occupying department/ authority. To seek this information from my respective colleagues I would need to have specific details of what costs are under reference; 
I can only provide you with details of staff of the Australian Electoral Office at 28 George Street. There were 3 permanent and 1 temporary staff in occupation as at 3 1 July 1978. To obtain details of staff members of other Departments the honourable member should approach the Ministers concerned. 
Yes. I am informed that in recent correspondence with the Department of Administrative Services a complete list of Commonwealth offices administered by the Department in the Electoral Division of Parramatta was provided to you. 
Seat Occupancy on Qantas Flights  (Question No. 1762) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) When the Government approved of the National Employment Strategy for Aboriginals in 1977 it decided that there should be a national campaign to stimulate the employment of Aboriginals throughout Australia. The members of the National Aboriginal Employment Development Committee were appointed in order to spearhead that campaign, in particular they have the task of stimulating positive action by employers in providing employment and training opportunities for Aboriginal people. The Government sought a broadly based Committee whose combined experience in industry and Aboriginal affairs equips them to be in a position to positively promote the cause of Aboriginal employment to their fellow Australians. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 understand that because of an unexpectedly large number of requests for photographs of The Queen stocks were exhausted for a short period in the Commonwealth office in Brisbane that provides them for schools. 
Stocks have since been replenished. I regret any inconvenience caused to the honourable member. 
by leave- On 9 June 1978, the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations tabled its Report on its investigations into the Establishment, Operation and Disposal of Wiltona Hostel, Williamstown, Victoria, which at that time was not in use. The Senate Committee concluded that the hostel site was unsuitable for such purposes because of its location and recommended that action be taken to dispose of the property together with the Williamstown Rifle Range. However, the Committee accepted the possible need for the hostel to be used and, in that event, recommended a number of lire safety measures be taken. It also indicated that its use be for a specific interim period. 
The need for the hostel to be used results from the Government's decision to accept 9,000 IndoChinese refugees in 1978-79 in addition to other assisted passage migrants which will require additional hostel accommodation to that already in use. The only suitable accommodation is the Wiltona Hostel and the first intake into the hostel is scheduled for 16 October 1978. All of the fire safety measures recommended by the Senate Committee have been met and these were: Provision of an audible alarm system interconnected with the refinery's watch room; establishment of suitable evacuation procedures which have been cleared with the Metropolitan Fire Brigade and Victoria Police; an assurance from the Refinery that only crude oil or heavy fuel oil will be stored in tanks adjacent to the hostel; and adequate patrolling service at the Tank Farm. 
No action has as yet been commenced towards the eventual disposal of the hostel property. There are a number of factors which will need to be determined before such action can take place, including: Determination of the interim period for which the hostel will be needed. This will depend upon later Government decisions regarding future refugee intakes in the light of Australia's International obligations in this regard; determination of the future zoning of the area by the State Planning Authority; the economics of relocating the Williamstown Rifle Range; and determination of the Commonwealth's future relationship with civilian Rifle Clubs. The Government will be seeking advice from the Victorian Government on future planning for the area and will review the situation when these matters are determined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been occasional such reports from the Commonwealth Employment Service, as well as complaints to the National and/or State Committees on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation. The latter Committees have been established as part of the machinery to give effect to Australia's ratification of ILO Convention No.111 - Discrimination (Employment and Occupation), 1958. 
and (3) With its ratification (in 1 973) of this ILO Convention, the Government is committed to eliminating discrimination in employment and occupation on the grounds of, inter alia, race or national extraction. The Employment Discrimination Committees are available to receive, and take remedial action on, complaints of employment discrimination on such grounds. In this connection I refer the honourable member to the most recent (Fourth) Annual Report of the National Committee for 1976-77 which I tabled in the House on 2nd June last. 
Persons who consider they have been discriminated against in their employment on grounds of race or national or ethnic origin may, alternatively or additionally, lodge a complaint with the Commissioner for Community Relations under the provisions of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. 
Finally, such persons who reside in New South Wales or South Australia, may seek redress under the provisions of the NSW Anti-Discrimination Act 1977, or the SA Racial Discrimination Act 1 976, respectively. 
Yes. I have seen reports that the Leader of the Opposition is continuing his non-policy in industrial relations and promising to repeal all the Government's industrial relations legislation. I hope everyone, and especially trade unionists, fully understands what the Leader of the Opposition is saying. For example, he would abolish secret postal ballots. He would deny trade unionists their fair and equal opportunity to decide who should lead them. He would remove the guaranteed right of trade unionists to vote without fear or intimidation. For its part, the Government has given trade unionists that right and it will stand by it. The Leader of the Opposition - 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member 's question: 
The issues raised involve the detailed procedures followed by individual departments including procedures not prescribed by regulation. Accordingly, it has been necessary to consult with a number of other departments and authorities to obtain the necessary detailed information to answer the honourable member's question. Replies will be provided as soon as possible. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question : 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2032 provided above. 
-In recent weeks there has been continuing industrial disruption on a very wide front in the oil industry, affecting both State and Federal awards. The one which is of most immediate concern and which, I think, principally worries the honourable member, is a strike by about 140 members, I am informed, of various unions, including the Federated Clerks Union, the Transport Workers Union, the Storemen and Packers Union and the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union, at the Caltex Banksmeadow terminal over a claim for $10 a week relating to depreciation of motor vehicles. This strike has caused all shipments of petrol from the terminal to cease. In addition, deliveries to the terminal from the Kurnell refinery have ceased. As a result of this action very serious shortages of petrol and aviation fuel exist in the Sydney area. I understand that the effect of these stoppages is so critical that the New South Wales Government is seriously considering using emergency powers it possesses under the New South Wales Energy Authority Act. 
I understand that the matter came before  Mr Justice  Ludeke of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission today and that about an hour ago he put forward a proposal which would allow a resumption of work. I understand also that  Mr Justice  Ludeke has proposed that an assessment be made of the situation by experts from the National Roads and Motorists Association. These inspections are to commence at 9 o 'clock tomorrow morning. I understand that the men have scheduled a meeting for 6.30 tomorrow morning. 
Unfortunately, for some of the time the estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations were being debated in Committee I was in Cabinet. There were items on the Cabinet agenda for which I had to be present. I therefore apologise for my absence during part of this debate. I assure honourable members who have taken part in it that the  Hansard  record of the estimates debate will be examined carefully to ensure that all the points and suggestions made by honourable members are considered properly. Where specific questions have been asked I will try to get answers to them. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  leading for the Opposition, made a couple of points that I feel require comment. In particular he made the claim that the Government's manpower measures are not integrated, his thesis, as I understand it, being that they do not incorporate job creation schemes. What the honourable member has failed to appreciate is that the Government's range of manpower measures form a carefully integrated and graduated package directed to those who are most in need and supplying particular benefits and attributes to those target groups. Far from lacking integration, they have a progressive effect according to the needs of the various groups that are affected. 
Last year the intake under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme rose by about 10 per cent. According to the latest information I have for the current year, the numbers have been approximately maintained this year and the employers of some 63,000 apprentices will be receiving the benefits of the CRAFT rebate while those apprentices attend full time technical training. For those who seek skills below the trade level, both adults and juniors, the National Employment and Training system is available. The numbers who have been helped through the NEAT system are very considerable. In the case of the Special Youth Employment Training Program, which is part of the NEAT system, something like 100,000 people were helped last year. We expect that number to be approximately maintained this year. So the total numbers going through these schemes are very considerable indeed. In the case of the NEAT system, they are directed specifically to gaps in the labour market where vacancies cannot be filled by people on the books of the Commonwealth Employment Service because they lack the skills required. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide seems to have a misplaced notion as to the use of the Special Youth Employment Training Program. Apart from the training aspect, one of the most important aspects of this scheme is the number of young people it enables to gain work experience. It is the same old vicious circle. They cannot get jobs - 
-They are not. I will come to that in a minute. They cannot get jobs because they are inexperienced and they are inexperienced because they have not had the chance to gain any experience. The Special Youth Employment Training Program enables them to get that experience. In regard to the honourable member's comment that they are sacked at the end of the period, the last survey we did on this showed that slightly over 60 per cent were in permanent employment some time after the training period had expired. I have acknowledged before that a small number of firms have tried to abuse the scheme by sacking the young person after the subsidy ended and then lodging another vacancy for a similar type of young person. When that situation is brought to our notice- the scheme is monitored constantly- these people just do not get Special Youth Employment Training Program vacancies filled through the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The number of people involved in the Program is great. At present, something like 38,000 people are under the SYETP. It may be that some people slip through the net, but we do our best to ensure that they do not. I am told that by overseas standards the retention rate at the end of training- that is the figure I have just given to the honourable member- is high. We would like to see it higher and we will do our best to ensure that the scheme is reviewed and monitored constantly to improve it where improvement is shown to be needed. Frankly, the open ended job creation schemes have been shown up in the past. The honourable member's own party, the Australian Labor Party, instituted the largest of those schemes in Australia in recent times, the Regional Employment Development scheme. The same party subsequently abolished the scheme because the cost became too high. The lesson that was learnt by the Labor Government- in this sense we support it- was that one cannot spend one's way out of unemployment through these excessively expensive public works job creation schemes. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  made a very constructive speech. I noted his reference to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the need for consultation on what is, indeed, an extremely complex piece of legislation. I also noted his very sensible analysis of the requirements of a sound industrial relations policy which I wholeheartedly endorse. As I indicated when starting my comments on winding up the debate, where specific questions have been asked we will do our best to ensure that answers are given. The constructive suggestions that have been made will be taken into account when considering the Estimates debate. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The cost of maternity leave in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in 1 976 was $246,08 1 .75; in 1977 was $266,312.59 and in 1978 to 26 May was $97,599.22. 
The total hours of maternity leave taken in respect of these employees is 148,058 hours 3 1 minutes. 
The total number of women who resigned within one month of the end of the leave period was: 
1976-48; 1977-34; 1978- NU. 
Definition: 'leave period means duration of paid leave'. 
The Department has advised that there is no way of finding out from its official records which child it is in relation to whom a grant of maternity leave is made. 
Note- All references to 'maternity leave' mean the mandatory period of paid leave under the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1 973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  i  The information requested is not available. The most re cent information of this sort comes from a survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS ) in August 1 974. Survey results were published in the ABS bulletin Journey to Work and Journey to School, August 1974 (Catalogue No. 920S.0). However, information from that survey on costs of travel to work is now, of course, out of date and there are no data on average duration of journey though tables are presented giving distributions of duration of travel to work. These show, for example, that at the time of the survey almost 25 per cent of persons in capital cities travelled to work in less than 15 minutes and just over 10 per cent travelled for over one hour. 
Vietnamese Refugees and Claiming to be Refugees (Question No. 1679) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answers provided by me to his Questions on Notice Nos 819 and 820. See  Hansard,  12 September 1978, pages 881-2 and 12 October 1978, page 1884, respectively. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The answer to the question appeared in  Hansard on  1 1 October 1978, page 1782. 
Yes. 
The delay arose from the following factors: 
the original question lapsed with the dissolution of Parliament in November 1977. 
there were difficulties encountered in obtaining the precise details required by the honourable member's question. 
some legal aspects of the matter required clarification before the question could be answered. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The answer to the question appeared in  Hansard  on 1 1 October 1978, page 1782. 
Yes. 
The delay arose from the following factors: 
the original question lapsed with the dissolution of Parliament in November 1977. 
considerable time was expended in attempting to provide the precise details required. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2090 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
I will consult with my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services in the other place, before giving an answer. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on special assistance for States 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present a copy of a letter sent by the Minister for Administrative Services to the honourable member for Chifley concerning the names of passengers who have used Commonwealth cars in the Sydney area during the past year on the authority of the Minister for Primary Industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is a follows: 
1 ) and (2) No metal or glass is generated by my Department or the statutory authorities under my control. In respect of waste paper, I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 1437 (See  Hansard,  15 August 1978, page 334). 
The Trade Union Training Authority recycles its waste paper through private waste collection agencies or arranges for its collection by charitable organisations. 
Delegation of Power to approve Expenditure  (Question No. 1594) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2090. (See  Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States (Question No. 2099) 
I regret that I have not seen the decision of the Federal Court to which the honourable gentleman refers. I do know that during the concluding stages of the Telecom dispute Justice Gaudron of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided that stand-down without pay was valid where people put bans on work which was at their normal place of work and which they were normally required to do, but that if they were required to move away from their normal place of work to somewhere else and therefore to do work which they were not normally required to do they should not be stood down without pay. I shall make further investigations on the judgment to which the honourable gentleman refers to see whether it involves any variation to the situation I have just described. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following information in respect of a property at Robinsons Road, Deer Park, Victoria in heu of data previously provided as part of the information relating to 63 properties in the Electoral Division of Lalor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy adopted in 1946 for the provision of food services provided that, in accordance with normal industrial practice, the Commonwealth would meet all costs of providing the service and replacing capital equipment. The service was then to be operated on a self-supporting basis, except that the Commonwealth would meet the cost of lighting, heating and cleaning the public section of the lunch room and no charge would be made for administrative or accounting assistance rendered by departmental officers. 
The division of the above costs, presently authorised, between the Commonwealth and cafeteria patrons, in Commonwealth employee food services, is: 1 Costs met from Departmental Appropriations: 
a ) lighting and heating of dining-rooms and kitchens; 
cleaning of dining-rooms, outside walls and windows; 
administrative services provided by the operatorCommonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Ltd; 
d ) workers ' compensation insurance; 
maternity leave for cafeteria staff, previously employed under the Public Service Act, who transferred to the Company; 
furlough; 
alterations and repair of buildings- Commonwealth property; 
initial cost and repair of plant- Commonwealth property; 
initial cost and replacement of equipment- Company assets. 2 Costs met from Cafeteria Operations: 
power and fuel- food preparation and service; 
cleaning of kitchen and servery areas; 
food service staff salaries and wages; 
recreation leave and bonus and sick leave; 
repair of equipment- Company assets. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 1657 (See  Hansard,  24 October 1978, page 2242). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Present senators and members of the House of Representatives who have completed 1 8 years service are: 
The Rt Hon. J. D. Anthony, M.P.-from 14.9.57. 
The  Hon.  G. M. Bryant, E.D., M.P.-from 10. 12. 1 955. 
The  Hon.  C. R. Cameron, M.P.-from 10.12.49. 
The Rt Hon. Malcolm Fraser, C.H., M.P.-from 10.12.55. 
W. Graham, M.P.-from 10. 12.49 to 29.5.54, from to 22.1 1.58, from 26. 1 1.66. 
W. James, M.P.-from 9.4.60. 
The  Hon.  L. R. Johnson, M.P.-from 10.12.55 to 26.1 1.66, from 25.10.69. 
The  Hon.  C. K. Jones, M.P.-from 22. 1 1.58. 
The  Hon.  D. J. Killen, M.P.-from 10.12.55. 
E. Lucock, C.B.E., M.P.-from 22.3.52 
The Rt  Hon. Sir William  McMahon, G.C.M.G., C.H., M.P.-from 10.12.49. 

 Senator J. O 'Byrne from 1.7.47. 
The Rt  Hon. Sir Billy  Mackie Snedden, K..C.M.G., Q.C., M.P.-from 10.12.55. 
The  Hon.  F. E. Stewart, M.P.-from 29.8.53. 
The  Hon.  T. Uren, M.P.-from 22.1 1.58. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. There has, in the past, been a small demand by Parliamentarians for cars with driver in the Gold Coast area that could not be supplied economically from the Commonwealth fleet in Brisbane. For the year ended 30 June 1978,24 separate bookings were made with a private hire car operator at a cost of $28 1.50. 
(a) Aura Hire Cars of Southport; (b) $12 per hour pick-up to drop of passenger. 
Quotations were not sought from Avis, Hertz or Budget because these firms do not provide car-with-driver services. Quotations have not been sought from other car hire firms who may service the Gold Coast region because of the small amount of business involved. There has been an increase in usage over recent months and if this is maintained over the six months ending 31 December 1978, consideration will be given to inviting public tenders for the service from firms interested in a contract to twelve months' duration. 
See (3) above. The charges by Aura Hire Cars are considered reasonable for the services provided. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in  Hansard  on 1 7 Ocotober 1 978 to Question No. 2032. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Adminstrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Question No. 2294 provided above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) At present there are no buildings used by Commonwealth Government departments that comply with all the provisions of the Australian Standard Design Code 1428-1977 design rules for access by the disabled. There are 57 Government-owned buildings that do provide access for the disabled and conform with some of the provisions of the new code. 
Wherever feasible and as opportunity permits the Department in conjunction with the Department of Construction, will be upgrading access to existing Governmentowned buildings in accordance with the code. In some cases it is not physically possible to convert a building. For new Government buildings the code is taken into consideration at the design stage. 
With respect to leased buildings compliance with the design code is the responsibility of building owners. While some leased premises are upgraded to provide suitable access for disabled persons, this is not always possible because owners may not be agreeable to alterations or it may not be physically possible to convert a building. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. The subject of penalty rates generally is causing increasing concern in the community, not least among those who are seeking jobs. As the House would know, penalty rates usually result from an award or determination by one of the various industrial tribunals. It is a fact that an examination of these awards will show that a great many of them are the result of consent agreements between the employers and the union or unions involved. I must say that to date the union movement has shown no great inclination to favour changing the present system. It should be stressed that, as the honourable member has said, penalty rates are having an inhibiting effect on the creation of new jobs because of the extra costs involved. I suspect that this is particularly so in the area of part time employment. 
If the adverse effects on the creation of new jobs are to be overcome, the unions in particular and the employers will need to adopt a more flexible approach to dealing with this problem than they have in the past. This is particularly the case if the creation of new jobs is to be put ahead of increases in wages for those who are already employed. If the unions are genuinely concerned about the unemployment problem, they can show their concern. One of the ways in which they can show it is by changing their attitude to penalty rates. If employers also evidence some willingness to take another look at this matter the Government, for its part, certainly would be prepared to consider whatever help it might be able to give to them before the relevant industrial tribunal, provided, of course, that the award concerned was within federal jurisdiction. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
These amendments are simple machinery matters so I intend to be brief. The first amendment will enable a member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, appointed to office under the Trade Union Training Authority Act 1975, to receive remuneration and allowances in the performance of the duties of that position with the Authority and at the same time retain office as a member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This type of provision is by no means unusual and has been inserted in other relevant legislation in the past. Honourable members will know that  Mr Commissioner  M. E. Heagney, a man with long trade union experience, who has contributed much to the work of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission over the past six years, was appointed National Director from 1 August this year. I am sure that members on both sides of the House would congratulate Commissioner Heagney on his appointment as National Director. With his sound leadership TUTA will continue to gain increasing support from the trade union movement and industry generally. 
The second amendment concerns the question of remuneration for chairmen of the councils for union training established in each State. The Government sees these State councils providing valuable advice in respect of trade union training in each State. The chairmen of these councils will be required to contribute a significant amount of time to their tasks and consequently appropriate remuneration is warranted. Under the current terms of the Act, the chairmen are precluded from receiving remuneration. 
The purpose of the third and final amendment is to protect the position of a member of or candidate for election to State or Federal Parliament who accepts an office on a council or the Executive Board of TUTA. I am sure that all members will agree that those members of parliament who are prepared to contribute their skills and valuable time to statutory authorities such as TUTA should not be discouraged from doing so. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (4) I am advised that the information sought by the honourable member is not readily available within the Department and would take a significant amount of time and resources to compile not only within the Central Office but also in the State Offices and other areas of responsibility. 
Unfortunately I am unable to commit the required resources to this task at this time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The normal practice of departments involved in calling public tenders is that two different locks are used requiring separate keys. In addition the flap on the front opening of the box is locked at the tender closing time. After the box is cleared of its contents the front flap is re-opened and the door re-locked. 
Two members of the tender opening committee hold custody of the keys. Each officer has a separate key. Some departments, however also add a supervisor to the committee; part of his duties  is  to act as a witness to the opening and relocking of the tender box. 
Two public servants normally constitute the opening committee and both of these are present as indicated in (2) above. Some departments have at the opening of the tender box another public servant as pan of the opening committee to supervise proceedings including the opening and relocking of the tender box. As the opening committee includes a minimum of two there is always a witness to the opening of tenders. 
Most departments will accept a tender after the closing time where the postmark clearly indicates that the tender was posted before the closing time. 
The Departments of Foreign Affairs, Construction and Veteran's Affairs require all tenders to be in the tender box at opening time. However, they will accept a tender received after that time if the postmark indicates that the tender had been posted at a time that, under normal circumstances, would have allowed it to reach the tender box at the due closing time. 
Yes, except during the short time when the tender box is locked as described in the answer to question ( 1 ). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Most Departments as a general practice schedule tenders in a locked room. Some Departments, however, consider this approach to be unnecessary as probity and security is provided by the involvement of a minimum of two officers while scheduling the tenders. 
There is no uniform policy in this regard. The Department of Administrative Services does not allow access to the room, whereas some Departments do give access to the tender schedule room, for example for delivery of any tenders received following clearance of the Depanments' mail boxes at Post Offices. 
The essential objective of the tender scheduling procedures adopted by Departments is to ensure that all formal tenders received are accepted and forwarded for consideration and those classified as informal do not receive consideration. 
See (b) above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are no uniform written guidelines laid down by which Commonwealth Departments may gauge the best interest of the Commonwealth when determining whether to re-invite tenders. 
Each case is considered on its merits and the relevant action is determined at a senior level within each Department Doubtful cases are sometimes referred to the responsible Minister for a decision. 
In the Department of Administrative Services, for instance, consideration is given to re-invitation of tenders in the following circumstances: 
when public calling of tenders fails to produce any bids; 
where the tender/s received fail to meet the essential conditions of the client's specification; 
when a substantial change occurs in the client department's requirement after tenders have been called; 
d ) when the prices of all tenders received are considered unreasonable; 
where some omission in the tender or tendering procedures may have lessened the effectiveness of competition; 
when the circumstances of the market change after closing of tenders, making it evident that re-invitation will result in more advantageous offers. 
Other departments engaged in large scale purchasing activities have similar internal guidelines. 
An original tenderer may be denied the opportunity to retender by Departments in the following circumstances: 
when re-tendering is confined to the tenderers whose original bids were much lower than the others submitted; 
when the performance of an original tenderer has been found in the past to be unsatisfactory. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In general the guidelines referred to in the answer to Question No. 1642 apply, notice of recall depends upon urgency of requirement. Where tenders are re-invited, usually not less than one week is allowed between issue of documents and tender closing time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the disposals authority for the Commonwealth, the Department of Administrative Services does not record such information. However, Departments declaring goods for disposal are required, under Finance Direction 32/24 to ascertain the original or assessed cost of the goods as part of the procedures for obtaining approval to dispose of Commonwealth goods no longer required. 
Overseas Students in Australia (Question No. 1945) 
For the information of honourable members I present the election statistics for the Senate election and general election of members of the House of Representatives held on 10 December 1977, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Administrative Services outlining the information and electoral education services which the Australian Electoral Office has been developing over the last two years. Each member will receive a copy of the appropriate State volume. Due to the limited number of full sets available, references copies of these volumes have been placed in the Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. 
I do not propose to deal specifically with the matters raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  However I will pass on his views and the points he made to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  for his information. The honourable member, as the House knows, has moved for the establishment of a committee to inquire into a number of aspects of electoral- 
Of course. I shall ensure that the honourable member for Lilley 's very constructive contribution in this debate is also passed on to the Minister. The committee proposed by the honourable member for Port Adelaide would be designed to inquire into a number of aspects of the electoral legislation. On this point I need to point out that the Minister for Administrative Services, who is responsible for the administration of electoral legislation, said in answer to a question on notice that a review of the Commonwealth Electoral Act is being undertaken at the moment. The Minister said that he could give no indication as to when the results of that review are likely to come forward for his consideration. Clearly, given the scope and importance of the existing legislation, of necessity any review must be a long and painstaking one. In that context, although there have been a number of important amendments to the lawfor example, those relating to compulsory enrolment, preferential voting, proportional Senate representation, and redistribution machinerymany of the existing legislative provisions do not take account of developments and changes that have occurred since the Commonwealth Electoral Act was first drafted. The advent of television and the increased importance of radio as a significant medium of mass communication are cases in point. Members will be aware, for example, of the Government's desire to overcome difficulties which have arisen in respect of talk-back radio programs. At the same time, it is important to appreciate the very real need to ensure a close link between electoral administrative procedures and the legislative provisions which relate to them. Accordingly, the Government's view is that questions of this nature are more appropriately items for consideration within the Minister's portfolio of responsibilities, and in those circumstances the Government opposes the honourable member's motion. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is currently a ban placed by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union (AMIEU) in 1 974 on the export of live cattle to Japan, Canada, the United States of America and the Middle East. 
The ban does not apply to other export markets such as Malaysia, Hong Kong and the near East. AMIEU policy, however, is that the export of live cattle to these countries is subject to a limit on numbers of cattle exported. 
In addition, live sheep and merino rams are currently the subject of specific trade union bans or limitations. 
Earlier this year action taken by members of the AMIEU threatened exports of live sheep to Middle East countries and Iran. As from 19 April exports proceeded subject to an agreement between parties to the dispute and pending reports being received on the employment implications of live sheep exports and proposals for improving carcass meat exports to the Middle East. The AMIEU wrote to me in August advising that it would not regard itself as bound by the agreement as from 3 1 August 1 978. 
The Federal Executive of the AMIEU is seeking the views of members of the Union as to the future policy on action to be taken by the Union with regard to live sheep exports. 
On the subject of merino rams, my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry, announced that the longstanding embargo with regard to the export of merino rams would be partially lifted as from5 July 1978. He indicated the intention was that up to 300 rams would be able to be exported on a trial basis over a 12 month period. 
The ACTU Executive position, resolved on 6 July 1978, was to ask Union members who might be involved 'not to facilitate the export of merino rams against the decision of growers expressed by way of referendum'. 
Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry have recently reaffirmed that the way is open for the export of merino rams on a trial basis. 
-The honourable gentleman has asked a number of questions. I do not have detailed information on all of them but I will make sure that they are referred to my colleague in the Senate. I have some information on the incident to which the honourable member referred. My information is that Commonwealth police were investigating an alleged conspiracy by the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood to commit an offence against section 30c of the Commonwealth Crimes Act. The Acting Commissioner of Commonwealth Police has advised my colleague that the surveillance methods used in this investigation, to which the honourable member referred, were in accordance with the prescribed legislation and due process was observed. Five persons have been charged with a number of offences in relation to this matter but, as the case in general is sub judice, I cannot refer to it in more detail than that. I will refer the other detailed questions to my colleague to see whether they can be answered, bearing in mind that some aspects are sub judice. 
I must admit that I am extremely surprised and disappointed to see honourable members opposite espousing a policy which is absolutely certain to lead to increased unemployment. I believe that the Australian people who are seeking work, as distinct from those who are in work, will not allow such remarks to go unnoticed. The plain fact is, as we have pointed out on many occasions in national wage case hearings by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, that particularly during the years 1973 to 1975 Australians started to pay themselves more for doing the same amount of work. The result is that fewer people now have a job. If we continue to pay ourselves more for doing the same amount of work the number of people who are out of work will increase. 
I have not seen the terms of settlement in detail and, therefore, I make that caveat. As I understand it, the terms of settlement are that the bans on  Mr Gorman  picking up fuel at the Esso terminal in Melbourne will be lifted in seven days from the conference which ended late the other night; that if it can be shown that  Mr Gorman  is in difficulties in the meantime 
Commissioner Gough would arbitrate on that; and that the section 45D writs which were issued have also been withdrawn. So far as I am aware, other than the provisions I have described, there would be no bar or bans on  Mr Gorman  collecting fuel and distributing it to his clients. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. In accordance with Finance Regulation S3 and Finance Directions 31/33, Notification of Contracts Arranged and 31/34, Disclosure of Information relating to Contracts, extracts of contracts awarded (except for those special exceptions described in Regulation 53) are published in the Commonwealth Gazette. Each extract contains the tender reference number, a description of the supplies, the value of the contract and the name and address of the contractor. 
The Finance Directions provide that further information in relation to the contract including unit price may be disclosed at the discretion of the Chief Officer of the Department requiring the supplies, or the  Chairman  of a Tender Board where the contract was approved by a Tender Board. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1)1 assume that the honourable member is referring to the free issue to schools of cassettes of the National Anthem and the National Tune, about which an announcement was made earlier this year. 
(a) Production of cassette recordings has now been completed by the successful tendering firm, K.G.C. Magnetic Tape, Sydney. Cassettes are now being delivered to the Transport and Storage Divisions of the Department of Administrative Sevices in each of the capital cities. The bulk of cassettes requested by Members and Senators are expected to be dispatched to eligible recipients by the end of November. 
The earlier announcement specified that schools and those eligible for the free issue of the Australian National Flag should apply to their local Member of the House of Representatives or a  Senator for  the cassettes. 
Various factors caused the delay in producing the cassettes and any resulting inconvenience is very much regretted. 
The factors mentioned causing the delay were not anticipated. 
More than eighty requests have been received from Members of Parliament for varying numbers of cassettes up to 2S0 for distribution to eligible groups. 
Association of Migrants Returned from Australia (Question No. 2645) 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the National Training Council for the year ended 31 December 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to bis Question on Notice No. 1612. (See  Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2682). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 2054. (See  Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2683). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to amend the provisions of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 relating to the Academic Salaries Tribunal. The Act established the Remuneration Tribunal in 1973 and was amended in 1974 to establish the Academic Salaries Tribunal. Provision was made for the  chairman  of the former Tribunal to consitutute the latter Tribunal. Due to changed circumstances the link between the two tribunals, namely, the provision for the  chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal to constitute the Academic Salaries Tribunal, is no longer appropriate. The  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal, the honourable  Mr Justice  W. B. Campbell, has been elected Chancellor of the University of Queensland. As a result of this closer involvement with university affairs, he has indicated to the Government that he does not consider it appropriate for him to deal further with academic salary matters. To remedy this situation the Government has decided to make changes to the Act. 
Clause 3 removes restrictions on the  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal in respect of his association with tertiary academic institutions. These restrictions are no longer required because the  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal will not in future constitute the Academic Salaries Tribunal. Clause 4 breaks the nexus between the tribunals. Concurrently with the above changes it was thought expedient to effect, through clause 4 of the Bill, some minor consequential changes to the Act. These consist of making provision for the term of office, the qualifications, resignation and dismissal of the person occupying the office of Academic Salaries Tribunal. 
Incidental changes, contained in the Schedule to the Bill, are merely those designed to bring the Act up to date in the light of changed circumstances since the original Act was passed, such as the Independence of Papua New Guinea. Clause 6 is a 'savings' clause which provides for continuity between the former Academic Salaries Tribunal and that which will be appointed in the future, by ensuring that determinations made prior to these amendments to the Act shall be deemed to have effect on and after the date of commencement of this Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
For the information of honourable members I present the texts of the following ILO instruments adopted by the 63rd Session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva in June 1977: 
Honourable members will be interested to know that the four instruments were referred to the appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities for examination and comment. This examination suggests that whilst there is substantial compliance with the requirements of each instrument in most jurisdictions, in no jurisdiction is there full compliance with provisions of any of the instruments. Against this background, ratification of the two conventions and acceptance of the two recommendations would not appear to be possible at present. However, the joint Commonwealth/State Consultative Machinery on ILO Conventions will keep the two conventions under review, with a view to their possible ratification in the future. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Satisfactory past performance, current commitments and financial standing are always factors in contractor selection. Reports on these aspects are sought as necessary. 
It is in the Commonwealth's interest to provide as much information as possible to tenderers to assist them in providing meaningful and competitive offers. Discretion in preparing detailed specifications is primarily the province of the technical authority involved. The role of the purchasing authority in this area is directed towards ensuring that the specification details are such as to ensure that meaningful competition is created wherever possible in calling for quotations or tenders for the requirement 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Australian Government Advertising Service makes no payments for advertising and related services on behalf of Commonwealth departments or authorities. 
All such payments to advertising agencies, including amounts to be paid by those agencies to production houses and the media are made by the departments and authorities themselves. 
Information relating to these payments during the periods in question has already been provided by Ministers in response to a series of Questions upon Notice asked by the honourable member during February of this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of persons relocated to employment in each State from 1 October 1976 to 30 June 1978 (the latest detailed figures available) are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The level of youth unemployment for those persons aged between 15 and 24, in both percentage terms and actual numbers, is contained in the table below. The figures are the latest information available at this time. Caution should be exercised in the use of these figures as in many respects they are not comparable due to slight differences in age groups between the countries. 
Furthermore, the information contained in the table is derived from 2 separate sources: firstly the publication 'Labour Force Statistics', a quarterly supplement to the OECD Yearbook of Labour Force Statistics, 1977, in which the level of youth unemployment for selected OECD countries is presented; and secondly the publication 'The OECD Observer' (issue No. 90/January 1978) where youth unemployment rates for comparable age groups for the year 1976 were published. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 2013 (See  Hansard,  22 November 1978, page 3257). 
Education: Disarmament and the Arms Race  (Question No. 2784) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Details of staff allocations from the Brisbane pool of relief Electorate Secretaries for the period 1 December 1977 to 31 October 1978 are shown in the table below prepared by my Department 
It is not possible to allocate costs to each  Senator or  Member individually. However, the total cost of operating the Brisbane pool during this period was $49,861. This includes salaries, travelling allowance and fares. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Administrative Services owns and operates sixteen computers. There are no computers owned or operated in other organisations under the control of the Minister. No computers are in the process of being purchased and none are rented. The sixteen computers serve three different areas and the rest of the answer is given below in respect of each atea separately. 
There are other computer services provided to the Department and other organisations under the control of the Minister. However in no case is the computer owned, operated or rented by the Department or organisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Full legal fees paid to counsel in the last six national wage cases were: 
For quarter ended 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As at 30 September 1978, 74 projects. 
, (3) and (4) Project titles, expenditure to 30 September 1978, expenditure allocations for particular projects in 1978-79, and the electorates concerned are listed in the following table: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) and (b) The Public Service Board, which is the approving authority for Departmental travel on Concorde aircraft has informed all Departments that such approval will be given only in exceptional circumstances. Overseas travel by a Minister and accompanying officers is subject to the Prime Minister's approval. 
The additional cost of travelling by Concorde aircraft between New York and London as compared with the cost of an ordinary first class air fare is approximately $A 1 30. 
(a) and (b) (i) 1976-77-Nil; (ii) 1977-78-with the Prime Minister's approval, two officers of the Department of Administrative Services accompanied the Prime Minister from New York to London on the Concorde on 7 June 1978. (iii) Nil. 
(i) Nil; (ii) Nil; (iii) Nil. 
Nil. 
Pursuant to section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904 I present the annual report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 1 3 August 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government's policy is designed to provide for the democratic control of industrial organisations by their members, including giving every member of an organisation a full and equal opportunity to influence policy within his organisation, so that union management will reflect the real needs and aspirations of the rank and file membership. In accordance with that policy commitment, the Government introduced a number of amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act during 1 976. 
and (4) As the honourable member would be aware, prior to the amendments made by the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act No. 64 of 1976, the Act required the rules of an organisation to provide that elections for offices in an organisation be by direct vote of the rank and file membership, with a limited exception in relation to these offices of a part-time nature on the committee of management of the organisation where the rules provided for a one-tier collegiate system of election for those offices. 
By Act No. 64 of 1976, the relevant sections of which were proclaimed on 9 August 1976, the Government introduced an amendment to require all elections by a direct voting system for offices with policy or management functions to be by secret postal ballot. This is still the case. Provision was made for the Industrial Registrar to exempt an organisation from that requirement upon being satisfied that the rules as they stood at the time of the amendment provided for the conduct of an election by a secret ballot other than a secret postal ballot, and the conduct of the election in accordance with those rules would be likely to result in a fuller participation by members of the organisation than would result from a postal ballot and that it would afford to members an adequate opportunity of voting without intimidation. 
In November 1976, following discussions with the peak union and employer councils and numerous representations, the Government introduced further amendments to the Act to give organisations the choice of providing for elections for offices by direct vote of the appropriate sections of the rank and file or by a defined form of collegiate voting. In relation to offices the duties of which are full time in nature, the only collegiate system allowable is a one-tier collegiate electoral system, i.e. a system whereby a conference or council is elected by direct vote of the appropriate section of the membership and the full time officers are elected by and from the members of the conference or council. The Act allows current holders of office, from dme to time, to be members of the college which elects persons to those offices for the following term, provided those office bearers do not constitute more than IS per cent of the members of the college and were originally elected to office under a one-tier collegiate electoral system or by direct vote of the appropriate section of the membership. Also they must have held office continuously (not necessarily the same office) since being first elected to office. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Productivity to his Question on Notice No. 1794. (See  Hansard,  23 November 1978, pages 3351 and 3352). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am not aware of any specific approach from  Mr Hinze  or of any correspondence being received from the Queensland Government concerning this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. ' 
) and ( 3 ) Figures derived from the usual data sources on the level of civilian employment in the United States of 
America, namely the 'Monthly Labour Review' and 'Employment and Earnings' (both published by the US Department of Labor) showed that the number of civilian employment stood at 86,088,000 in June 1974 and 94,819,000 in June 1978-an increase of 8,73 1,000. 
Lead: Effect on Humans  (Question No. 2373) 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
As at 30 June 1978, the number of project officers employed on Community Youth Support Scheme projects was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) The Community Youth Support Scheme policy and guidelines for local committees set down the policy and operational criteria for State CYSS Committees' consideration of project applications. Accordingly, the approval of an application is dependent upon it coming within the guidelines and the continuation of funding is dependent upon the approved project operating within the guidelines. 
and (4) The review of CYSS which led to the issue of the revised guidelines earlier this year included a national survey of CYSS projects. As part of that survey some 92 project officers were interviewed to obtain their views on the operation of the Scheme. Their views were taken into account in the review process, but it is not possible to identify their particular inputs into the guidelines. 
Salt Content in Drinking Water  (Question No.  2415) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 20 October 1978, 170 certificates of exemption had been issued pursuant to section 144a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904. 
Of the 170 certificates issued, 132 were issued following applications based on religious grounds and 38 were issued following applications based on other grounds. 
Under section 144a of the Act, before a certificate of exemption is issued, the Registrar must be satisfied that the applicant's conscientious beliefs do not allow the applicant to be a member of any association of a kind described in subsection 132 ( 1) of the Act. 
The term 'conscientious belief has been judicially described as denoting an individual's inward conviction of what is morally right or morally wrong, being genuinely reached and held after some process of thinking about the subject. 
The question of whether an applicant holds such a belief is not one which can be answered by the application of guidelines. 
It is not possible to answer this pan of the honourable member's question on the information available to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)No. 
See answer to ( 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) On 1 September 1978 1 announced the establishment of an interdepartmental committee to consider the effects of the introduction of new technology on industry and employment. I subsequently presented two reports of that committee to the Government. 
On 1 December 1978, the Prime Minister announced the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into Technological Change in Australia. 
In particular the Committee is to: 
identify: 
technological change which is occurring or is likely to occur in Australia; and 
new technologies which have the potential for substantial impact in Australia; 
examine relevant overseas experience and studies of technological change, and to assess mechanisms used to introduce and evaluate new technology. 
The Inquiry is to be chaired by Professor Rupert Myers with  Mr W.  Mansfield, Federal Secretary of the Australian Telecommunications Employees' Association and  Mr A.  Coogan, General Manager of Nabalco as the other members. 
The Prime Minister, at the same dme, announced the establishment by the National Labour Consultative Council of a Tripartite Committee which would, among other things, examine the labour relations aspects of technological change. The Committee is under the Chairmanship of  Mr J.  C. Trethowan,  Chairman  of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. 
Yes, I am aware that officers of the Industrial Relations Bureau have been in contact with both the Melbourne City Council and the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union. The Acting Director of the Bureau has informed me that he has given instructions to seek summonses in the Federal Court of Australia against both the Melbourne City Council and the AMWSU for offences against certain sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The alleged offences, I am informed, are as a result of complaints made by  Mr Kane  following a dispute last year. 
I am not able to give precise details of the summonses to be sought, but I am informed that they have been sought only after a very thorough examination and consideration of the known facts in relation to this issue and all the legal aspects involved. I am able to say that the summonses sought against the Melbourne City Council allege breaches of section 5 of the Act. Section 5 of the Act makes it an offence for an employer to dismiss an employee or injure him in his employment by reason of the circumstance that the employee has refused or failed to join in industrial action or with intent to coerce a person to join in industrial action. 
I am further informed that the summonses sought against AMWSU are in relation to section 188 of the Act which prohibits registered organisations from taking various actions specified in the Act associated with an employee's refusal or failure to join in industrial action. 
I emphasise that any decision for the Bureau to take action in this way in pursuance of its responsibilities to ensure observance of the Act is one entirely for the Director to take. Therefore, the position is that I have been informed that the Bureau has sought summonses. It is my understanding that if such summonses are issued the matter will become sub judice. Therefore, I think it would be inappropriate for me to comment further at this stage. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition clearly has not studied the answer I gave to a question on this matter yesterday, because in that answer I said that any decision by the Industrial Relations Bureau to pursue its statutory functions in the way that it has decided to pursue them is a matter for the Director alone. I also said that after full and thorough investigation of all aspects, including the legal aspects, the Director and the Bureau decided to take the action they have taken. 
Yes, I am well aware of the serious situation facing the airline industry at present. Of course the Government is most concerned at any prospect that the airline services may have to be terminated due to a continuation of strike action or bans action. The industrial action to which the airlines are being subjected at the present time springs from claims made by certain ground staff unions for wage increases, which in turn can be traced back to a Full Bench decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the middle of last year and a later decision by  Mr Commissioner  Deverall. 
I am sure the House will appreciate the potential for disruption and not only the inconvenience to Australian travellers but also the possibility of substantial revenue losses to the Australian tourist industry which could flow from this dispute if overseas and internal services are seriously disrupted. I regret to say that the serious disruption which the airline industry faces will be with us very soon if the present strike action and bans action continue. I should point out that the airline operators have been actively seeking, through the proper tribunals, a solution to this dispute. They have met under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Coldham and they have also met by themselves. They have discussed the wage claims and proposals have been put by the operators. These involve wage increases to a large number of the ground staff who are now on strike. 
I should also point out that in making these proposals the operators were very conscious of the attitude of the Commission and the need to work within the principles of the Commission for wage determination. In other words, the airlines have genuinely sought a resolution of this dispute. I regret to say that their proposals were rejected by the employees and the strike continues. Of course, two of the operators concerned are Commonwealth bodies. Both my colleague, the Minister for Transport, and I have been kept fully informed of developments and the efforts that have been made to settle the strike. Further attempts to settle what is potentially a very serious dispute will proceed, I understand, the day after tomorrow, before  Mr Justice  Coldham in the Commission. I emphasise that this is the proper place for the resolution of this dispute. I hope that the further conferences will provide a responsible settlement of the dispute and that the union members concerned will have regard to the threat to the jobs of many of their fellow workers as well as to the inconvenience possibly caused to the community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Answers by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and Question No. 3065  (Hansard,  20 February 1979 page 130). 
Indexing of 'Hansard' (Question No. 3088) 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee Act 1977 I present the report of the Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee for the period 5 December 1977 to 30 June 19781 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that no statistics have been maintained of the amount of underpayment or arrears in wages discovered, but for the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1978, for which information is available, $808,105, representing underpayments and arrears in wages and other monetary entitlements, was recovered by voluntary payment and by court order. 
I am informed that during the same period 60 prosecutions of employers for breaches of federal awards were upheld by courts. Separate figures have not been kept of the amount of money recovered by court order prior to 30 June 1976, but in 1976-77 $3,676 was recovered by prosecution action and $196,1 IS by voluntary payment; in 1977-78 no moneys were recovered by court order, while $220,982 was recovered by voluntary payment. 
I am informed that as at 30 June 1978 prosecution action was under consideration in respect of seven employers for a total of 46 prima facie breaches of awards. Of these cases two had been under examination for less than three months; four cases for up to nine months, and one case for approximately 18 months. 
Honourable members are all by now well aware of the irresponsible action of the New South Wales Government in offering a reduced working week to power workers in that State. That decision is quite contrary to the interests of the community in that State and is totally against the national interest. The Commonwealth Government's economic policies have been consistently directed towards creating the conditions or environment necessary to underpin sustained economic recovery. Indeed, these policies have resulted in a substantial fall in inflation and reduction in the growth of labour costs. They have set the stage for a renewed and sustainable expansion in activity and employment. 
It is important to recognise, however, that in the interests of the whole community it is critical to build upon, and not let slip, the important gains already made in stabilising prices and costs. In line with this the Government will continue to emphasise at national wage and other major hearings before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the need for maximum restraint in wages and other labour costs as part of the Government's integrated policy to consolidate and foster the current signs of recovery. There is no room whatsoever for complacency. In its December 1978 national wage decision the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission repeated earlier warnings that: 
Regardless of the reasons for increases in labour costs outside national productivity and indexation, regardless of the source of the increases (award or overaward wage or other labour cost) and regardless of how the increases are achieved (arbitration, consent or duress), unless their impact in economic terms is 'negligible', we believe the Australian economy cannot afford indexation. 
The Commission also commented on what it saw as a 'groundswell of opposition' to the indexation system and said that if the trend of industrial disputation continued it must undoubtedly endanger the whole indexation package as we now know it. Regrettably, the warnings of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would seem to have been ignored by some self-interest groups in the community. Hardly a day goes by but the community is beset by industrial disputation of one kind or another. I refer for example to building workers, transport workers, airline workers, oil industry workers.  (Quorum formed).  I refer also to storemen, the metal trades employees and postal workers. The list goes on. 
There has been a range of increases in wages and allowances, other than national wage increases, occurring in recent times. Many of these have been in what might be termed key industries, and the increases consequently attain an even greater significance, economically, because of their 'flow-on' impact. Labour cost increases, in addition to national wage adjustments, can only add to the growth in labour costs, fuel inflationary pressures in the economy and jeopardise the current signs of renewed growth in activity and employment that we have worked so hard to achieve. It is essential that the whole community work together in an endeavour to restore fully the health of the Australian economy. Governments, as custodians of the public interest, have a particular responsibility to provide proper leadership to this end. It is against this background that the Government is disturbed- indeed disgusted- at the irresponsible, presumably politically expedient decision of the New South Wales Government to introduce shorter working hours in the New South Wales Power Industry. 
The Commonwealth's views on so-called productivity bargaining deals of this kind were outlined in its submissions to the Inquiry into the Principles of Wage Fixation conducted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission last year. The Commonwealth made its view clear that the concept of productivity bargainingparticularly as it has emerged in recent times- is incompatible with the national and orderly wage fixation system which embraces the equit-able concept of national sharing of productivity gains. The Government is opposed to productivity bargaining arrangements, such as that introduced in the New South Wales power industry by the Wran Government- for economic, equity and industrial reasons. Rewarding employees for productivity gains in their particular industry, by way of reduced hours of work, and then allowing them to participate in any wage increase based on aggregate productivity growth which might flow from a national wage decision, only makes those employees a privileged group. Their wages would be adjusted for productivity increase at two different levels but it would be the same productivity. 
The Government also rejects such productivity bargaining arrangements on 'equity' grounds. 
The Australian economy is composed of industries which have widely varying levels of output, performance and capacity for productivity growth. An industry's potential for future productivity growth is dependent on a wide range of diverse factors and relationships- including the scope for the introduction of new machinery; the application of new technology; and its position to take advantage of economies of scale. Moreover, the scope for significant improvements in labour efficiency and changes in work practices will also vary widely. Accordingly, there is no correlation between how hard or how fast employees in different industries work and the comparative productivity performance or scope for improvement in those industries. 
For these reasons, the Government strongly believes that the benefits of any productivity improvements should not be confined to particular groups of workers. To do so is totally inequitable. It should be distributed for the welfare of the whole community through general wage adjustments, by lower prices or improved standards of service. Thirdly, since all industries and enterprises do not have the same scope to improve their productivity performance, such bargains as this one in the New South Wales power industry will generate additional pressures for shorter hours in other areas which do not have the capacity to afford such concessions. The more instances of productivity bargaining that emerge, the greater the risk that expectations will build up and concessions will be extended to other groups regardless of the capacity of the economy to sustain those concessions, or the ability of the individual enterprises or unions to achieve or to offer the required productivity improvement. 
It should also be emphasised that bargaining for improved wages and conditions against increased work performance directly discriminates against employees in industries and enterprises which are already efficient in the sense that these industries and enterprises have less capacity to improve performance significantly, either because of employees' cooperation with management in the past or for other reasons. It would favour employee groups which have indulged in restrictive work practices and the like in the past and which have, therefore, greater ability to improve their work performance. The supporters of productivity bargaining argue that the potential increases in productivity are dependent on the participation of employees in changed work practices or arrangements and will not emerge without some form of trade-off by the employer. They say this sets this increase in productivity apart and makes it 'special'. 
The Commonwealth does not agree with this proposition. If there is scope for significant improvement in labour efficiency, changes in work practices and so forth, there is scope for lowering the unit costs of production. In other words, the Government would suggest that the increase in productivity that the New South Wales Government says will compensate for the increase in costs resulting from the shorter hours should have occurred in any case and the benefits distributed to the whole community through lower prices for power. Even if extension on productivity grounds were to be limited to those industries and enterprises which could in fact meet certain rigorous conditions and criteria of productivity increase, we would be confronted with the emerging situation of a very clear division between the 'haves' and 'have-nots'- a situation under which wages and fundamental conditions of employment are to be governed by capacity for productivity improvement in particular industries. 
It is for all these reasons, as I said earlier, that the Government is most concerned at the effects of arrangements- such as that introduced in the New South Wales power industry- on the community. Even if the increase in costs is offset by productivity increases, and this is not at all guaranteed, such increases should have occurred in any case and the benefits distributed to the community. In addition, this decision cannot be expected to be confined to the power workers in New South Wales; it will inevitably lead to pressures for flow-ons to other areas with obvious adverse economic and industrial consequences. 

 Mr Wran is reported in the  Australian  of 23 March as saying that it was the present Federal Government which had reduced hours of work for employees of Telecom and Australia Post. Such a statement is a complete misrepresentation of the facts. Firstly, it was the former Whitlam Government which moved towards a reduction in standard hours of work in Commonwealth employment as part of its overall policy in making the public service a 'pacesetter' in the area of pay and conditions of employment. An in principle agreement on reduced hours had already been reached between the parties when the Governor-General appointed the caretaker Government in November 1975. Furthermore, that Government was bound by the conditions of its appointment which stipulated that it should not change any policies of the Labor Government during the caretaker period, and this, of course, included that Government's policies in relation to a reduction in standard hours in Commonwealth employment. 
In December 1975 the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Employees' Association sought to have the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ratify a consent agreement for the introduction of reduced hours for ATEA members. The Commonwealth intervened in those proceedings in the national interest. Since the matter had reached such an advanced stage and given the spirit of the obligations it undertook during the caretaker period, the Government felt constrained to argue that provided the Commission was fully satisfied with the substance and reality of the arrangements in the proposed agreement, and subject to their compliance with the national wage indexation guidelines, the Government would not oppose the ATEA-ATC agreement being ratified. In March 1976 the Government opposed a reduction in hours for ATEA members employed by the Australian Postal Commission and in its submission to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission argued that a concession of the union's claim would create pressures for a general flow-on, the overall effects of which would be economically damaging and jeopardise the indexation package. Furthermore, the Government submitted that the concept of productivity bargaining as a means of reducing hours of work was economically unsound and industrially inequitable, and its piecemeal approach was contrary to the history of standard hours cases for a reduction in hours. 
Members of the House can therefore see that this Government's policy has been one of firmly and consistently opposing a reduction in hours of work in the public and private sectors. The Government's views have been put before the Commission whenever that tribunal has been considering claims for reduced hours, and, as I have already discussed, before the wage fixation principles inquiry conducted by the Commission last year. Earlier this month, the Government advised the peak union councils that it would not be altering its policy on reduced hours, and that the shorter hours guidelines for the consideration of hours claims in Commonwealth employment would not be reintroduced. 
The pressures to flow on the Wran Government's offer will be significant. It can be expected that unions covering some 17,000 workers in electricity distributing councils in New South Wales will press for a flow-on of the 3 7 'A hour week. The Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric 
Authority, a Commonwealth authority, will also be placed under pressure to concede a reduction in hours as it has a number of employees working side by side with Electricity Commission of New South Wales employees at power stations in the Snowy Mountains. The economic and industrial consequences of the Wran Government's decision cannot be confined to New South Wales alone. The offer of a 3714 hour week will inevitably increase the industrial pressures upon State electricity supply authorities in Victoria, Tasmania, Queensland and Western Australia to make a similar hours concession. The Wran Government's actions in this matter are economically and industrially irresponsible, and it is this attitude which has become a hallmark of the Labor Party at both the State and federal levels. Instead of facing up to the need for wage restraint, as this Government has done, the Labor Party continues deliberately to ignore the need for wage restraint because it realises that its links with the trade union movement would make implemention impossible. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr MartinOrder! The Minister's time has expired. 
by leave- Since this Government was elected in December 1975, all its efforts, and my own, have been directed towards improving the industrial relations climate in Australia. These efforts have resulted in a dramatic reduction in the levels of industrial disruption compared with those of the Labor Government- an average of 4.1 million working days lost a year under Labor; 1.8 million days lost a year under this Government, if the Medibank strike is excluded. However, the very worrying and disruptive developments in recent weeks in industrial relations have required, and received, careful consideration by the Government. Specific decisions have been taken in response to them. 
First, in relation to areas of employment where the Commonwealth has appropriate legal powers relating to terms and conditions of employment, within the full limits of those powers a firm policy has been adopted. In circumstances where wage claims and claims in regard to terms and conditions are being pressed via work bans, limitations and other disruptive industrial action, Government policy provides for: (a) no work as directed, no pay; (b) standdowns; and (c) applications for standdown and/or suspension clauses to be inserted in awards where they do not presently exist. The Federal Government will be advising employers to adopt a similar approach. 
This goes to the heart of the problem; that is, unions taking industrial action of one kind or another prior to or during a hearing of their claims by the responsible tribunal. There is no need for such action. Proper procedures are always available and it is both unreasonable and irresponsible for any union to behave in this way. It leads to unnecessary loss of income for the people engaged in this action, loss of production, export earnings or contracts, disruption to trade, concern for business profitability and, hence, loss of job opportunities and community inconvenience. No-one wins; everyone loses. Ask the families and children of Victoria who were denied milk during the recent strike. Campaigns of industrial disruption which attempt to intimidate employers, the Government, the public and those with the responsibility to administer industrial relations institutions are an affront to the community. They will be resisted by the Government with all the powers it can bring to bear to make all parties work within the Established system for settling differences in industrial relations. 
The Government will be submitting to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that the Commission recommend or direct return to work or cessation of bans in these circumstances, and will be advising employers to do the same. Furthermore it will be submitting to the Commission that it not proceed to hear the unions ' arguments while direct industrial action is continuing or order a secret ballot to determine union members' attitudes to the industrial action being pursued where that is considered appropriate. The Government will encourage State governments involved or affected, other employer interests affected and other unions whose members may be affected and other unions whose members may be affected by the industrial action to lend their support to return to normal work. 
The Government reiterates in the strongest terms its expectations that employers will subscribe to a policy of wage restraint and should not give in to industrial pressure. It will also examine possible action against employers who concede to industrial pressure and expose other employers to similar action. It must be demonstrated to the unions that their cause will not be advanced by industrial disruption. As I have already announced in the case of the Transport Workers' Union, the Government will consider applying for the deregistration of a union engaged in action which interferes with interstate or overseas trade and commerce or the provision of the public service by the Commonwealth or the State. Employers affected can, of course, take a similar approach. 
In relation to the Transport Workers' Union, reports in this morning's Press that the Government has halted proceedings relating to the deregistration of the Transport Workers Union are false. Action which had already been started to prepare all the documentation necessary for filing of an application for deregistration is continuing. It will be completed. 
On completion of the documentation, and if all strikes, bans and limitations have ceased, and there is no further threat of such action, the Government will consider whether to go ahead with filing the application. Should further industrial action take place or be proposed, the application will be filed immediately. 
There is also a major industrial dispute in the paint industry, which involves the Miscellaneous Workers Union. This threatens thousands of workers with standdowns. Hundreds have already been stood down. The Government has informed that paint companies that it expects them to continue to resist wage and other claims outside the indexation guidelines. Should a settlement be made outside the guidelines, the Government will instruct the Prices Justification Tribunal to institute an immediate inquiry into the industry. However, the Government will fully back the present resolve of the paint manufacturing industry to oppose the wage claims. It will ensure that this industry and other industries and their employees are not placed in jeopardy by any continuation of the dispute. Accordingly, consideration will be given to importation of paint free of duty under by-law, in order to make up any shortfall in production. 
As is apparent from this statement, the Government is prepared to use a wide range of measures to deal with industrial disruption according to the circumstances. The effects on the community are becoming so serious and widespread that no responsible Government can ignore them and we do not intend to do so. I present the following paper: 
Current Industrial Disputation- Ministerial Statement, 3 April 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr McLeay)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
It is true that in 1972, 1 think it was, an amendment was made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which divided the powers of conciliation and arbitration. I must say that whilst the principle established by that change to the Act sounded good, it was not very successful in practice. Circumstances have changed, and the point raised by the right honourable member in relation to wage decisions which generate pressures for increases outside national wage case hearings, is causing particular concern to the Government. As I understood his question, there are two elements to it. The first relates to the division of conciliation and arbitration powers which, as I said, has been tried and was not successful in practice. The second relates to the principle that once guidelines are established by a Full Bench decision, certain processes should follow. That is an interesting point and I would be prepared to consider it carefully. 
I am aware of the reports referred to by the honourable member. If they are correct it does mean that Woolworths Ltd has been successful in resisting claims by the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia in respect of company contributions to that union's superannuation fund. However, like the honourable member for Ballarat, the Government is extremely concerned about wage increases conceded outside national wage case hearings. Therefore, we are extremely concerned about the reported settlement arrived at by Woolworths. The Government has already commissioned inquiries by the Prices Justification Tribunal into two items affecting the consumer price index, namely, beef marketing and processing and the price of processed foods. The Woolworths decision will be taken into account by the Government when, through my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, it is considering whether to initiate further inquiries into items affecting the consumer price index. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has a very long experience in industrial relations and, indeed, union affairs generally. Tonight he has made very grave allegations, which, obviously, have serious implications. So far as my own Ministerial responsibility is concerned, I will ensure that those parts of his allegations that are within my area of responsibility are brought before the relevant authorities. 
I also noted that some of his comments could involve authorities in jurisdictions beyond my ministerial responsibility. I will examine Hansard carefully tomorrow to see whether I should refer those aspects of what he raised to people in other jurisdictions. I repeat that the honourable member has made allegations of the gravest kind. He also referred to the fact that some time ago, this Parliament legislated to require annual accounting of unions to their members, and the auditing of those accounts. For the information of the honourable member, for many months now a tripartite committee of the National Labour Consultative Council has been working on recommendations which will lead to the drafting of the regulations required by that legislation. Since the requisite regulations have not been completed, the legislation has not yet been proclaimed. The National Labour Consultative Tripartite Council has almost completed its work in this field. As soon as it has, and the necessary procedures have been followed, the regulations will be promulgated and the Act proclaimed- this on a date that will enable unions and industrial organisations generally, of both employers and employees, to comply with the new requirements of the Act. 
I realise that in this matter there has been substantial delay, but it is one that is extremely complex. It involves, in a very immediate way, the reporting of many organisations. The Government has been very conscious of the need to ensure that these complex regulations are drafted in the best way that will enable the legislation to operate in the way in which it was designed to operate. As I have said before, the legislation will be brought into operation as soon as possible, bearing in mind the complexities of the issues involved. In the meantime, as I have already indicated to the House, I will look most carefully at the remarks of the honourable member and see that they are brought to the attention of the people concerned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I heard the honourable member for Melbourne Ports put this point earlier in the day. I think that he has overlooked the fact that  Mr Speaker's  ruling related to the naming of individuals in a question without notice. It was in that context that  Mr Speaker's  ruling applied. 
House adjourned at 11.8 p.m. 
I am aware of the reports referred to by the honourable gentleman and I am informed that they are substantially correct. There has been a campaign for wage increases clearly outside the wage indexation guidelines and directly in conflict with the policy of wage restraint. In fact, it is an attempt to extort additional payments, particularly in circumstances where the time factor is critical in completing contracts. For example, the so-called insurance which has been referred to is equivalent to a threat that unless an additional $21 a week is paid industrial action will delay the project and increase costs to the contractor. As honourable members will be aware, the Federal award in this area is a paid rates award which already contains an element to cover over-award payments. I understand that currently builders labourers are receiving substantially in excess of $200 a week. There is a current log of claims before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission.  Mr Justice  Alley said, when the claims came before him, that clearly the campaign to which the honourable member referred was outside the guidelines and in breach of the paid rates award. He made a strong recommendation that all bans be lifted before the case came on for hearing. The rank and file members of the BLF are getting fed up with this sort of behaviour by their union officials, which is costing them - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-I am glad to see that it is a matter of some levity in the Labor Party that builders labourers and their families are losing hundreds of dollars because of the actions of these officials, which in turn is adding millions of dollars to the cost of major projects all over Australia and therefore inhibiting employment opportunities. It surprises me that that sort of campaign has that effect on the Opposition. I am glad to say that the majority of employers have refused to concede to this sort of industrial pressure. I applaud the stand that they have taken. I emphasise, to take up the other point the honourable gentleman raised, that the Government will not hesitate to take any action in its power against employers who concede to industrial pressure, including asking the Prices Justification Tribunal to take into consideration any payments made by contractors or developers which are designed to circumvent the guidelines, in examining the pricing structure in the area involved. 
I am aware, from my own knowledge and from statements that have been made by various people, of the shortage of tradesmen in certain skilled trades in Australia. The shortage does not extend to all skilled trades but it particularly affects the area which the honourable gentleman mentioned, that is, the metal trades. I understand that it also affects the electrical trades. I understand that relatively large numbers of skilled tradesmen are working out of trade. I think that they are doing so for a variety of reasons, not just the one mentioned by the honourable gentleman. For example, many skilled tradesmen progress to management positions. That is very desirable. Large numbers of people work outside their trade in that way. The honourable gentleman referred to relativities. As he would know, once relativities are upset in one area, distortions in other areas are almost inevitable. That is a question for the proper arbitral tribunals to decide on the merits of each case, including the arguments put before them in relation to the metal trades award. 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of the new arrangements in the stevedoring industry. I seek leave to make a statement relating to the review. 
Leave granted. 
-In. October 1977 the Government introduced legislation to abolish the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and to introduce new administrative, financial and industrial arrangements in the stevedoring industry. In my second reading speech I indicated that the Government had broadly accepted the recommendations of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference chaired by  Sir Richard  Kirby on operational matters and by  Mr N.  F. Stevens on funding aspects of the industry. Their recommendations were embodied in the new arrangements I was then proposing. I also indicated at the time that the Government would review the changed administrative, financial and industrial relations arrangements after they had operated for some twelve months to determine how effective they were in practice. 

 Mr Speaker, it is a matter of history now that after almost two years extensive consultation with industry parties, representatives of the port authorities and user interests the new arrangements became operative on 5 December 1977. On 1 1 December 1978, 1 announced the establishment of a working party to provide the Government with an overall review of the new arrangements introduced some 12 months earlier. The working party was chaired by  Mr John  Wallace,  President  of the Maritime Services Board of New South Wales. Its membership was drawn from organisations with standing membership of the Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council and consisted of representatives from the port authorities, stevedoring employers, including representatives from Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Australian National Line, the Waterside Workers' Federation and the Australian Shippers' Council. 
The working party was assisted in its review by specialist reports from the Federal Co-ordinating Committee on the management aspects of the new arrangements and from  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Robinson on the operation of the port conciliator service established under the new arrangements. The Stevedoring Industry Finance Committee has reported to me on the operation up to 31 December 1978 of the financial aspects of the new arrangements for which it has a statutory responsibility. The review reports concluded that, generally speaking, the new arrangements have contributed to better performance in the stevedoring industry and that they have gone a long way towards meeting those difficulties identified by  Mr Justice  Northrop as far back as February 1976. I have made arrangements for the review reports to be made available and I do not therefore propose to deal with the views expressed in those reports, or conclusions reached other than in a general fashion. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
It has not been possible to obtain, from the records now held in the office of the Industrial Registrar, the number of applications made under section 47 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in some States and Territories during the earlier years. The following information, which is given in tabular form, is the best that can now be made available by the Industrial Registrar. 
The figures in the tables are those of 'applications', rather than 'persons' as asked by the honourable member, but I am advised that each person would almost certainly make only one application in a year. In the case of the applications made under section 47 of the Act the records do not indicate whether an application is a ' first ' application or a renewal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information required by the honourable member is recorded in the answer, provided by the Minister for Health, to question number 3302 which is recorded in the  Hansard  dated 28 March 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information required by the honourable member is recorded in the answer provided by the Minister for Health to question number 3303, which is recorded in the  Hansard  dated 28 March 1979. 
I am aware of the threatened stoppage to which the honourable member referred. I understand that transport union leaders announced this morning that there would be an indefinite stoppage in Victoria and involving the Australian National Railways Commission in South Australia, commencing at midnight tonight. I understand that the claim is for a $10 a week increase which would restore relativities with employees of the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales. The history of this matter dates back to 1977 when Commissioner Walker of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission made a recommendation- not a decision- in relation to those employees of the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales who were covered by federal awards to bring them up to the same amounts as were paid to those employees of that Commission who worked understate awards. 
Subsequently, unions in other States sought to incorporate this increase. Commissioner Walker then sought to include an amount of $6 in the relevant awards. That decision was appealed against by the Victorian Government, the Federal Government intervened in support and the Full Bench upheld the appeal. The present claim for $10 follows an announcement that the question would be brought before an anomalies conference of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on Thursday of this week. The Federal Government is currently considering what action it might take in relation to that. The Federal Government will be approaching the Full Bench this afternoon seeking an adjournment of the national wage case unless the Australian Council of Trade Unions is successful in getting the threatened strike action called off. The Federal Government will be supported in that course of action by the Victorian Government. I urge all the unionists involved to consider this matter very carefully. Not only will they be prejudicing their own earnings but also their threatened action could lead to the stand-down of thousands of their workmates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no requirement for either employer or employee organisations to report strikes to my Department. The Department becomes aware of disputes as part of its normal functions but is not in a position to provide statistical details of the number of strikes during 1 977-78. Notifications of disputes to a Presidential Member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to the Industrial Registrar, under Section 25 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, concern only disputes arising in the Commonwealth industrial jurisdiction. Records of disputes arising in both State and Commonwealth jurisdictions are published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The figures for the period mentioned in the honourable member's question can be found in the ABS publication 'Industrial Disputes- Quarterly', No. 6322.0, for the September 1977 quarter to the June 1978 quarter inclusive. 
As to the matter concerning Orders for secret ballots, I am advised that one member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission made such an Order in relation to a construction project in Victoria during 1 977. 
I am aware of the issue of ambit claims to which the honourable gentleman's question refers. It is a fact that an existing decision of the High Court requires unions, unless they are to make logs of claims excessively often, to put claims in those terms. I do agree with him that such logs of claims in the case of union members who are not versed in the legal technicalities can raise expectations to an unreal degree. In view of the high legal content of the honourable member's question, I shall take up the issue he raises with my colleague the AttorneyGeneral and bring the honourable member's suggestion to his attention. 
-The first point I make is that since it took over the functions of the old Arbitration Inspectorate, the Industrial Relations Bureau, as part of its normal day-to-day ongoing functions, has been carrying out thousands of inspections of a routine kind, and has been giving advice to companies, individual employers, unions and unionists on their rights in relation to industrial legislation, the observance of organisations ' rules and things of that kind. The point I am making is that the role of the Industrial Relations Bureau in the Kane case is just one minute part of the very constructive role it has been playing in industrial relations. 
I am interested to hear the Leader of the Opposition say that its role is a destructive one. I am interested to hear him say that the thousands of industrial inspections that the 
Bureau carries out, having taken over the functions of the Arbitration Inspectorate, are destructive. That is certainly a new view which the Opposition has not put before. So far as the Kane case is concerned, the Bureau and the Government will be examining the implications of the decision. 
I have seen the advertisement to which the honourable gentleman refers. During the current national wage case hearing the Government has drawn to the attention of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission statements by various union leaders of a similar kind to that made in this advertisement which, if pursued, would put the whole wage fixation process at very serious risk. The heading 'Full indexation or Else' in the Australian Bank Employees Union advertisement, which the honourable member quoted, really speaks for itself. It is a threat. It is a threat that unless the union gets what it wants it is prepared to embark immediately on a campaign of disruption which the union must realise cannot change the decision which the Full Bench hands down. The union is attempting to blackmail the Commission. It is threatening its own industry and the community with quite unnecessary disruption because it may be unhappy with a decision which has not yet been made. 
I emphasise again that once that decision is made it cannot be changed. Therefore, members of the ABEU may well ask their union officials what they hope to achieve. In the light of their irresponsible and- I agree with the honourable member- provocative statement, the union's expressed concern that it does not want people put out of work is seen for what it is. It is nothing but a smoke screen to hide the union's very selfish and, I might add, totally contradictory motives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Yes. 
, (3), (4) and (5) A fundamental step in the implementation of the Government's policy concerning consultation was the creation in June1977 of the National Labour Consultative Council comprising representatives of employees, employers and the Government. As mentioned in the pamphlet to which the honourable member refers, the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council means that for the first time effective statutory tripartite machinery is available to provide a continuing forum for consultation between the Government, employer organizations and the trade union movement. Its members are required to meet at least once each quarter to consult together on industrial relations and manpower matters of national concern. 
Since the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council all significant industrial relations legislation for which I have been responsible, with the exception of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act, has been the subject of consultation in the National Labour Consultative Council. With respect to that Act, the Government regarded its introduction and passage as a matter of urgency having regard to the effect which a then occurring dispute was having upon the provision of services to the public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The Public Service Board, which is the approving authority for departmental travel in Concorde flights, has advised all departments that such approval will be given only in exceptional circumstances. Overseas travel by a Minister, including numbers of accompanying Department and Ministerial staff, is subject to the Prime Minister's approval. 
The fare in November for a Concorde flight from New York to London was $126.15 above the normal first class fare for a New York- London flight. 
No officers of my former Department sought approval, were granted approval or were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79. However, the Secretary of my former Department travelled with me on Concorde between London and Washington in June1977, and paid the difference between Concorde fare and1st class fare personally. 
None- see references in (1 ) and (3 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) From 1975 to 5 December 1978 the functions of the present Department of Industrial Relations were performed by elements within the then Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. I am informed that the industrial relations elements of the former Department did not commission any opinion polls or surveys during that time, and none have been commissioned by the present Department. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am informed that, commencing in mid- 1978, the Food Preservers Union engaged in a campaign against a number of food processing companies in Victoria aimed at achieving increased wages in the form of higher over-award payments. It is understood that some wage concessions occurred, in the form of private agreements outside the relevant award. As such there are very grave doubts that these reported increases comply with the wage fixing principles of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The honourable member will recall that on 26 September 1 978, in response to a Question Without Notice asked by the honourable member for Casey, I stated that if the report of a wage settlement by a particular company was correct, the Government would have to consider the appropriateness of an inquiry by the Prices Justification Tribunal into the pricing policy of the firm concerned. The honourable member will be aware that on 3 November 1978 the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs announced that the Prices Justification Tribunal had been asked to conduct an examination into the prices of processed foods. This enquiry is now proceeding. In announcing the enquiry, the Minister noted that, should it be felt necessary to do so, a separate public enquiry could be instituted into any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
-Since August 1976 all elections for management positions in federally registered organisations have had to be by secret postal ballot. The number of organisations choosing to have their elections conducted under section 170 of the Act- that is, by the Australian Electoral Office or the Industrial Registrar- during the first two years of operation of this legislation, has increased by approximately 89 per cent. That is a very dramatic increase. There has also been a very substantial increase in the number of organisations, particularly of employees, choosing to have their elections conducted by that means. It is also open to an organisation, at its own expense, to have elections conducted under exactly the same set of regulations applying to secret postal ballots. That in itself has resulted in a greater degree of participation by union members in the affairs of their organisation. This Government encourages people to join the industrial organisation which can represent their interests and, having joined it, to participate actively in the affairs of that organisation. The secret postal ballot legislation is undoubtedly contributing to the achievement of that objective. 
-The parallel jurisdictions of the Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the New South Wales Industrial Commission have caused difficulties for some years in the New South Wales oil industry. There has been a complete refusal of oil industry employees at the Kurnell refineries of Caltex and Total to recognise federal jurisdiction. Those men are members of the New South Wales State branch of the Australian Workers Union, which operates separately from the federal Australian Workers Union which covers the rest of the industry in New South Wales. 
Last November the oil companies succeeded in obtaining an order from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission restraining the New South Wales Industrial Commission from arbitrating on awards and terms and conditions of employment at Kurnell. The refinery operators, members of the State AWU, refused to accept this decision and sought, before a full bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, to set aside or suspend the federal award. In this they were supported by the New South Wales Government. The application for these men to be covered by a State award instead of the federal award which now applies was unanimously rejected by a full bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 14 May 1979. The Federal Government intervened in that case and argued that the men should continue to be covered by a federal award. It is important to note that we were supported in that argument by the federal Australian Workers Union, the federal Storemen and Packers Union and the federal Transport Workers Union. The central theme of all the submissions was that an industry of great national importance such as the oil industry should be covered by a national- that is, a federal- award. 
I understand that the  President  of the Industrial Commission of New South Wales has written to the  President  of the federal Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and indicated that he does not believe that anything more can be done in the State jurisdiction. Therefore, the State branch of the AWU, because of its completely irresponsible attitude, is now totally isolated. In these circumstances the New South Wales Government has a very clear obligation to convince the men at Kurnell that they should be covered by a federal award and permit the work of the Moore conference to proceed. I remind the House that a working party was established last year under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Moore and comprising representatives of industry, employees, employers and the Labor Council of New South Wales to try to achieve a responsible approach to industrial relations in this vexed industry. That working party should be allowed to get on with its job. 
Pursuant to section 125 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904, as existing prior to the amendment of that Act in 1977, 1 present the report of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate for the period 1 July 1977 to 28 February 1978. 
Pursuant to section 126R of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904 I present the annual report of the Industrial Relations Bureau for the period 3 October 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
It really was an extraordinary speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  It was all over the place. Anybody who listened to the latter part of the speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition must have thought that to make a profit was a crime. I merely draw his attention to the fact that companies that do not make profits do not employ people. It is as simple as that. Yet to listen to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition it is apparent that he is quite happy for companies to go broke and for people who were employed by those companies to be without a job. But I do not want to waste time on that irrelevant part of the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition because that has nothing to do with the real world. 
But I do want to refer briefly to his reference to the Kane case. He seems as indeed does the Opposition, to be obsessed with the Kane case and I really cannot understand why. Certainly it was an interesting case and it does have implications for both employers and employees and the rights of the individual. But clearly from what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said today he is not interested in that. It is also apparent that he does not know what the Kane case is all about. Apparently the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition thinks it has something to do with section 144A, conscientious objection. 
-That is what the honourable member was talking about. 
You were talking about certificates of conscientious objection in relation to the Kane case. 
-Of course the Kane case has nothing to do with section 144A. 
It has to do with section 5 and section 1 88, and that is the right of an individual not to join in industrial action and the protection of an individual who makes that choice. Clearly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition does not know what the case is all about. He also does not realise that insofar as the Industrial Relations Bureau is concerned, the Kane case and cases of a similar kind are merely a minute part of the operations of the Bureau which, as the  Deputy  Leader does know, I am sure, took over the functions of the old arbitration inspectorate. I refer the  Deputy  Leader and the House to some of the statistics in the annual report which by coincidence, was tabled today. Certainly it has not been possible to differentiate between inspections in the period in which the arbitration inspectorate operated for part of the year and when the Bureau operated for the rest of the year. It has not been possible to separate those statistics into those inspections carried out by the respective organisations. But I draw the attention of the House to Appendix D of the annual report. Appendix D shows that the amount recovered by the combined activities of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate and the Industrial Relations Bureau on behalf of employees- the amount voluntarily paid- in respect of wages due and so on was over $lm. Does the fact that that amount of money has been recovered on behalf of employees not mean anything to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition? 
I draw attention also to Appendix F which sets out the statistics on complaints re awards. It shows that something like 4,200 complaints have been received. Dealing with these complaints constitutes the great mass of the Bureau's work. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would know, the Bureau's work is primarily concerned with protecting the rights of individuals and protecting the status and rights of organisations where such rights and status are infringed. It is an entirely proper function and one which has been carried out every day in hundreds and hundreds of cases. Yet the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in particular seem to concentrate on only one tiny aspect of the Bureau's work. 
Leaving aside the Kane case, I refer to the many Acts relating to industrial relations, and relating to industrial relations in a constructive way, that this Government has put through the Parliament. I refer to the secret postal ballot legislation and also the fact that that legislation encompasses adequate notice of forthcoming elections. I have referred already to the protection of the rights of individuals. We have established, by statute, the National Labor Consultative Council. We have also established that secondary boycotts imposed by unions will draw the same kinds of penalties as secondary boycotts which are imposed by companies. I fail to see why that should not be so, despite what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said. 
It is interesting to contrast this constructive approach with the record of the Opposition when it was in government. Its approach was to do absolutely nothing. In fact the Labor Government's approach was a minus because it took away some of the consultative processes which had been the norm under the previous LiberalNational Country Party Government. For example, during the whole of the three years of the Labor Government's term of office, there was no formal tripartite machinery for discussion between government, employers and unions. The old National Labour Advisory Council as it then was ceased to meet after December 1972 and no formal machinery was established until this Government came back into office. We improved on the old arrangements by, as I mentioned a moment ago, establishing on a statutory basis, a National Labor Consultative Council. During the Labor Government's term of office, the rights of individuals were ignored and economic stability crumbled to meet the demands of the trade union movement. That policy cost Australia dearly. Between 1973 and 1975 the number of disputes increased sharply, indeed alarmingly. The number of working days lost rose dramatically and there was a high increase in the amount of wages lost due to industrial disruption. In 1974, over six million working days and $ 128m worth of wages were lost. 
Clearly there was a need for a whole range of legislation. The Labor Government had left a yawning gap in industrial relations and clearly that gap needed to be filled. But the Labor Party's anxiety to undo, according to the Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition, all that this Government has done to improve the standard of industrial relations, is quite clear evidence that the Labor Party would go back and do it all over again if it had the chance. I merely cite the figures again: Under the Labor Government, an average of 4.1 million working days were lost each year that Labor was in office as compared with 1.8 million working days lost each year under this Government, if that particular aberration, the Medibank strike, is excluded. 
Against that background, apparently all that the Opposition can propose is the repeal of the Government's industrial legislation. That negative approach is indicative of Labor's whole position in relation to industrial relations policy. Let us hear, for example, Labor's policy on wages. The fact that we hear so little from the Opposition on the need to control wage increases is clear evidence of its willingness to encourage that privileged group of people in secure employment to seek wage increases at the expense of the unemployed and those in less secure employment. We hear even less of the Opposition's attitude to irresponsible and unnecessary industrial disruption. But members of the Opposition are certainly experts in it, as their record in government proves. As I have said, we have done a great deal to improve the standard of industrial relations. We have emphasised continually that the use of negotiation, conciliation and the arbitral machinery is the proper and most effective way in which to resolve industrial disputes. Indeed, to a large extent that process has restored order to industrial relations, as the statistics prove. 
I mentioned earlier the establishment of a National Labour Consultative Council. It is a forum at the national level where governments, employers and unions can meet to discuss industrial matters of common concern. As I have already indicated to this House, the Government has always endeavoured to consult the Council on industrial legislation before it is introduced in this House, and I think it is evidence of the success of that policy that the legislation that has gone through that process is the better for it. That is a constructive way in which to approach this very complex and difficult policy area. We have encouraged individuals to join the relevant union which represents their interests and just as importantly, we have encouraged and enabled them to take a more active part in the affairs of that organisation. 
I should like to mention now some of the figures in relation to the secret postal ballot legislation that I mentioned earlier. That legislation came into operation in August 1976. As the 
House would know, the organisation concerned can elect to have the election conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office or the Industrial Registrar at no expense to that organisation or to conduct it itself. The number of ballots officially conducted has increased quite dramatically. From August 1976 to August 1977- the first year in which the legislation was enacted- there was a 33 per cent increase in the number of ballots officially conducted over the 12 months preceding the legislation. From August 1977 to August 1978- the second year of the legislation- there was a 42 per cent increase on the number of ballots officially conducted in the preceding 12 months making an 89 per cent increase over the two years. From August 1978 to February 1979, that sort of rate of increase was maintained. We have actively sought trade union involvement and participation in matters in which the unions have a direct concern. We have established, through my colleague, the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  a tripartite committee on worker participation. We have been active in consultation with unions on significant issues such as the training of our workforce and on uranium mining in Australia. We have also maintained the previous policy of consultation with the trade union movement in pre-Budget talks. In addition, another tripartite committee was formed out of the National Labour Consultative Council to examine the effect of a number of factors on employment, particularly in relation to young people. 
So the Government has put into practice all the legislation that has been required. The legislation constitutes the industrial relations policies developed when this Government was in Opposition. But the Government is not content merely to rest there. It will continue to develop industrial relations policy in response to changing needs and circumstances. As evidence of that, I draw attention to the establishment late last year of a specialist Department of Industrial Relations. That is a recognition of the fact that in these days industrial relations affect everybody in the community. I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that certainly all the problems cannot be solved by legislation. But the Government's job is to provide the proper institutional and legislative framework within which the parties to industrial relations can carry on their business. That framework, of course, will not be static. It has to change in response to changing circumstances, and that is what the Government has done. 
The Government will continue to change the institutional framework as necessary, but what is really required to achieve a long-term improvement in industrial relations is changed attitudes of mind, often in relation to long-held and firmly held beliefs. That, clearly, is not going to be an easy task. It is in everybody's interest- the community, government employers and employees, to recognise that we have common goals. That must be the long-term objective in industrial relations policy. I must say it has not been helped by the sort of diatribe we have heard from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition today. 
-The dispute to which the honourable gentleman referred in his question goes back some time. It involves a demand on management by certain people at the dockyard concerning the number of electricians to be on duty during various shifts, especially at times when overtime is worked. It is quite true that on 9 and 10 May, after discussions between the parties concerned, an agreement was reached that the number of electricians employed when overtime is worked would be determined by the management on the basis of need. On 23 May some painters and dockers employed at the Dockyard refused to work, following management decisions on this same subject. Therefore, they breached the agreement which had been reached a couple of weeks before. The men concerned were then placed on a 'no work as directed, no pay' basis. I understand that there was a mass meeting on the next day, that is 24 May, at which the men resolved to return to work but to accept no directions at all from management. I understand that some limited work is going on at the Dockyard as part of a union tactic to work in. But the men involved have been told that the entire staff of the Naval Dockyard has been placed on a 'no work as directed, no pay' basis. The issue involves the question of manning scales, which clearly is one for management prerogative. 
I have been informed that the company named by the honourable gentlemanPhilip Morris (Australia) Ltd- has been negotiating with the Federated Tobacco Workers Union for a productivity agreement which I understand is likely to involve shorter working hours. The information I have suggests that the union is seeking a 72 -hour fortnight in return for its members agreeing to operate certain machinery of the company on a continuous basis. The employees in this industry are covered by a determination of the State Wages Board system in Victoria. This determination provides for a 40-hour week in the industry. Certainly, on a prima facie basis, there seems to be some reason to believe that the negotiations could be outside the wage indexation guidelines. I am told that if an agreement is reached it is likely to be in the form of a private agreement between the company and the union which is not- I repeat not- registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
I have made it clear on many occasions that the Government's concern is to obtain and maintain adherence to the wage fixing principles of the Commission by all sections of the community, whether those negotiations are carried out within the jurisdiction of the Commission or outside it. I might say that I had occasion to write to this company about three years ago and bring to its attention the Government's concern about the responsibility that the Government felt the company had in the region of wage determination. A reduction in hours for the same wage has a similar effect to an increase in wages. If this case were in the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, it would be a matter for a full bench, going as it does to the question of standard hours of work. The Government cannot condone productivity bargaining packages which breach the guidelines and add to costs generally. If the reported negotiations resulted in such an agreement, the Government would have to consider the applicability of a Prices Justification Tribunal inquiry into the pricing structure of the company. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  (Quorum formed).  The purposes of the Bill are, Firstly, to enable the person constituting the Coal Industry Tribunal also to be appointed to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to the Industrial Commission of New South Wales. Secondly, provision is to be made for leave of absence entitlements of the Tribunal to be in accordance with an arrangement entered into between the GovernorGeneral and the Governor of New South Wales, in the same way as the Tribunal's salary is now specified in an arrangement. As the Act stands at present, if the Tribunal engages in paid employment outside the duties of the Tribunal or if he is absent from duty for 14 consecutive days or more than 28 days in any 12 months, other than on leave approved by the Governor-General or the Governor of New South Wales, he is deemed to have vacated office. 
It should be noted that the previous Coal Industry Tribunal,  Mr Justice  Gallagher, served as a judge of the New South Wales Industrial Commission from 1955 to 1957 and for many years from 1957 as a  deputy president  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The provisions enabling  Mr Justice  Gallagher's dual appointments were in the Coal Industry Act 1955 and the Coal Industry Act 1957 but those provisions referred specifically to Francis Heath Gallagher. The proposed dual appointment provisions will enable any occupier of the office of Coal Industry Tribunal also to hold office in either the Commonwealth or New South Wales industrial tribunals. The Coal Industry Act 1955 was repealed by the 1957 Act and the personal references to Francis Heath Gallagher in the 1957 Act are to be repealed by this amendment. There is no intention at present to appoint the present Tribunal,  Mr David  Duncan, to either the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the New South Wales Industrial Commission. This amendment simply enables such an appointment to be made in future. Should such an appointment be made, the Tribunal would be required to give priority to coal industry matters, as was the case with  Mr Justice  Gallagher. 
I referred earlier to the Tribunal being deemed to have vacated office if he is absent from duty for more than 14 consecutive days or more than 28 days in any 12 months except on leave granted by the Governor-General or the Governor of New South Wales. It is proposed to specify in an arrangement entered into between the Governor-General and the Governor of New South Wales that the Tribunal should have the same leave entitlements as an officer of the Australian Public Service. It should also be noted that the New South Wales Government has a Coal Industry Act in similar terms to the Commonwealth legislation and both governments have agreed not to take action, without the prior concurrence of the other, to repeal or amend any of the legislation covered by the agreement. This is in a preamble to the respective Acts. I can advise that the concurrence of the New South Wales Government has been obtained. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purposes of this Bill are to give effect to two machinery matters. The first amendment enables the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and the Secretary to his Department to be members of the National Labour Consultative Council. This arises from the creation in December last of the Department of Industrial Relations and the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. The second amendment provides for the name change in December 1977 of the peak employer group from the National Employers Policy Committee to the Confederation of Australian Industry, National Employers Industrial Council. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-The Government took the decision to alter the transitional arrangements for the investment allowance referred to by the honourable member from the 40 per cent phase to the 20 per cent phase as a means of ensuring that firms with investment actually in train are not laid open to industrial blackmail tactics. As the law stood, the 30 June cut-off date for the 40 per cent investment allowance put unions in a very strong bargaining position to hold businesses to ransom in the period immediately leading up to that date. As the law stood, if the plant in question was not fully installed and operating by 30 June the firms concerned would lose half of the 40 per cent investment allowance on the entire cost of the plant involved. Under such an arrangement it is easily understood that enormous costs may attach to a company which withstands union campaigns to gain wage concessions far beyond the wage fixation principles. This amendment is designed to take away that power and to assist employers in withstanding industrial pressures. Its purpose is to insure that wage increases, or shorter working hours are not conceded in what are very sensitive areas. Any such concessions would inevitably flow on with very damaging effects to employers and other industries at a time when maximum wage restraint is absolutely essential for the continued industrial pick up in Australia. This practical measure will enable firms to receive the higher allowance for expenditure incurred on plant ordered before 30 June 1978 and actually installed up to yesterday. 
I am aware of the critical situation which is developing in the vehicle industry in Australia as a result of action taken by unions at W. H. Wylie and Company Pty Ltd in Adelaide. In July members of the Australasian Society of Engineers banned overtime in pursuit of a $20 a week wage claim. That claim came before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which ruled that it was outside the wage fixation guidelines. The commissioner concerned recommended that the bans be lifted. On 8 August the company dismissed 10 employeesmembers of the ASE- for refusing to work reasonable overtime in accordance with the terms of the award. That was followed by strike action by the ASE and the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union and also the establishment of a picket line. In combination those actions have drastically affected the delivery of essential components to other vehicle manufacturers in Australia. Subsequent hearings have failed to resolve this dispute. I am informed that as a result the major vehicle manufacturers in Australia very shortly, perhaps as early as tomorrow, will be forced to stand down employees due to not getting essential components from Wylie 's. These stand downs could be quite massive, and could involve Chrysler Australia Ltd in the honourable gentleman's electorate. This dispute highlights the selfish attitude of some unionists in pursuing excessive wage claims irrespective of what happens to their fellow workers. I am informed that the company has been prepared to discuss the issue at all times, provided of course that the picket line is removed. I believe that is an entirely proper attitude. 
in reply- In the few minutes before the sitting is suspended for dinner I would like to make a couple of points. I thank those honourable members who have taken part in the debate. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  spent a good deal of his speech talking about issues which I think were not strictly relevant to the Bill but as you allowed him a fair amount of latitude,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope that you will allow me the same indulgence in replying to one point in particular that he raised. It related to Public Service legislation, the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Act. The honourable member referred to provisions which, in his terminology, allowed management to sack people and the undesirable effects that could flow from that. I would like to point out that Public Service legislation has given management that power for a great many years now. The new Act provides appeal machinery which is not available under the present legislation. 
The honourable gentleman also referred to wages policy. I was interested to note that now the Australian Labor Party formally opposes the Government's wages package. I believe that this was a test of the Opposition 's sincerity in relation to recent statements that we have heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other ALP spokesmen on the need for a sensible wages policy. But what we have heard today makes it quite apparent that those statements were mere window dressing. The Labor Party is not really interested in a constructive approach to what is one of our major economic issues. 
-That is quite right. The honourable member for Port Adelaide referred to the importance of the National Labour Consultative Council, as did my colleague, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  and I thank him for the remarks he made on the establishment of the NLCC. As the honourable member for Wilmot rightly pointed out, if the Council is to play its full role, the members of it need to attend to put their point of view. I personally greatly regret the decision of the union movement not to participate in the last meeting of the NLCC. I hope that this absence is a temporary one. In the meantime, there is not much point in the Opposition or the union movement talking about lack of consultation when they have decided not to attend the very body, the National Labour Consultative Council, established for that very purpose. 
Finally, I turn to the comments of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  Listening to the honourable member for Burke, one might be forgiven for thinking that the union movement as a whole had nothing at all to do with any form of industrial disruption. I will leave it to the honourable member for Burke to try to sell that idea to the Australian public. The honourable member also alleged that the Government had instigated industrial disruption in this country. For the benefit of the honourable member for Burke and of the House I would like to cite some fairly simple statistics. They are these: During the three years of the Labor Government an average of 4. 1 million man days per year were lost through industrial disruption. During the full three completed years of this Government, the average figure was 1.8 million man days lost if the one day aberration of the Medibank strike is excluded and just over 2 million man days lost if the Medibank strike is included. But, in either case, the number of man days lost per year under this Government is less than half the number lost under the Labor Government. Really, this makes nonsense of the arguments advanced by the honourable member for Burke. 
I believe that the Bill before the House will improve the National Labour Consultative Council. It will give it a broader base. I believe that as both sides of the House support the concept of the Council this Bill will result in that body being able to do its job better. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The principal and most recent source for information on absences from work of males and females for sickness and injury in Australia is a publication of the Australian Bureau of Statistics entitled Australian Health Survey 1977-78 (Catalogue No. 43 1 1.0). 
Additional information on absences from work due to sickness or injury is contained in various issues of a publication of the Department of Productivity entitled 'Work and People' and its forerunner the Personnel Practice Bulletin. I would refer the honourable member particularly to the following issues: 'Work and People', Winter 1977, volume 3 No. 2; 'Work and People', Autumn 1976 volume 2 No. 1; Work and People', Spring 1975 volume 1 No. 3; 'Personnel Practice Bulletin' volume 30 No. 4, December 1974; 'Personnel Practice Bulletin ' volume 30 No. 1 , March 1 974. 
Regarding the collection of information specifically pertaining to workers' compensation matters, I would refer the honourable member to the comprehensive answer given by my colleague the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 638,  Hansard,  6 April 1 978, page 1 20 1 . 
With respect to the taking of maternity and paternity leave I wish to advise that I am not aware of national figures having been taken out on these particular types of leave. However, I am able to advise the honourable member that statistical information on the taking and duration of maternity leave and the taking of paternity leave by employees in Commonwealth Government Departments for each financial year since 1 973-74, is maintained by the Australian Public Service Board. In this connection I should point out that an answer to Question No. 3964 of 22 May 1979, which covers matters which are the subject of the honourable member's question, is presently in preparation. (5)I will provide the honourable member with copies of the publications referred to in ( 1 ) and (2) above. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Tripartite Mission to study the training of skilled workers in the metal and electrical trades in Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and the Philippines. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Trade Union Training Authority Act 1975 and section 25 (2) of the Trade Union Training Authority Amendment Act 1 978 1 present the report of the Australian Trade Union Training 
Authority for the period 1 July 1977 to 31 July 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) It would not, I am informed, be true to say that the bulk milk carters of Victoria had no say in the decision to refuse to collect milk from dairy farms from 30 March to 2 April 1 979. 1 understand that the very costly strike to which the honourable member refers resulted from decisions taken at various meetings of milk carters. 
I am also informed that the decision to return to work was taken in accordance with resolutions passed at various meetings of the striking milk carters. 
In view of the answers to Questions (1) and (2) no answer to Question ( 3 ) is required. 
Having replied specifically to each of the questions raised I must say how much I deplore the actions of these employees. Although I have said that the decisions referred to in the honourable member's questions were taken at meetings of the employees concerned, the results of the votes taken at those meetings did not necessarily represent the wishes of the majority of the TWU membership concerned. The whole episode points up the responsibility of the individual to the community in which he lives and the particular responsibility of unionists in vital industries to make every effort to attend meetings of this nature. In this way the true will of the rank and file will be expressed. 
The honourable member would be well aware that I have long held the view that the appropriate forum for the settlement of disputes is the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I am aware of the intolerable situation at Kurnell. The House will be aware that over recent years the operators there have continued to resist being covered by Federal awards in their area of work. There was a crippling strike there in June which also involved operators at the Total refinery at Matraville. Arrangements worked out before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to end that strike in June involved a three-month cooling-off period during which the Federal awards would be suspended and the terms of the Federal awards would be applied under orders issued by the New South Wales Government under that State 's Energy Authority Act. The operators ' acceptance of these arrangements in turn involved an undertaking to resume normal work. I have to tell the House that that has never happened. At no stage has normal work been resumed. A series of bans and limitations is still in force. Caltex has informed me that if these bans were not in force an extra 640,000 litres per day of products would be available from existing resources. That daily loss of production clearly makes nonsense of any claims that normal work is being done. 
It is clear that the operators have repudiated the arrangements entered into in June. At no stage have they even made any attempt to act reasonably. They have rejected all efforts to seek co-operation. Their attitude has been utterly irresponsible and cannot be supported or condoned by anybody involved in the conduct of industrial relations. As I said a minute ago, under the present arrangements the operators are working under the New South Wales Energy Authority Act. The New South Wales Government has authority under that Act to direct that all bans be lifted. Indeed, under the June arrangements, it has a clear responsibility to do so. It wanted the settlement to include the use of its Act. It is up to that Government to use it to get bans and limitations lifted. I make it quite clear that any shortages which might emerge as a result of these bans being in force are clearly the responsibility of the New South Wales Government. I understand that the Prime Minister will be raising these issues immediately with the New South Wales Premier. 
-Of course I have seen references, as I am sure every member of this House has, to the wages policy coming from the Australian Council of Trade Union Congress which is currently being held in Melbourne. What seems to be emerging re-emphasises the problem identified by the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission when in handing down its latest decision it referred to one side wanting indexation without restraint. What the ACTU policy means and spells out- the ACTU is not keeping it secret- is that in addition to national wage case increases, the union movement must have complete freedom to negotiate whatever it can over and above those increases. As we well know, all too often 'negotiation' is a euphemism for 'extort by industrial blackmail'. 
I remind the House of what the Commission said when the indexation package was introduced. It said that the Austraiian economy just could not afford increases over and above that. But the ACTU wages policy does not even stop there. I notice the latest thing is that the 
ACTU wants national productivity increases for the last six years to be added to current wage claims. The ACTU wages policy is now exposed as the most selfish ever put forward by an organisation in this country. It completely ignores the interests of those in less secure employment and completely ignores the interests of the unemployed. If it ever came to pass the inevitable, inescapable result must be fewer jobs. I reiterate that this represents a new peak in selfishness, and the people responsible for it will be judged accordingly by the Australian community. 
-I have seen reports of an address which shortly preceded the cruelly selfish Australian Council of Trade Unions wages policy to which I referred a moment or two ago. I find it incredible that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions should direct the trade union movement to ignore the proper industrial relations processes. By advocating this policy,  Mr Hawke  has grossly misused, for political purposes, his own position as leader of the Australian trade union movement. What in fact has happened is that the  President  of the ACTU has threatened the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the business community and the public that unless trade union demands are met industrial disruption will be used and, indeed, encouraged to damage our economy. The people who would suffer most from this damage are the unemployed. Once again, the trade union movement has made it quite clear that it offers nothing to the unemployed. In fact, it offers them less than nothing. What, in effect,  Mr Hawke  and trade union leaders have done is to tell members of the trade union movement that lining their own pockets comes before the interests of the community and of the unemployed. Any pretence to reason or responsibility has been thrown aside. 
I notice that  Mr Hawke  has also said that while, in his words, the unions have offered consultation, the Government has offered nothing but confrontation. I make the point that such allegations are totally and demonstrably untrue. Since this Government came to power we have established on a statutory basis, the National Labour Consultative Council. By an interesting contrast, the Labor Party when in power never even called together what was then the National Labour Advisory Council. I would be more impressed with  Mr Hawke  's allegations about lack of consultation if the union movement had not twice walked out from the body established to provide the proper processes for consultation. The fact is that the ACTU has now demonstrably embarked on a policy of confrontation not just with the Government but also with the Australian community. In this respect it has far overstepped the mark. The direction to the unions to increase industrial disruption shows just how far the leadership of the trade union movement is from community thinking. As far as the trade unions are concerned, wage increases are apparently to come before economic recovery, the interests of the unemployed and the commercial and social life of this nation. If that is not a policy of confrontation, I do not know what is. 
by leave- The major challenge taken up by this Government has been to get Australia out of the economic and industrial morass into which it was thrown by the Labor Government. We have acted in the conviction that Australia 's problems will not just disappear or be overcome by policies which place short term political popularity first. As a direct result, the Australian economy has been improving for some time now. But we recognise that, in a democracy, the ability of any government to shape the directions of the economy is limited by the attitudes and actions of the individual groups within it. Nowhere is this more apparent than in industrial relations. 
Under the Labor Government, industrial relations became the battleground for social and economic conflict. That Government was an active participant in dividing the community as it encouraged trade unions to pursue massive wage increases often through industrial action. Evidence of the damage caused to our industries and to the economy is still apparent despite the fact that under this Government there has been a marked improvement in the standard of industrial relations. In 1975, the Liberal-National Country parties recognised that restoring order to industrial relations was inseparable from responsible economic management. When elected, the new Government immediately set about reestablishing the authority of the conciliation and arbitration system and adapting the industrial relations framework to meet the needs of the parties involved and the community. 
To do this the Government set in train a number of specific policies. Secret postal ballots for all elections for management positions in federally registered organisations were introduced, and provision was made for members of these organisations to receive adequate notice of forthcoming elections. The rights of individuals in industrial relations have been protected. Employers have been given redress against employee secondary boycotts similar to that against boycotts organised by other companies. The Industrial Relations Bureau has been established. The Government has enacted legislation so that it, as a major employer, can meet its industrial relations responsibilities. The National Labour Consultative Council has been established as a fundamental part of the Government 's policy of encouraging effective consultation and communication between government, employers and trade unions. 
All of the Government's initiatives have been designed to provide the framework for the orderly conduct of industrial relations. It is up to employers and employees to use that framework to prevent the serious inconvenience and hardship that results from industrial disruption. While employers and unions have their responsibilities, the Government recognises that it has its own responsibility to protect the public interest. We make no apology for taking a firm stand when the community is threatened with industrial disruption resulting from campaigns designed to intimidate employers or arbitral authorities. The Government's policy in relation to these circumstances has been made clear and it will be continued. 
Through these policies and its legislation, the Government has done a great deal to improve the standard of industrial relations. Our efforts have had considerable success. Since 1975, there has been a declining trend in the number of disputes and working days lost. During the time of the Labor Government, an average of 4.1 million man days were lost per year. The average for the three years 1 976 to 1 978 was 1 .8 million if the Medibank aberration is excluded and 2.1 million if it is included. However, it is very disturbing that the latest available information indicates that this decline has been reversed, and disputes are increasing. 
At this time, when the trend is towards increased industrial unrest, we would do well to remind ourselves that there is a quite contrary view of the sorts of policies a government should pursue in industrial relations. The most recent, and most important, expression of that view is the policies endorsed by the Australian Labor Party at its 1 979 Conference. 
As will become clear, the basic proposition which runs through the Labor Party's platform is that the trade unions should be placed virtually above and beyond the law. This horse and buggy attitude owes its origins to the character of our industrial relations over 70 years ago. From its beginnings, one of the principal aims of conciliation and arbitration was to legitimise the role of trade unions. Consequently, the trade unions were given certain privileges under the law which carried with them specific responsibilities. It is generally accepted that the trade union movement is now in a position to exercise more power than at any other point in its history. The Labor Party, by persisting with the archaic belief that trade unions should still be granted extraordinary additional privileges, has isolated itself from the views of the community, including a large proportion of trade union members. 
At its Adelaide Conference, the Labor Party committed an ALP Government to repeal immediately 'all penalties for strikes against arbitral decisions of the Commission or a conciliation committee and the prohibition of action by the Commission to insert or register clauses in awards or agreements excluding the rights of workers to resort to industrial action*. The 1977 Labor Party platform called for the repeal of penalties for employer lockouts as well. The pretence to even-handed ness was thrown out the window in Adelaide. The words 'and lockouts' were taken out, meaning that while unions would be free to engage in strike action without penalty, employers would be penalised for retaliating by engaging in a lockout. 
Very significantly, the Labor Party's policy goes beyond unions taking action simply over pay and conditions. An ALP government would recognise that the legitimate role of the trade unions is not limited to legally defined industrial matters'. Labor has clearly endorsed political strikes in adopting this plank, and has indicated its contempt for the democratic parliamentary process. Labor does not accept Parliament as the proper place for voicing its concerns and opinions, but has deferred to the unions in acknowledging that they can strike on any issue at all and force their views on the Australian public. The plank is a direct threat to democracy. The Labor Party has also given a commitment to recognise 'the rights of unions to regulate their own affairs in a democratic way free from Government and judicial interference'. While the Labor Party mouths platitudes about democracy in trade unions, it has denied an ALP government any way of putting it into practice. 
A further example of the Labor Party's hands off attitude to trade unions is its policy to 'encourage the membership of registered organisations through the provision of preference to unionists in the taking of leave and ... in their engagement and promotion and their retention in cases of retrenchment'. Under a Labor Government, unions would be positively encouraged to trample over the rights of individual workers with a genuine conscientious objection to union membership or to engaging in industrial action. Furthermore, the Labor Party would exempt unions from the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. As a result, employers would no longer have redress against employee secondary boycotts similar to that against boycotts organised by other companies. 
There is a fundamental difference between this Government's industrial relations policies and those of the Labor Party. This Government believes that our system of industrial relations must work in the public interest. For this reason we recognise that government has a duty to establish an effective industrial relations framework within which labour and management can communicate and settle differences. That in turn means that certain rules have to be made and that they must be observed. Those rules must be designed with the aim of preserving a democratic society in which people can go about their legitimate business free from unwarranted interference. 
The Labor Party takes a different view. Its approach is to say that employers should be subject to regulation, but unions should not. To the 
Labor Party, unions should be free to take whatever action they choose on whatever issues they choose. The Labor Party would place unions above the laws everyone else is expected to observe. Its policies are a direct inducement to the trade unions to operate outside our system of conciliation and arbitration. As such, they are an affront to our democratic process and a deliberate attempt to undermine the effective functioning of our economy. The Government will have no part of policies which grant any section of the community extraordinary, unjustifiable privileges which can be used to deny others their legitimate rights. The basic objective of this Government has been and still is to restore order to industrial relations. Above all, that means the Government will continue to do all that it can to encourage the parties to work within the proper processes of conciliation and arbitration. 
Currently, the most important example is the Government's policy on the future of centralised wage fixation. In handing down its last national wage case decision, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission said that it had been brought to the brink of abandoning wage indexation. It said the actions and attitudes of various participants in the system were incompatible with its effective operation and the system was not working. The Commission commented further that the consensus on wage fixation had been weakened to a stage where it appeared 'that one side wants indexation without restraints and the other wants restraints without indexation '. 
In particular, the Commission stressed that a voluntary system of wage fixation must be based on consensus and that 'an equitable sharing of burdens and benefits should continue to be the dominant element of wage fixation'. To try to reestablish that consensus, the Commission called an urgent conference of all parties to consider whether centralised wage fixation had a future. Subsequently, all parties agreed that such a system was desirable and that each party should review its respective positions in the light of the Commission's statements. 
At the first hearing of the Wage Fixation Conference on 4 July 1979, the Commonwealth Government gave an undertaking that it would make a positive contribution towards reaching a consensus. At the first available opportunity, the Government met that undertaking. The Government's proposals require that two perfectly reasonable pre-conditions be met: First, there is a commitment from all parties not to pursue or grant wage claims outside the wage fixation principles and, secondly, a rejection of industrial action in support of such claims. In return, the 
Commission should award wage increases every six months for movements in the CPI discounted for increases due to Commonwealth Government policy decisions. 
At present the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission may be persuaded not to grant full indexation and there have been a number of decisions in which it has not done so. The uncertainty as to whether and to what extent employees will receive a wage increase has influenced some unions to take industrial action for wage increases outside the wage indexation guidelines. By providing certainty of adjustment, the Government's proposals would remove this pressure for industrial action. 
The Government has proposed that any wage adjustment in line with the CPI be discounted for the effects of Commonwealth government induced price increases. The Government believes that in cases where its policies involve a cost to the community, one section of the community should not be compensated leaving others to shoulder the entire burden. Of course, government induced price increases may not occur every six months. In these circumstances, provided the pre-conditions are met, employees would have the certainty of automatic full adjustment of wages for price increases. I remind the House that these pre-conditions are no wage increases outside the wage fixation principles and a rejection of industrial action in support of such claims. In addition, the Government's proposals recognise that claims for wage increases on legitimate work value grounds may continue to be heard but subject to rigorous examination and testing. No one who feels he has a genuine case can object to that. The Government has also proposed that as part of its package there should be no productivity hearing until at least October 1980 and that in any future hearing only the movement in productivity which occurred over the preceding 12 months should be considered. 
I have said that the Commission gave notice to the community that it was on the brink of abandoning indexation because of the attitudes of the various parties. The Commission called upon the parties to re-assess their attitudes. So far, only the Commonwealth has thoroughly reviewed its position and put forward a positive, constructive proposal. There is now a clear obligation on the other parties, having agreed that they want an orderly, centralised system of wage fixation to continue, to respond to the Commission's challenge. 
The reaction of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Australian Labor Party was to condemn the Government's proposals out of hand without attempting to give them any serious consideration. It is precisely this sort of unthinking pig-headedness, so apparent at the time of the attempted prices-wages freeze, which has led to the current difficulties in industrial relations. As the Commission has said, these attitudes must change if we are to return to a sensible equitable system of wage fixation. It would appear that neither the ACTU nor the Labor Party is interested in a return to such a situation- a situation which is clearly in the best interests of the vast majority of their members and of the community as a whole. 
The preposterous claims by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that the Government's proposals would result in employees receiving about 65 per cent of indexation is clear evidence that the Labor Party is not interested in reconsidering its own threadbare position orin making a positive contribution to the re-establishment of a consensus on wage fixation. Such statements are mischievous and misleading. Any reasonable estimate of the wage increases likely to flow from the Government's package shows that approximately 80 per cent indexation is the likely result over the life of the package. The Government is able to make this offer only because of the success of our policies in reducing inflation and improving our international competitiveness. 
The Government has taken the initiative to reestablish the basis for consensus between the parties involved in wage fixation. By contrast, the Labor Party is barren of ideas on this crucial issue. Nothing illustrates this more clearly than the policy endorsed by the Labor Party at its 1 979 Conference and I quote from it: 
With the understanding and co-operation of the trade union movement, 'Labor would' develop and implement a policy which will encompass prices, wage incomes, nonwage incomes, the social wage, taxation reform, and elimination of tax avoidance, and which will achieve a more equitable distribution of our national wealth and income, with the commitment to supporting the maintenance of real wages by quarterly adjustment and the passing on of the benefits of productivity. 
This was the issue on which the left wing of the Labor Party enjoyed its major victory and precipitated the rift between  Mr Hawke  and the Leader of the Opposition. The deep divisions it revealed in the Labor Party were widely reported and remain an explosive issue. Even the Premier of New South Wales, who is no stranger to hiding divisions, could find no better word to describe this policy than as a 'hotch potch'. The Leader of the Opposition, on the other hand, had to buy peace to stop the conference flying apart. For him, doing that presented a welcome bonus, an opportunity to disown and humiliate  Mr Hawke  and his economic committee. 
The only thing the Labor Party's wages policy commits it to is supporting wage increases. For instance, a Labor government would support reintroducing quarterly national wage case hearings. Employers would once again be faced with the instability and administrative costs that rapid wage increases bring. The effect would be to reduce business confidence and efficiency and the productive capacity of our industries. That means fewer jobs. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself, in moving to 6 monthly hearings, has acknowledged the unsettling effect of too frequent wage changes. 
A Labor government would support automatic full indexation with no discounting for CPI increases resulting from Commonwealth Government policy decisions. This is a discriminatory approach. Government policies which increase prices should apply equally throughout the community. Certainly that is the policy of this Government. However, the Labor Party would selectively discriminate between those whose incomes depend on decisions of the Commission and the rest of the community. Active discrimination in terms of compensation is not the only problem. Another problem is that by agreeing to wage increases to offset price increases flowing from government policies, a Labor government would deliberately undermine its own policieswould render them ineffective. This approach is all too reminiscent of the total confusion and lack of co-ordination which characterised the Whitlam Government. 
The Labor Party has been quite insistent on what minimum wage increases should be. At the other end of the scale it has nothing to say. When you wade through the verbal quagmire which passes for the Labor Party's incomes policy, it becomes quite apparent that while it is committed to supporting quarterly indexation of wages for the full CPI and for productivity increases, there is no intention of stopping there. This clearly is a minimum on which the unions with industrial muscle would be free to build to get even larger wage increases. 
It was this irresponsible attitude which gave the ACTU the green light to adopt what can be describes only as a cruelly selfish and destructive wages policy. According to the ACTU, employers and the Government should abide by decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, while unions should be free to pursue any wage claims they want, over and above increases awarded by the Commission. Furthermore, the ACTU has encouraged unions to threaten or use industrial disruption to line their own pockets. The central role played by  Mr Halfpenny  in having this policy adopted is highly significant. Nothing could illustrate more clearly the domination of the extreme Left, and their total unconcern for the effects of their policies on the economy and unemployment. The ACTU has caved in to the extremist just as the Labor Party did in Adelaide. 
The Labor Party and the ACTU now have virtually identical and equally disastrous wages policies- the Hayden-Halfpenny axis. 
In July this year, the Leader of the Opposition worked actively to have a policy endorsed which has, as its principal feature, a deliberate avoidance of any reference to wage restraint in any shape or form. Yet, on 18 February this year, he said: 'For their part, the unions must accept that the economy cannot bear unreasonable wage claims'. Quite clearly, when it comes to buying off the left wing of the Labor Party for the sake of his own political survival, the Leader of the Opposition can find no place for economic responsibility in his plans. 
This policy has taken the Labor Party far away from the views of the people whom it purports to represent. A survey conducted by McNair Anderson Associates Pty Ltd in May of this year showed that of the 800 members of the work force questioned, 59 per cent agreed that wage increases these days often means someone else loses a job and that two-thirds believed that wage increases would not really help. A similar survey conducted by the same organisation last year showed that 63 per cent of union members do not believe that union pressure for wage increases is supported by the rank and file. Interestingly, only 20 per cent of union leaders held the same views. 
It is quite obvious that the Labor Party has aligned itself with that element of the trade union leadership which is determined to push for huge increases in wages irrespective of the capacity of industry to pay. In short, nothing has changed. The Labor Party still refuses to acknowledge the well-established link between wage increases, higher rates of inflation and unemployment. The fact that there is no reference to this link is the most glaring omission in the Labor Party's so-called wages policy. The Labor Party is still not prepared to stand up to the irresponsible element in the trade union movement and argue for wage restraint and more jobs. The two are inseparable. Instead, it has now supinely added wages policy to its 'hands off the unions' list. 
This policy is similar to that followed by the Whitlam Government, a permissive industrial relations policy which saw a dramatic increase in industrial disruption, excessive wage increases, galloping inflation and the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. It must be recognised that the economic cost of the Labor Party's wages policy is measured not only in terms of wage increases but also includes of the cost of the increased industrial disruption and increased unemployment associated with the push for higher wages. The cost of disruption and loss of employment can be greater than the cost of wage increases themselves. Disputes destroy business confidence, upset planning and adversely affect a reputation overseas as a reliable supplier. The Labor Party's policy would not only condone industrial disputes; it would encourage them. As for prices, all we can find is a vague assertion that Labor's policy would 'encompass prices'- whatever that means. 
The Labor Party's deliberate neglect of the question of excessive wage increases betrays its lack of will to fight inflation. To the Labor Party, the problems inflation brings- lower business confidence, reduced capacity and fewer jobscan be overcome by government spending on a massive scale. Already Labor has admitted how it proposes to finance that spending- a massive increase in both public spending and the Budget deficit; 75c in the dollar tax on higher incomes; a resources tax in addition to existing company taxes, and an as yet undefined, so-called wealth tax. What sort of incentive does that provide for taking risks, for hard work, or for investment and expansion to create new jobs. In short, the Labor Party's incomes policy means no limit to wage increases and no limit to public spending and the deficit. 
However, the people of Australia will have none of it. The previous Labor Government's policies provided a dramatic demonstration that wage increases have a  cost.  That cost is reduced profitability, higher inflation and, inevitably, fewer jobs. 
However, there are some in the Labor Party who have to face reality. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who has the unenviable task of trying to explain the Labor Party's view of economic issues to the electorate, when referring to previous experience, was reported as admitting: 'Wage increases of a very large nature made it inevitable that there would be very large price increases following . . .' Yet, that is precisely what the Labor Party proposes to do all over again. 
The Labor Party may try to claim that if elected this policy gives it the opportunity to seek some kind of social contract with the trade unions. What kind of contract, and how large the wage increases would need to be to buy off the unions, are questions Labor is not particularly keen to answer at the moment, and of course, it cannot. The reason is that many in the Labor Party realise that their so-called social contract has absolutely no chance of success. The Labor Party's incomes and prices policy is not a policy at all. It is just a few lines of rhetoric designed to cloud the issues until the next election. It could not even cloud the issues for one day between the Leader of the Opposition and  Mr Hawke. 
This Government has emphasised time and again that industrial relations can make a positive contribution to economic recovery. We believe that if Government, employers and unions are willing to place the national interest first, there is no reason why all parties cannot cooperate to get the most out of what the Australian economy has to offer. Few, if any countries in the world have more to offer. However, the job is made much harder when proposals are put forward under the guise of alternative policies, which on analysis turn out to be nothing more than barrow-pushing for narrow sectional interests. I am convinced that the community recognises that and will see through the Labor Party's industrial relations and wages policies for what they are- just another repeat of the same old recipe for industrial disruption, inflation and the end of economic recovery. 
This Government has worked hard and successfully on behalf of the Australian community to reduce inflation, restore our competitiveness and create more jobs. Much has been done. But the Labor Party would throw it all away. Instead of building on the solid foundations laid down over the last four years Labor would set about undermining them. We will not let that happen, and neither will Australia. I present the following paper: 
Industrial Relations and Wages Policies- Ministerial Statement, 13 September 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which are designed to remedy deficiencies in the operation of the Act which have become evident in recent months. The amendments will: require a commissioner to consult with his  deputy president  before making or varying an award relating to wages and conditions; prohibit the Commission from ordering, recommending or sanctioning in any way, an employer paying wages to an employee for time when the employee was engaged in industrial action; provide for the expeditious hearing of stand-down applications, either before a single member of the Commission or a full bench; provide that the question of whether an industrial dispute exists may be the subject of a reference to a full bench; enable an industrial dispute or part of an industrial dispute to be referred to a full bench at the conciliation state; reinforce the powers of the  President  of the Commission by enabling him to withdraw a matter from another member of the Commission and either deal with it himself or refer the matter in a full bench; and provide increased protection for the community by creating an alternative path to the deregistration of organisations and thereby remove delays in the deregistration process in cases where the safety, health or welfare of the community are put at risk by industrial action. 
Consultation with the National Labour Consultative Council 
Before dealing more fully with the substance of the proposed amendments, I want to refer to the process of consultation in the National Labour Consultative Council. The Government established the National Labour Consultative Council by statute in 1977 as a continuing, tripartite consultative body. As a general practice, proposals involving industrial relations and manpower issues, including possible legislation, are submitted to the Council for discussion and expression of views for Government's consideration. The Government's initial proposals about the particular issues dealt with in the Bill before the House were discussed by the NLCC at its 1 2th meeting on 6 August this year. 
Representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations did not attend that meeting. Both organisations had formally advised me that their executives had jointly resolved on 16 July not to participate in NLCC discussions pending resolution of certain matters. 
I wrote to both organisations on 26 July, stressing the importance the Government placed on the role of the Council. I received no response to these letters prior to 6 August meeting of the NLCC. I might add that I subsequently received replies in late August and early September advising that both organisations were prepared to resume their participation in NLCC discussions subject to certain conditions. I replied to their letters on 7 September and I hope to see both organisations resume their participation in Council. 
The Council regretted the absence of union representatives at the 6 August meeting. Nevertheless, the Council felt obliged to carry out its statutory functions. As on previous occasions, the Government, in finalising its proposed legislation, has given careful consideration to the points raised in the Council's discussions. 
Requirement of Consultation by Commissioners 
The Bill proposes that a commissioner be required to consult with his deputy president before making or varying an award with respect to wages and conditions. There is a complex range of awards and registered agreements operating in industries coming within the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This very fact demands consistency of principle in decision making within the Commission itself. Regrettably there have been some occasions when such consistency has been lacking. The consequences for the community have been very serious, both industrially and economically. The proposed consultative process is designed to provide greater co-ordination and consistency in decision making within the Commission. 
Powers of the Commission in Relation to Payments to Workers for time lost through industrial action 
I turn next to the proposal to limit the powers of the Commission in relation to payments to workers for time lost through industrial action. 
At present the Commission may provide for payment to employees in respect of time not worked because they were engaged in industrial action. This is undesirable by any standards. Not only does it encourage irresponsible industrial action, but also it forces the employer to pay for the very disruption that puts his business at risk and damages the economic and social life of the community. It is an outlandish concept and indeed makes a mockery of any supposed 'right to strike'. This legislation now makes it quite clear that the Commission will not be able to award, or in any way sanction, payment for time lost through industrial action. Accordingly the Bill proposes an amendment to the Act to provide that the Commission is not empowered to make an award, certify a memorandum of agreement, make a recommendation or take any other action, whether by way of conciliation or arbitration, in respect of a claim for the making of a payment to employees in respect of a period during which those employees were engaged in industrial action. 
Stand-down applications 
The Bill proposes amendments to require the Commission to deal expeditiously with standdown applications. A stand-down clause is one that authorises an employer not to pay some or all of his employees in specified circumstances, for example, where they cannot be usefully employed because of a breakdown of machinery or industrial action by other employees. Applications for stand-down clauses are usually dealt with by a Commissioner or  Deputy President.  There are 3 main reasons why the Government is proposing these amendments to speed up the process for consideration of stand-down clauses in awards. Firstly, the harmful effects of industrial action on any enterprise are often serious, and they can be disastrous in the case of small employers. There is little they can do to protect themselves. Employers should not be required to carry' employees for whom there is no work because of the industrial action of other employees. Secondly, stand-down clauses protect employees from being sacked- they enable the employer to avoid the need to dismiss employees for whom no work is available as a result of industrial action by others. Thirdly, provision for prompt access by employers to the Commission in applications for stand-down clauses should encourage unionists generally to exert a moderating influence on particular union members and officers who are quick to call strikes rather than use the processes of conciliation and arbitration. A decision to take industrial action all too often gravely affects innocent people not directly involved. Any person considering industrial action should be sensitive to the possible consequences of that action for his fellow workers and for the well-being of the community. 
References to a Full Bench 
I now turn to the proposed amendments which remedy deficiencies in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act inhibiting the referral of matters to a full bench of the Commission. Those deficiencies were highlighted during proceedings in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission concerning a claim by the Australian Telecommunication Employees Association for a 20 per cent increase in all wage levels of ATEA members employed by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The Telecommunications Commission resisted the claim on the grounds that it conflicted with the principles governing wage indexation. ATEA members then imposed bans and limitations which caused the breakdown of the Australian Telecommunications system with very serious social and economic consequences. Because of the gravity of the situation, it was essential, in the public interest, that the matter be referred to a full bench. However, there were difficulties in getting such a reference. It is clearly unacceptable that the processes of the Commission for the proper settlement of industrial disputes should be frustrated because of procedural deficiencies. It is proposed to remedy those deficiencies by the following amendments to the Act: 
First, an amendment to provide that the question whether or not an industrial dispute exists may be the subject of a reference to a full bench of the Commission. 
Second, an amendment to enable an industrial dispute or part of an industrial dispute to be referred to a full bench at the conciliation stage. 
Third, an amendment to empower the  President  of the Commission to withdraw a matter from a member of the Commission and deal with it himself by conciliation and/or arbitration or refer it to a full bench. 
Cancellation of Registration 
For some time now the Government has recognised that in certain situations there is a need to provide an alternative to the form of deregistration processes presently available under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The need arises from the actions of a few pursuing selfish interests with reckless disregard for the community. Many unions, or sections of them, are strategically placed to interfere with the provisions of goods and services to the community. Indeed, they have used the vulnerability of the community to their disruptive tactics as a powerful industrial weapon, and even, on occasions, for blatantly political purposes. The Government does not believe that any member of our community, whether a direct participant in industrial relations or not, should have to put up with tactics which threaten their health, safety or welfare. 
We believe that it is proper for all organisations effectively to represent the legitimate interests of their members. But these organisations also have a responsibility to the community. It is an unfortunate fact that some of these organisations, or sections of them, have in the past ignored that responsibility and rejected the proper process for settling their disputes. I need only remind honourable members of the disruption caused by members of the Transport Workers Union in support of claims for wage increases under a number of awards. That disruption had a dramatic effect, for example, on the supply of milk and other vital foodstuffs. 
This Government is concerned about the rights of individuals. We have already acted to protect the rights of individuals in relation to industrial organisations. We will not stand by and watch while individual Australians are denied their right to obtain goods and services affecting their safety, health or welfare. 
Registration under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act confers very significant rights and privileges upon an organisation. It also carries with it obligations. The Government believes that the present deregistration provisions are not adequate to deal with the special circumstances where organisations, or sections of them, endanger the safety, health or welfare of Australian families. In this context, the existing grounds for deregistration do not sufficiently protect individuals or the public interest. Accordingly, this Bill proposes that another process of deregistration be provided which will be additional to the existing provisions. I will briefly deal with the main features of the proposed new provision. 
The Minister may apply to a full bench of the Commission for a declaration that industrial action by an organisation or a group of its members has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or a part of the community. At this point I ask honourable members to note that it is not any adverse effect due to industrial action that will make an organisation liable to deregistration by these processes; the adverse effect must be substantial. Moreover, the right to initiate proceedings is restricted to the Minister, and the decision as to whether the threshold test has been satisfied lies with a full bench of the Commission. 
Where the full bench makes a declaration the Governor-General may within 6 months direct the Registrar to cancel the organisation's registration or make orders suspending the rights, privileges or capacities of the organisation or giving directions as to the exercise of any of its rights, privileges or capacities or for restricting the use of its funds or property to ensure observance of the order. Cancellation of registration need not follow a declaration. If the organisation undertakes not to pursue the industrial action that might be the end of the matter. If it were to go back on its undertaking, deregistration could be directed at any time up to 6 months after the declaration by the full bench. After that time, of course, the Minister would need to obtain another declaration by a full bench. 
The orders that the Governor-General may make as an alternative to cancellation of registration are the same as those that may be made as an alternative to deregistration under the existing provision for cancellation of registration. Where such an order has been made it will remain open to the Governor-General, within the next 6 months, to direct that the organisation's registration be cancelled. I remind honourable members that the Acts Interpretation Act provides that a reference to the Governor-General in an Act shall, unless the contrary intention appears, be read as referring to the GovernorGeneral acting with the advice of the Executive Council, that is, with the advice of Ministers. No contrary intention is expressed in these amendments. Consequently, in exercising powers under the section, the Governor-General will act with the advice of the Executive Council. Finally, where the Governor-General has directed that an organisation's registration be cancelled, the organisation cannot be re-registered without the consent of the Governor-General. He may make his consent conditional upon the organisation complying with conditions he prescribes. 
These new provisions are designed specifically to protect the job security, safety, health or welfare of Australian men and women and their families. They would be used only where these rights, fundamental to any democracy, are threatened. If any group acts in a way which puts these rights at risk, then they cannot expect the community to continue granting them the privileges to which they would otherwise be entitled. 
When the basis of life is under attack, the public is entitled to expect its Government to protect its interests. Irresponsible behaviour endangering the very foundation of our society is, fortunately, uncommon. But it does occur and cannot be dealt with by the usual means. This proposed legislation recognises that fact, and will provide the Government with the necessary procedures to protect its citizens. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is basic to Australia's approach to the ratification of any ILO Convention, the subject matter of which is within the joint legislative competence of the Commonwealth, State and Territorial Parliaments, that the agreement of all relevant jurisdictions be obtained; and that it has been demonstrated that law and practice in all jurisdictions comply fully. 
The following table sets out details of the States which have agreed to ratification and in which it is clear that law and practice are in accordance with the requirements of the Conventions to which the honourable member has referred. 
I wish to reply to a couple of points in relation to the speeches that have just been made to the Committee. The first relates to the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He questioned the constitutionality of what this clause aims to do. I remind the Committee, as did the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, that the constitutional power given by section 51 placitum (xxxv.) is a power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. Judicial decisions in relation to the constitutional power are to the effect that the Commonwealth may not direct the Commission as to how it is to settle industrial disputes. This derives from the judgment of the High Court in R. v. Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission; ex parte Amalgamated Engineering Union in 1967. Although the propositions enunciated in that case have not subsequently been tested, it is significant that the High Court took the view that the legislature has power to make laws directing the Commission with respect to procedural matters- in that case, the constitution of the Commission in particular ways. The directions to the Commission in this legislation are also quite clearly procedural. I emphasise what has been said before but needs to be said again, that is, that the Commonwealth's legal advisers do not consider that the proposed amendments offend against the constitutional requirements. 
I now turn to the issue of consultation to which most honourable members on both sides of the Committee have referred. Clause 3 proposes the insertion of a provision to the effect that a commissioner shall, before making an award or certifying an agreement, consult with the appropriate presidential member. The main purpose of the amendment is to ensure consistency in the application of principles formulated within the Commission for the settlement of disputes. The proposed statutory requirement for consultation is clearly procedural in nature. No legislative controls are imposed over the manner of the exercise by a commissioner of his discretionary powers in relation to the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes. Nor is a commissioner- I emphasise this- subject to direction by a presidential member of the Commission. The requirement is merely that he consult with the presidential member before making a decision. The word 'consult' is by its very nature not a specific one but its meaning is evident. The definition of the word in the  Concise Oxford Dictionary  is to take counsel and to seek information or advice. 
It is clearly appropriate that the expertise, knowledge and experience of senior members of the Commission should be available to commissioners through such a consultative process. Some degree of consultation is already built into the procedures of the Commission by reason of the requirement that members of the Commission are assigned to panels and work closely with the presidential member in charge of each panel. That is not found to be objectionable but rather to enhance the work of the Commission. A more formal requirement for consultation will further enhance the work of the Commission by promoting a greater consistency in decision making and a greater acceptance of decisions by the parties. It would not be desirable to define too closely the manner in which the process of consultation should take place. What is an appropriate form of consultation may depend on the circumstances of the particular case. It is important that members of the Commission should have a discretion as to how they fulfil their obligation to consult. The requirement in the Bill is, as has been stated, a requirement merely of consultation. That requirement neither demands nor authorises the substitution of one decision for another. Decisions made as a result of the consultation process will continue to be decisions of the commissioner who heard the matter. The amendment will not thereby infringe the constitutional requirements. 
I emphasise again as there seems to have been some misunderstanding on this point that the requirement is one for consultation. The ultimate decision remains the responsibility of the commissioner himself. Finally, there have been allegations by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  that the requirement was offensive, and by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  that it would infringe natural justice. These honourable gentlemen apparently are completely unaware of the fact that similar provision has been part of the Public Service Arbitration Act for many years. This provision has worked to the satisfication of both the office of the Public Service Arbitrator and the people who come before him. There is absolutely no reason to suppose that the same degree of success- which for many years has attended this provision in the Public Service arbitration areashould not, with the explanation I have just given, operate in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Both the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  seemed to have a. pretty poor opinion about whether the  deputy  presidents and commissioners in the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will be able to conduct their affairs in a responsible manner. I see no reason to suppose that that should be so. Neither do I see any reason why the proposed amendment to the Act, which is now before the House, should interfere with that in any way. 
I take the point made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He made the point that only the Government supports this clause. He then said that neither employers nor unions support it. I reiterate the points which I made in my second reading speech, namely, that the opportunity was given to the union movement to come along and discuss these amendments with us. The unions did not take advantage of that opportunity. As a result of comments made and suggestions put forward in the National Labour Consultative Council changes were made to the Government's original proposals. As I have mentioned previously, the main objective of this particular amendment is to maintain consistency in wage fixing in the Commission. This view is one that is not necessarily always held by the parties to industrial relations. Those parties have their own interests to look after, and I understand that. They do not have the public interest as their main concern. 
I reiterate that the Government does have the public interest as its concern. The Government will always frame its legislation with that interest in mind, and it makes absolutely no apology for doing so. In this debate the Labor Party has made it quite clear that it does not care two hoots about the public interest. That is its outlook and it will be judged on that attitude accordingly. 
That is just another illustration of the very sharp differences between this Government and the Opposition in relation to industrial policy. 
I seek leave to move the third reading forthwith. 
-The first point that I make is that I did not release the so-called Staples statement. I regret that the matter has arisen at all. I would have preferred to be able to dignify this episode with no comment, but it has arisen. As I say, the statement was a letter which I understand  Mr Justice  Staples circulated to his Conciliation and Arbitration Commission colleagues. A copy was sent to my office without any comment by  His  Honour. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said, I have already indicated that I am astounded that such a statement or letter should have come from somebody with the title of judge. 
I do not consider anything said by  Mr Justice  Staples in his statement as warranting any reexamination of the legislation that the Government has before the Parliament. Experience has shown that there is a need for the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in the public interest, to take over any matter before the Commission and for there to be a capacity for all parties before the Commission, including the Minister, to request a Full Bench of the Commission to hear a matter at any stage when it is before the Commission. That was one of the matters referred to by  Mr Justice  Staples and the Government still believes that it is necessary. 
Let me put this matter into perspective. Following Press reports some months ago about possible amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act I received a request from the conciliation and arbitration commissioners to see me about the reported amendments. It was an unusual request but I agreed to see them. I said that certain amendments were being looked at and that their views put to me formally would be considered by me - 
No, this was some months ago. I said that their views would be considered as part of the Government's total consideration of the proposed legislation. I think it was last week that I received a brief telex from the commissioners on the Bill which is currently before the Senate. I would not be surprised if the members of the commissioners association are somewhat embarrassed or perturbed that their views have been caught up in the turn of events which was the subject of a previous question to me today. I make the point again that the telex from the commissioners and the views that they put to me earlier have been considered. No valid new point is raised in the views that they put forward which would lead the Government to make any amendments to the Bill that is now before the Senate. 
Of greatest concern to the commissioners is clearly the requirement in the legislation for them to consult with their deputy president- that is their panel leader- before handing down awards or certifying agreements. For some years now the Commission has been working on a system of panels. Each panel is under a deputy president who is responsible for a group of industries. The commissioners in turn are responsible to their deputy president. When those arrangements were introduced concern was expressed as to how they would work, but it is a matter of history now that they have worked quite well. I see no reason why the proposed amendments should not work equally well in due course. Clearly there will be differing views on legislation of all kinds brought before this House. The Government has considered the views put forward in this case; but Parliament makes the final decision and it is up to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and its members to operate within the legislative provisions which are determined by this Parliament. 
-As I have already indicated,  Mr Justice  Staples ' letter came to me merely with a 'with compliments' slip, without comment, after it had been distributed to all members of the Commission, as I now understand. Following that, and not my release, it became a document of public comment. As to the content of the telex from the commissioners to me, the normal method of communication between the Government and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is through the  President. 
I will check up on the question asked by the honourable gentleman and let him know. 
I refer to a question asked of me at Question Time today by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in which he asked whether any member of my staff made available copies of a statement by  Mr Justice  Staples dated 28 September 1979 concerning the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that were then before the House. I have ascertained that subsequent- I stress that word subsequent'- to that document being made a matter of public record, specifically on the ABC radio program  PM  on the evening of 1 1 October, a member of my staff made copies available to several members of the Press Gallery. I point out that this was some hours after the comments were made public. The initial release of this document was not made by my office but by persons unknown to me or to any person in my office. 
The Leader of the Opposition has represented the current amendments to the Act as giving the Government draconian powers. Of course that is completely untrue. All institutions require adaptation from time to time; circumstances change, and the legislative and institutional framework needs corresponding change to cope with those changed circumstances. 
The allegation was made also that the proposed amendments would damage the conciliation and arbitration system and its procedures. I emphasise that those particular amendments are designed specifically to maintain consistency in the Commission. I will be saying a little more about that later on. Those amendments are in response to needs which have emerged. The next allegation made was that  some of the proposed  amendments were unconstitutional. I emphasise again that the Government's advice is that the amendments are constitutional. The amendment which requires consultation between commissioners and their  deputy president  does not interfere with the commissioner's right to make a decision. If it did there might be some validity in the charge that the amendments were unconstitutional. All the amendment does is require consultation with the  deputy president  in charge of the panel to which the commissioner belongs. The final decision rests with the commissioner himself. There is" nothing unconstitutional in that. 
I turn now to what the Leader of the Opposition said about allegations regarding  Mr Justice  Staples' comments, namely, that there was an implied threat to  Mr Justice  Staples in my mentioning that I referred  His  Honour's letter to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for the Attorney-General's comment. In view of the questions raised about the constitutionality or otherwise of the amendments, naturally I wanted the Attorney-General to look specifically at the points raised by  Mr Justice  Staples. I have now received the Attorney-General's comments and he has reaffirmed the advice which I gave earlier and which he gave to me; that is, that there is nothing in  Mr Justice  Staples' comments in his letter which would lead the Attorney-General to change his advice to the Government that the amendments are in fact constitutional. Those are the principal issues raised by the Leader of the Opposition. 
It is apparent that in this debate the Opposition has set out to confuse and to attempt to hide the central issue. This debate is about one issue, and that is whether the Government has an obligation to improve the operation of the conciliation and arbitration system so that industrial disruption can be reduced and the community relieved of the inconvenience and damage that such disruption causes. The Government believes that it has such an obligation. As I mentioned a moment ago, if the Government is to undertake that obligation to the public interest, the system, the institutions and the legislative framework which lays down that obligation require change from time to time in the light of experience. That is why we propose to make certain amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. No amount of distortion or waffle from the Leader of the Opposition or anybody else can be allowed to obscure that central fact. At the Labor Party's conference in Adelaide its attitude to the responsibility of government to the community in regard to industrial relations was made clear. At that conference the Labor Party abrogated any responsibility of government; it said that unions should be able to conduct their affairs free of government or judicial interference. The Opposition has raised this matter in a futile attempt to hide its lack of genuine concern for the public in industrial relations. The public is our prime concern, and it will remain so. 
I turn to the matter which is of concern to the commissioners about the proposed amendment, namely that they must consult with their respective  deputy  presidents before making a variation to an award in respect of wages and conditions. As I have said, the main purpose of the amendment is to ensure consistency in the application of principles formulated within the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself for the settlement of disputes. I emphasise that in the past the vast majority of decisions made by the Commission have been consistent with the Commission's own guidelines. But there have been a few occasions on which decisions were given which could not in any way be described as consistent. As a result anomalies were created, expectations were raised among certain powerful unions and the community was forced to suffer a great deal from the industrial disruption which followed. This amendment is designed to provide greater consistency and thereby relieve the community from the serious harm that such disruption causes. That apparently is a matter of no concern to the Opposition. The commissioners have expressed their concern to me that in the proposed amendment they have to consult with their  deputy president. 
I come back to the constitutional issue that was raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I point out that the proposed requirement is procedural in nature. There are any number of cases which illustrate that as long as the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are procedural in nature, there is nothing unconstitutional in them because no legislative controls are imposed over how a commissioner may exercise his discretionary powers to prevent and settle industrial disputes. Nor will a commissioner be subject to direction by a presidenta member of the Commission. Consultation does not entail the substitution of one decision for another. I referred to that a moment ago. 
In answer to a question today I pointed out that members of the Commission are already assigned to panels. They work closely with a presidenta member and therefore some degree of consultation is already built into the Commission. Experience has shown that this consultation has enhanced the work of the Commission despite some initial reservations expressed at the time these panels were introduced about seven years ago. A more formal requirement of consultation would further develop the principle which has been established and enhance the work of the Commission by promoting greater consistency in decision-making. The panel system has proved its worth and there is nothing unique about the reservations the commissoners have raised in relation to the present proposed amendments. 
The requirement of consultation will enhance the integrity of any award which is made as the parties interests are considered and an equitable decision is made on the basis of existing principles used in other award determinations. I point out that a very similar provision has been part of the Public Service Arbitration Act for about seven years. It has worked to the satisfaction of both the office of Public Service Arbitrator and the people who come before him in his jurisdiction. The Government sees no reason why such consultation will not work just as well in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
One further point needs to be made. It is ridiculous for an Opposition in government virtually to abandon the use of formal consultation in industrial relations. It is nonsense for the Opposition to try to argue in this place that this Government is not prepared to consult. As usual we are prepared to consult on this proposed legislation. In answer to a question today I said that following Press reports about proposed amendments to the Act I received a request from the commissioners to see them. Although this was an unusual request in my experience, I agreed to meet them. At that meeting they put forward their views about possible amendments requiring consultation with deputy presidentstheir panel leaders- and references were made to Full Bench matters. I told the commissioners that when the Government was looking at amendments- the Government was doing so at that time- the matters which they put forward were considered as part of the total consideration which is normal in the formulation of any proposed legislation, particularly legislation affecting the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The latest representation from the commissioners- I have already mentioned this matter- raised no valid point that has not already been considered in the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill now before the Parliament. Consequently the Government sees no need to re-examine the legislation. I point out that the Government also sought to consult with national representatives of employers and trade unions on this proposed legislation. The members of the Opposition who make such a lot of noise about consultation might go back to their friends in the trade union movement and ask them what views they put when they had the opportunity. When they get nothing but silence, they might ask the trade unions why they did not put any views at all. The Government established the National Labour Consultative Council as a statutory body for precisely that purpose. As I said in my second reading speech, the amendments were scheduled to be discussed at the twelfth meeting of the Council on 6 August this year. The unions advised me that they would not be attending. I wrote back to the unions on 26 
July stressing the importance that the Government placed on the role of the Council; but for reasons of their own they declined to attend. 
I return to the point that I made a minute or two ago. The debate is really about what the aims of a responsible government should be in the conduct of industrial relations. We believe that those aims should be to establish a framework which meets the needs of all parties while at the same time protecting the interests of the community. We also believe that long term improvements to the standard of industrial relations must come from closer communication and consultation between employers and employees at all levels of our economy. We have moved vigorously and responsibly towards both of these aims. But, for its part, all the Opposition can contribute is a number of misleading statements designed to obscure the Government's objective and to hide its own irresponsible and discredited policies of 'hands off the unions' and the highest wages for those with the most muscle'. No amount of trying to obscure the real issues behind this legislation can hide that. Quite apart from the procedural amendments which I have described, another part of the legislationthis was referred to briefly by the Leader of the Opposition- provides for accelerated deregistration procedures for unions or sections of unions whose actions are substantially adversely affecting the safety, health or welfare of the community. The Government makes no apology whatsoever for taking what might normally be described as unusual procedures to deal with such situations. If people in the community see that their safety, health and welfare are being affected, they naturally expect their government to take action to protect them. It has been made clear here today that the Labor Party is not prepared to do that and, indeed, would vigorously oppose any action by the government to do that. We do not intend to drop our responsibilities so easily. We intend to go ahead with the proposed legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Administrative Services to Question on Notice No. 4299 (See  Hansard,  11 September 1979, page 972). 
Could I ask for your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to make a statement. I heard that there was some allegation that the  Hansard  greens had been altered in some way. I checked with the Principal Parliamentary Reporter. He has authorised me to say that any alterations to the greens of the questions or the debate on the matter of public importance were made by  Hansard  staff and were of an editorial nature only. 

 -Mr Speaker, I do not know whether the House appreciates that the Principal Parliamentary Reporter authorised me to say that any alterations to the greens of the questions or the debate on the matter of public importance were made by  Hansard  staff and were of an editorial nature only. My comment applied equally to the questions. 
I want to correct again a misunderstanding or misapprehension. The letter from  Mr Justice  Staples to members of the Commission- both the commissioners and  deputy  presidents, I believe- was a matter of public comment and record before any copies came from my office. 
Well, it was in the hands of the Australian Broadcasting Commission before that. 
I have just got some information and timing from my staff. The timetable is something like this: Public comment on the Staples letter was first made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission program PM at or about six minutes past six on 1 1 October. Following this, my office received numerous requests seeking confirmation that I had received the document and asking for copies of the document. After reading a transcript of the PM segment and after speaking to employees of the ABC  PM  program several hours later- I cannot give a precise time, but it was some time after 9 p.m.- a member of my staff made copies available to several members of the Press, particularly those who had been seeking information about the document. It is my staff's recollection and my recollection that I became aware of the distribution to these Press people following the review of the PM program and the talking by my staff to members of the PM program staff. 
I reiterate, because I think it needs to be said every time the allegation is made, that the original release of this document was not made by me. I would certainly not have released the document had it not already been released and had that release not been checked. I sought no evasion of the response to the Leader of the Opposition yesterday. As I said, I had no intention of making this document public until it had become public, because, as the honourable gentleman would appreciate, there is no mileage in  Mr Justice  Staples' letter so far as the Government is concerned. It is a matter of public knowledge that the contents of the letter are highly critical, in emotional terms, of much of the Government's legislation which has been through this House and which is now before the Senate. There is no advantage for this information to have been made available by the Government for that very reason, but when it had become a matter of public comment there was no point in pretending it did not exist. 
Yes. I quote from the full transcript of the item on  PM  on  Mr Justice  Staples' letter: 
In an extraordinary letter to his colleagues in the Arbitration Commission,  Mr Justice  Staples has condemned the Government's latest changes to the conciliation and arbitration system. 
The Judge's letter, a copy of which came into our hands today, follows criticism - 
I refer to a transcript of the  PM  program of 1 1 October which states specifically: 
The judge's letter, a copy of which came into our hands today . . . 
That was in the transcript. There was then some additional comment. Following that I asked my staff to confirm whether in fact that statement was true, whether in fact a copy of the judge's letter had come into the hands of  PM.  That was confirmed to a member of my staff. Further, it was confirmed that, that letter having come into their hands, they then wisely, I believe, sought to check its authenticity. They said that they had done that with someone who was close to  Mr Justice  Staples, and confirmed to my staff that the extract from the transcript- 'The judge's letter, a copy of which came into our hands today'was correct. 
As I have already explained to this House, following the  PM  program, which was the subject of the last question, I asked my staff to check whether it was correct that  PM  had a copy of the letter. They informed me that it was, as I also informed the House yesterday - 
Just a moment. Some time later that night- about 9 o'clock- I authorised the distribution of those comments by  Mr Justice  Staples. 
-There is confusion here-I come back to yesterday's  Hansard-  between approving of the distribution and becoming aware of the distribution. That is the matter that I would like to clear up now, if I may. I authorised this at about- I cannot be precise- 9 o'clock. I was then engaged in other business. A good deal later- I suspect it was probably after 10 o'clock- I became aware that the document had in fact been distributed. 
A short time ago I released a statement about my meeting with  Sir John  Moore last night, following his request to me for a meeting.  Sir John  is aware of the terms of that statement and he has confirmed - 
I might add that a short while ago the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions contacted me, seeking further consultations on the legislation before it is finally passed through the Parliament. I point out that the opportunity was given specifically to the ACTU to join in consultations about this legislation long before it came into this Parliament. I informed the  President  of the ACTU that the legislation would be going ahead. 
I repeat that there is a difference between the approval and the becoming aware. Yes, I did authorise it. I became aware later that in fact it had been distributed. 
When I answered the question last Tuesday I said that I would check the facts, which I have done. I have given the answer this morning on when I became aware: When I authorised the distribution of the document. 
It was a rather rambling question. As I understand it, the Leader of the Opposition was asking: Do the procedures which the Government intends to implement for the consultation processes take the conduct of business out of the hands of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? The answer is no. There are court cases on record which show quite clearly that procedural matters so far as the Commission is concerned are matters for the Government to determine, and that is what has been done in this case. 
Yes,  Sir John  Moore raised the question of possibly limiting the requirement to consult in relation to the possible delays which could result from the present procedures with the existing resources available to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I said that the prime requirement that the Government was facing in this legislation was to ensure that the maximum possible degree of consistency in principle was observed in the decision making process of the Commission. That was - 
I am aware of the severe disruption associated with the strike in Queensland. There are two particularly unfortunate aspects of this dispute. The first is that the claim for shorter working hours is already before the relevant tribunal, which in this case is the Queensland Industrial Commission. The intransigent attitude of the unions led the commissioner hearing the case to issue an order restraining them from taking any strike action. Nevertheless, the union officials went ahead and called this 48-hour strike. Once again we have witnessed unnecessary and damaging disruption when a claim is already being heard in the proper way. I understand that some $30m worth of production has been lost, some $ 10m in wages has been lost and thousands of workers were stood down with a resultant loss of pay. Virtually everybody in Queensland has been affected in one way or another by the strike. It is about time that the power workers involved had a bit more regard for their fellow Queenslanders. 
The second unfortunate aspect of the strike is that the causes of the dispute can be traced back directly to a decision by the New South Wales Government in awarding its power workers a 37%-hour week in March this year. At the time this award was made I said to the House that the effect of a 37Vi-hour week would inevitably increase the industrial pressures upon electricity supply authorities in Victoria, Tasmania, Queensland and Western Australia to make a similar concession on working hours. At the time that case was before the New South Wales Industrial Commission the Commonwealth Government sought leave to intervene and to oppose the introduction of shorter working hours. That application was refused. We made the application because we could foresee the pressures that would be generated for a flow-on and we could foresee the industrial disruption that would follow the claims for shorter working hours. In taking this action our prime concern was to protect the Australian public from the unnecessary and damaging disruption that we have just seen. Clearly, the New South Wales Government, in supporting its workers' claim earlier this year, must bear the major share of responsibility for bringing on this dispute. Its short-sighted attitude to industrial relations is now having precisely the very damaging effects which we on this side of the House knew it would have and did our best to prevent at the time. 
-The House will remember that this matter last came before a Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 4 October, when the Federal awards which covered the workers referred to by the honourable member were suspended to allow consultations to continue on the report of the joint working party which was established when the Federal awards were originally suspended in June this year. Together with the Government of New South Wales, we supported the application for a further extension of the suspension in the hope that the consultations could take place in a calm and stable environment. That suspension expires later this week, on 15 November, and a Full Bench will hear this matter later this afternoon- about 4.30, 1 expect- in Melbourne. 
This afternoon's hearing will determine an application by both the Commonwealth and New South Wales governments for a further extension of the suspension until 31 March next year so that the consultations which have already been started can be brought to a conclusion and so that a number of outstanding issues which have been raised during the talks can be clarified. I might say that these steps were agreed to at a meeting I had with the New South Wales Minister last week. We both agreed that significant progress had been made in this very complex question. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is being asked in those circumstances to allow further joint consultations to proceed. I understand that workers at the refineries have threatened to close them unless they are put back under a State award by 15 November, but I am hopeful that the joint application by the two governments later this afternoon will clear the way for these outstanding matters which are still unresolved to be dealt with speedily. We all have a responsibility to urge moderation and restraint in this very difficult case. 
With reference to the other part of the honourable member's question, I say that any allegations by  Mr Wran  or anybody else that the Federal Government has been slow in reaching a decision in this matter are absolutely without foundation. We have taken a very responsible attitude in this matter because we recognise that we have a wider responsibility than merely to the industry in New South Wales. The Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Federal unions have made extensive submissions to me in that regard, as well as the employers and the oil industry itself. Therefore, we have a responsibility to see that any legislation is effective in the longer term and in the national context. During the early periods of suspension the workers involved have been operating under the New South Wales Energy Authority Act. Under that Act the New South Wales Government has complete power to make any orders requiring the free flow of petrol. Of course, that situation will be maintained if the joint governments' application to have the suspension of the awards extended to 3 1 March is granted. Incidentally, that Act also gives the New South Wales Government the capacity to deal with local industrial relations issues at the site. 
-The Federal Government has indicated that it is ready to proceed immediately on joint discussions with the New South Wales Government and the parties to the industry to resolve this issue.  Mr Speaker,  I would like to read to the House a telex- it is very brief- that I sent to the New South Wales Minister,  Mr Hills,  last night. It states: . . 
I understand the application made by the Commonwealth seeking to provide for further suspension of Federal award for Caltex employees at Kurnell has been granted. 
As agreed I am willing to proceed with you to complete joint sitting arrangements. 
If you agree this can be put in hand immediately. 
I understand that the New South Wales Government is currently considering its position. But the fact is that both Governments favour the proposition of a joint sitting approach. The details and practical operation of such a system need to be worked out with the parties themselves. The Federal Government is responsible for ensuring that an effective arrangement is established for the industry as a whole and not just as a short term expedient. It must take into account the views of the parties in the industry. It is interesting to note that at yesterday's hearing the federal unions, particularly the Transport Workers Union and the Australian Workers Union, made it quite clear that they wanted an absolute assurance that any joint sitting arrangements would not interfere with their rights and their operations and would not adversely affect their members involved in other refineries throughout Australia. The Australian Council of Trade Unions supports the federal unions' view and sees the need for further consultation. Employer interests have also said that they want further clarification. Obviously, the best results cannot be achieved under a threat of industrial disruption. If an agreement in principle and detail can be reached- I have told  Mr Hills  that I believe that the broad approach of joint sittings provides a basis for solution- it should be possible to put it into operation quickly. Much progress has been made. Many organisations have expressed understandable concern, but I am certain that a solution can be found. Any industrial action in these circumstances would be completely irresponsible and quite unnecessary. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the texts of the following International Labour Organisation instruments adopted by the 64th session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva injune 1978: 
Honourable members will be interested to learn that the four instruments were referred to the appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities for examination and comment. The results of the examination indicated that there were minor points in some States which needed further investigation to ensure full compliance with the provisions of Convention No. 150 and Recommendation No. 158. With regard to Convention No. 151 and Recommendation No. 159, there were difficulties both within the Commonwealth and States' jurisdictions and ratification of this stage is not possible. However, the question of possible future action in relation to the four instruments will be considered by the joint Commonwealth-State consultative machinery on ILO Conventions and by the National Labour Consultative Council, through its Committee on International Affairs. 
Pursuant to section 126R of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904 1 present the annual report of the Industrial Relations Bureau 1978-79. 
I remind the honourable member for Hindmarsh that only the Commonwealth's contribution to the superannuation fund is fully indexed. As I understand it, the contributor has the choice between taking his contribution as a lump sum with interest and taking additional pension. In the latter case, I understand that what he receives is not fully indexed, so the total superannuation payable in that case would not be fully indexed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, I did make statements in the Alfred Deakin memorial lecture similar to those referred to by the honourable member and I do stand by them. However, as I made clear in the lecture, this does not mean that the problems of industrial disputation cannot be tackled positively and constructively. In this regard, the Government recognises that there are limits to what can be achieved by legislation. However, the Government also believes that its responsibilities to the public and to individuals make it imperative that it use all its available powers to encourage trade unions and employers to work within the established framework and, where necessary, to take strong measures to ensure that they do. 
In the longer term, the Government believes that what is needed is a change of attitude by all the parties, greater understanding of the impact of industrial relations on the community and more effective communication and consultation. We believe that legislation can facilitate and encourage a climate in which traditional sectional interests are abandoned and replaced by attitudes which emphasise common goals. Greater understanding can be brought about by better education at a number of levels. In particular, the Government considers its continuing financial support of trade union training is a most important contribution in this regard. As far as communication and consultation are concerned, the Government has acted by example in establishing the National Labour Consultative Council as a means of communication and consultation at the national level. I believe the principle of discussion with a view to reaching agreement where appropriate on which the Council operates, should be the principle on which industrial relations generally should be conducted and we will need to work further towards that end. 
Social Security: Reciprocal Agreements with Malta (Question No. 4638) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to Question No. 4328 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  6 November 1979, pages 2657-8). 
