I rise to make my maiden speech fully conscious of the important task I have been given as the democratically elected representative of the people of Riverina. I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your election to the high office of  Speaker  of this House. I also congratulate other new members who have made their maiden speeches in this, the Twenty-ninth Parliament. My first duty is a very personal one. On behalf of my family and myself, I wish to convey sincerely out heartfelt thanks for the comfort given to us from both sides of the House, from the House staff and from not only the Riverina but all over Australia since the tragic loss of my eldest son. The grief and utter desolation associated with the loss of a loved one cannot be shared, but the comfort gained from the sympathy given by compassionate people is a true expression of human love and understanding and cannot be forgotten.  Mr Speaker,  I assure you that my family and I will never forget. 
It is only fitting that I pay my respects to former representatives who have worked so hard in the past to look after the interests of all people living in this vital electorate.  Mr Hugh  Roberton is still remembered with affection, for he was truly a man of the people. I am sure that his friends will join with me in wishing him well in his retirement in Canberra. Despite his unfortunate and untimely incapacity through premature loss of sight, his spirit and love of life remain high.  Mr Bill  Armstrong, gentleman and personal friend, continues his involvement and retains his interest in the Riverina. I believe that his work in the field of estate and death duties while a member of this House has not been given due and justifiable recognition. The last sitting member,  Mr A.  J. Grassby, needs no introduction from me. He was, above all else, a man of the people and his energy, his vitality and his desire to help all must give him a special place in our hearts. It was a pity to see this man who had built up such goodwill fail to identify himself with his supporters in defeat. It was not reasonable or just for him to imply or suggest that the campaigns conducted by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and by me were anything but clean and honourable. Nevertheless, I do wish him well in his new job. 
With your permission,  Mr Speaker,  I should like to take this opportunity to refresh the memories of honourable members on some general aspects of the electorate of Riverina. Of almost 40,000 square miles, covering rich agriculture land, Riverina is probably one of the most important electorates in Australia. Every form and type of farming endeavour, with the exception of the growing of tropical fruits and sugar cane, is undertaken. I can only heartily concur in the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who wrote less than 5 weeks ago: 
The Riverina district, rich in history and rich in economic potential, contributes greatly to Australia's wealth and prosperity. 
In this fertile and beautiful region are to be found many of the great rural industries on which Australia depends, and some of her most attractive cities and towns. 
This afternoon I would like to speak about these industries, some of these towns, the people who live and work in them, and the problems facing them today. I know that ultimately I must be judged by these people on how I fulfil the task of seeking solutions to these problems. 
The electorate divides itself roughly into 5 areas: The northeast wheat area, the western grazing area, the southern grazing area and Murray Valley irrigation districts, the Murrumbidgee and Coleambally irrigation areas and the eastern mixed farming areas. Naturally, these areas overlap and some similar types of farming are practised in all, but the divisions are important because each one described has its own distinct set of problems. There are of course problems common to the whole area concerned with roads, telephones, mail and rail services which I will refer to later in this speech. 
To speak in some detail about each of these areas, first the northeast wheat area where West Wyalong, Lake Cargelligo, Ardlethan and Barmedman as well as the smaller but equally important towns like Ungarie, Tullibigeal, Rankin's Springs, Weethalle, Tallimba and Ariah Park, support the magnificent wheat farms covering this area. The chances are that the bread eaten by honourable members today had its origins in this part of Australia. As well as its great rural industry, Ardlethan is also proud of and grateful to its tin mine and workers for their contribution to the prosperity of a small country town. 
The great western grazing areas stretching from Goolgowi and Hillston through Hay and the famous Booligal to Balranald gives a glimpse of the sheer size of the electorate. Cattle and sheep are bred and fattened for home and for what once were thriving overseas markets. I sincerely hope that the recent currency devaluation will help in reopening these markets for the farmers and graziers of this area as well as for the rest of Australia. 
In the southern area stretching from Barooga to Euston along the great Murray River Valley including the centres of Berrigan, Tocumwal, Finley, Conargo, Deniliquin. Mathoura, Moulamein, Moama, Barham one finds vast irrigation districts as well as beautiful sheep and cattle grazing properties. The major problems are associated with drainage and salinity. These 2 words, 'drainage' and 'salinity', are to be heard at practically every meeting considering rural matters in this area. Both problems have far-reaching implications and are of national importance. The time has come for action from both State and Federal authorities as talk, investigation, planning and consideration and more talk will no longer serve any useful purpose. The people living in these once highly productive areas face continuing financial hardship in the short term and complete loss of homes and farms unless we, the politicians, take the necessary steps to avert such an outcome. I am aware and delighted to hear that the New South Wales State Minister will be visiting the area this month, but as a representative of the people, I would be neglecting my duty to them if I did not emphasise the need for action. 

 Mr Speaker, special reference must be made to the town of Deniliquin, which is the central or main town in the southern area. Its energetic council has worked hard to provide the district, as well as the townspeople, with a prosperous, modern town. If decentralisation is to be more than just a word then towns such as Deniliquin must receive priority treatment for assistance in the future. The Murrumbidgee and Coleambally irrigation areas are in the centre of the Riverina and provide a magnificent example of the rewards for hard work. When one thinks of hard work, one must naturally think of the tremendous contribution made by the wonderful Italian people and other migrants who have seen fit to settle in this part of Australia. Rice in abundance, citrus and stone fruits and grapes and vegetables provide this area with prosperity and stability. Who has not heard of McWilliams wines, Sunwhite rice and Letona fruits? Griffith and 
Leeton, dynamic towns, share an almost unlimited potential for development in the future. I personally visualize these towns becoming a regional growth centre and I shall work for this to occur. The last but certainly not the least important area lies on the east of the electorate. Wheat growing and sheep and cattle grazing from Barellan, through Narrandera to Jerilderie guarantee a livelihood for the farmers living here although the last 12 months have been extremely difficult. 

 Mr Speaker, I take time to praise the efforts of the Narrandera Shire Council on the work it has done in developing Lake Talbot as a tourist attraction. People from all over Australia will join with me when I congratulate the planners and workmen who have produced this inland oasis. From the foregoing description it is easy to understand why we of the Riverina feel justifiably proud of our contribution to the national wealth and prosperity of Australia. In return for this contribution we ask for no more than a fair share of the national wealth and prosperity. Currently we feel we are being discriminated against. 
You see,  Mr Speaker,  very few people of the Riverina drink filtered purified water, more than half of our dwellings are unsewered, many of our children travel an incredible 7,000,000 kilometres each year to attend school, and many of these are travelled over shocking roads. Buses have to be pulled by tractors in the wet season and in one shire during the current year the school children on one bus route lost 1 1 school days through the state of the roads. As well as this, the mail services have been irregular. The services are not as good today as they were in the 1950s, and train services are being reduced. Unfortunately in most cases the passenger train service has been the only means of travel for the aged, the invalids and the low income earners. I am aware that rail services are not a Federal matter but they are nevertheless a problem about which all of us should be concerned. 
The cost of installation of telephones and the cost of telephone calls are a real cause for concern and anger among country people. Telephones are vital for survival by families isolated from normal community services and for the purpose of communicating with doctors, tradesmen, business and friends. I make the point that these country people I refer to are not merely living in the country to escape from the city. These are producers. These are the people the Prime Minister said contribute greatly to Australia's wealth and prosperity. Yet the cost of telephones in 1974 is becoming a crippling burden, if not completely prohibitive. Costs of provision of lines to farms in some cases have been quoted in excess of $2,500. This is an intolerable burden for the average farmer or rural worker to bear and because of the vital job they do there is not one valid reason why they should be expected to pay such massive costs. 
Excessive rain during the past two seasons has produced some additional serious problems. Flooding this year has reached record heights on the 3 rivers, the Murray, the Murrumbidgee and the Lachlan. Many families have suffered the heartbreak of seeing homes and personal possessions destroyed or damaged, while the farmers with land situated in the flood plains have suffered losses to pasture and stock. That there was no loss of life along the Murrumbidgee during the recent record flood is a credit to the State Emergency Service, the flood warning system and the many voluntary organisations including service clubs, rescue clubs, church groups and the Country Womens Association, which helped in the crisis as the record peaks moved down the river. It was heartening, indeed, it was magnificent, to see the people in Narrandera, Darlington Point, Hay, Balranald and Euston rally together as one to cope with the problem. I pay them all the highest tribute. 
Special praise must go to the young men of the Leeton Rescue Club who travelled to, and worked in Darlington Point, some without the promise of pay from employers, for the duration of the flood. It is this sort of community activity and spirit which is so desperately needed in the country today if we are to solve the national problem, one even more dangerous than the flood just described. The damage caused by the excessive rains and flooding to the rural industry and to the roads is difficult to assess, but the figure for roads alone could be as high as $4m. Additional funds will be needed to bring roads back to a reasonable state of repair as they have never been in worse condition. 
No political speech about the Riverina would be complete unless mention was made of Aborigines. In most centres in the Riverina there are communities of Aborigines and these people have their own special problems. Understanding, education and time must be 3 ingredients in any satisfactory plan initiated to solve these problems but, sadly, I observe that there are little, if any, of these ingredients in the present policy. In many ways this Government's current policy is isolating the Aborigines to a greater extent than ever before and it is also helping to create additional and certainly more serious problems for the future. I would suggest that in many cases understanding and compassionate white leaders would achieve more at the local community level than Aborigines, however well intentioned, who are perhaps unskilled and untrained in the work that must be done. Furthermore, straight handouts of money are to be condemned as they merely produce a dependent response from the receiver whether he be Aborigine or anyone else. Some of the Aborigines' handouts discriminate against the underprivileged white citizens- and we have far more under-privileged white Australians than we have under-privileged Aborigines 
I am here to seek a better deal for the Aborigines and for the under-privileged whites. I am here, like many other honourable members on both sides of the House, to fight to keep Australia free and democratic, I am here to fight for, because I believe in, a free enterprise system where hard work and thrift stand the best chance of being adequately rewarded, and I am here to fight specifically for the needs of the people in the Riverina. Perhaps most importantly I am here to speak as a representative of the Riverina people on legislation being considered by this Parliament. If legislation put forward by the Government is designed genuinely to cater for the needs of people it will have my full support, but if legislation is designed merely to achieve some sort of political advantage then,  Mr Speaker,  you can be assured that I will be a hard and unyielding opponent to such legislation. 
In conclusion, let me emphasise that all of us as Australians, whether we come from the city or country, are inextricably bound together, our future is shared, our fortunes rise and fall together. If the great rural industries fall by the wayside weakened by subsidising consumers and secondary industries, while at the same time competing unaided on the world's markets to earn more than SO per cent of Australia's overseas income, it will mean the end of Australia as we know it and love it and I am here to help prevent that from happening. 
I thank you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  for the honour of allowing me to speak and to follow the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  who is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  in this place. I, like the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  have many Aboriginals living in the electorate which I represent and like all thinking Australians I would like to see these people live with dignity. No one would question the need for the allocation of funds for Aboriginal advancement. Because there is a pressing and urgent need for such funds to be made available I believe that we must agree with such an allocation. The allocation of such funds must be related to a policy, but if the policy or the application of the policy is wrong there can be a waste of the taxpayers' money. 
We have in this budgetary program the real possibility of a massive and inexcusable waste of the taxpayers' money. Furthermore, and more importantly, we may see the disintegration and the destruction of a very fine race of people. It appears that self-determination is the basis of the philosophy for the current Aboriginal policy. It is essentially a humane, well thought-out, theoretical doctrine, but a doctrine with very little practical application. How can people of any race or at any stage of development make qualitative decisions on matters of which they have little or no knowledge? More importantly, the unfortunate recipient of the present policy- and I stated this in my maiden speech the week before lastwhich is based on too many handouts is all too human. He is finite and he is now being destroyed in a far more insidious fashion than ever before. The tragic result is inevitable. The things that attract the Aboriginal are usually some of the worst aspects available from within the white society. I refer in particular to alcoholic drink. If this is taken in excess it will lead to tragedy. 
I make the point that alcohol as far as the Aboriginal is concerned now is causing a problem of the same magnitude as the Aboriginal problem itself. It will not be too long before we will need massive funds to try to cure the problem of alcohol among Aboriginals. I refer to some papers in this respect. The Minister himself stated that alcohol was disastrous as far as Aboriginals are concerned. The Minister said again that the policy was a disaster. Unfortunately in no papers could I find an indication that the present policy had any hope to offer for the future. The policy itself must be based on the needs of the Aboriginal people.  Mr Charles  Perkins stated that when he said:  ... the needs of the Aboriginal people should form our policy, administrative and budgetary guidelines. 
The policy should be based on the needs of people, not the wants of people. Unfortunately the basis of this present policy appears to be in the area of the wants of Aboriginals. If the policy is taken as far as the needs of the people are concerned and is based on understanding and compassion, has an educational program and is given sufficient time to work the policy has some chance of success. There is a Service axiom that says: 'A commander should never reinforce failure'. Service axioms, unlike political axioms, are born on those hardest possible arenas in the world and they have a tremendous element of truth. In this policy we have today we have exactly that. We are reinforcing failure. 
This year we are spending an additional $ 14m on a policy which has proved to be a failure. I think it is necessary for us to look very carefully at the policy itself. I am not standing here to criticise because of the mistakes that we are making based purely on expenditure. I am standing here because I believe the real mistake we are making is that we are destroying the Aboriginal people. If that is the purpose of the policy then it is a bad policy. A complete reappraisal of this policy must be made before we decide how much money we should allocate in this area. It is not too late. But if we continue with the present policy it will be too late and not much time has to pass before it will be too late. I do not think any honourable member on either side of the chamber would like to sit in this place and be a party to a policy which leads to the death and destruction of a race of people. That is exactly the position we are in today with the present Aboriginal policy. Give back to the Aborigine his dignity and the rest will follow. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. As I am a guest  speaker  at a number of school prizegiving nights in the coming month, I ask the Minister what advice should be given to the children who are leaving school about prospects for finding employment early next year. 
-The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  quite amazed me. It appears that his right to speak in this debate is based on no other qualification- and I guess that this is all that is necessary- than being a member of this Committee. I enter the debate because I have served in the Army for 26 years. I served in the war of which the honourable member spoke. I do not intend to shout. But I do believe that I have a contribution to make to the debate. My contribution will be concerned with making a number of observations on that part of defence, the Army, which I believe are pertinent when considering these Defence estimates. 
I am afraid that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  either knowingly or unknowingly misled the House. Only yesterday, when replying to a question by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin),  he said: 
It would not be possible to maintain a 3 task force Army, as we already have determined we will maintain. 
This statement, if taken on face value, would . lead one to believe that Australia has right now 3 task forces- 3 separately formed groups of men at full strength, trained, equipped and with the necessary logistic support to move and defend this country. The statement was, at best, misleading and, at worst, was nothing more than a falsehood. The truth is- surely when we speak about the defence of this country we deserve to hear the truth- that the task forces referred to have only 2 battalions each of which are at reduced strength. Each battalion is at no more than approximately 75 per cent of its strength. One rifle company from each battalion is not formed and the support company which provides the vital support for the battalion commander, if he is to do his job, is currently under-strength in each battalion. The fact is that the Australian Army at its best could provide only one battalion for sustained operations. This is a frightening fact when one compares that figure with those of the Army of our closest neighbour, Indonesia, which right now has 45 infantry battalions, 24 armoured battalions and 6 airborne battalions or a total of 75 battalions. 
The Australian Army currently is organised for tropical warfare. It is an organisation based largely on jungle warfare as experienced in South-East Asia. The mobility for the Army comes from outside agencies. Consequently today, with the new role of defending mainland Australia, we have an organisation which is just not suitable for the job. For example, a task force headquarters of more than 100 men currently has 3 Land Rovers and, slowly but surely, these are falling appart. The mobility of our infantry battalions is even worse and more than 90 per cent of the men must walk. To speak of outside support of troop carrying vehicles, armoured personnel carriers and helicopters is to dodge the real problem. In the vast spaces of Australia an Army based on an infantry organisation to be effective must have an integral mobility. 
The honourable members for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  Hunter and Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  all pursued the argument that we have a highly effective defence force. 
This just is not true. Those honourable members do not understand the business of defence but, with all due respect, they should, because, when operating, the Services are no more than a well trained team, no different in essence from a cricket team, football team, Olympic track team or a debating team. Would those honourable members send a football team to the United Kingdom with only 1 1 players, those players not having had the opportunity of playing together before? Unfortunately, if their rationale in the defence arena were applied, they would. 
The honourable member for Hunter keeps going back to the Vietnam situation. He would not know anything about Vietnam.  His  intelligence would not permit him to understand it. Would those honourable members I mentioned select only 8 players to represent Australia against England in the coming cricket tests? Again, on their defence rationale, they would. The facts are unpalatable to the Government theorists. It takes time to develop a Service team, and the expertise, skills and experience gained cannot be stored away. In the last 2 years the tremendous expertise developed through experience in Vietnam has been decimated. It takes years to accumulate, develop and pass on such expertise but it takes only weeks or months to destroy it. It is a question of whether Australia is worth defending. If it is, and the people I represent and speak for say it is, we should take steps to defend it. We certainly need more than one infantry battalion to carry out the role of defending Australia. 
No matter where one looks in reports submitted by the Minister for Defence one finds that he argues against the obvious and against what is, in fact, true. He says that it simply is not true that our defence forces are being allowed to run down to unrealistic levels. I submit that they are. The fact is that our forces have been allowed to run down. The Minister said: 
It can be said that they are being maintained at a higher level than at any time in our peacetime history. 
That is a terrible platitude. It is an untruth. We must look realistically at the problem of defence. It is suggested that it is not true to say that defence expenditure is being cut, but the Minister said: 
What we are doing is taking care that every dollar is well spent. 
Why has this Government not applied that rationale to other areas of spending this year? Why must it be in the area of defence that the 
Government is taking care that every dollar is well spent? So the story continues. The Minister said: 
It is not true that we are ignoring threats or ignoring the lessons of history. 
Unfortunately the lessons of history and threats are with us today as they were with us before the Second World War and before the First World War. Nothing has changed. If we are to continue on the reckless path on which we have embarked with respect to the defence of this country we will all see a very sad day in the future. 
-I rise to speak in support of the Bill. I think it provides only due and proper recognition of the service given to this country by the men and women concerned. I am certain that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  is aware of that just as much as I am. I think I could quote perhaps not from his words but from his intention when he said it was felt that the demands imposed on servicemen and the distinctive nature of their work warranted incorporation of their retirement benefits in a special scheme. 
I think this is a most important point which can be overlooked when we speak about the pension rights of servicemen and servicewomen. 
They do have distinctive work which is entirely different from that of any other section of the community. Because they do not have the opportunity to complain to seek the conditions of service that they would want in the job they have to do, I believe compensation must be made for those circumstances after retirement. This is why it is necessary that we recognise the work done by these men and women when they give service to this country. 
That service is far different from the service given by a public servant in Canberra. I suppose most public servants in this city would never be at their jobs without a collar and tie and would never be expected to work in conditions other than those suitable for the work they have to do. The serviceman is never quite certain what his working conditions will be. I speak now of the bulk of servicemen; I do not speak of those few who are perhaps lucky enough to see some of their service here in Canberra. I speak of the majority who on occasions sleep in the most appalling conditions because they must sleep in those conditions. I speak of those men and women who on occasions work for long hours in excess of any normal hours of work sought from men or women. Because there can be no recognition given to this type of work and to the conditions during their service, I believe it is vital that we recognise these aspects when they retire. Consequently, I support this Bill to the full. 
The Minister would be aware that anomalies do exist in the legislation, perhaps now not as far as the old legislation is concerned where the anomalies were felt by the servicemen themselves in their active service life. I think the defects in the previous complex schemes which had been a constant source of grievance and unrest amongst a number of the armed Services, are now passed to the pensioners themselves. This is in respect of pensioners in receipt of pensions prior to October 1972 as it is in relation to these people that the severe anomalies exist today. I ask the Minister to investigate these anomaliesundoubtedly he will- and where necessary take appropriate action to overcome them. If he does reply this afternoon, I would like to hear him give some indication of when these investigations will take place. 
I ask him also to see whether he can get some word back from the actuary about the surplus of money in the scheme. I think it was in March of this year that a surplus was revealed. Questions were asked in July. We are now in November. There is still no word as to the amount involved or exactly what will be done with that surplus. I find it just a little difficult to believe that there is no urgency about this matter. I speak on behalf of the people who believe that there is urgency; these are the people who need that money. I would like to hear when we can expect to get some reply on that problem from the actuary. 
I think pensioners all seek to have treatment from the scheme provided in exactly the same way. The most serious anomaly existing now is the one referred to by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  in which pensioners, a month apart in age, receive entirely different pensions. I do not think the civilian community at large would accept this sort of thing with respect to age pensions. It would mean that those who reached the age at which they were entitled to receive the pension at a certain date in 1972 would receive a pension at a given amount and that those who qualified for the pension after that date would receive a pension far in excess of the pension paid to those who reached the eligible age before that date. This anomaly must be looked at immediately. It must be overcome. 
The Country Party has much pleasure in supporting this Bill. Apart from those aspects that I have mentioned, the provisions of this legislation are long overdue. The Bill is one which certainly will be received with tremendous thanksgiving and pleasure by all those ex-servicemen and exservice women and by present serving men and women who can look forward in time to something of a better deal. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. It is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Gwydir on 2 1 November and is about wheat. As the current world price of wheat is in excess of $4 a bushel, will the Government reconsider the request of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to increase the first advance for wheat from $1.20 a bushel to $ 1 .80 a bushel? Since this is not a handout to wheat growers, why will the Government not increase the first advance to wheat growers? 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has me completely confused. He has made a number of contradictory statements regarding defence as it exists today in Australia. He said, first of all, that the Government is not particularly perturbed about the number of officer resignations and that it is accepting what is happening because of a nothreat philosophy developed by the planners to suit what is going on in the defence field today; yet in a statement he issued on 27 November the Minister pointed out that the 3 Services were still seeking suitable recruits and that the Army required large numbers of fit young men for its expansion program. So, on the one hand, the Minister is saying that he is not particularly concerned about the massive number of officers resigning from the Services and, on the other hand, the Minister is expressing his concern about an expansion program for the Army. This seems to be a contradiction in terms or an indication of a confused mind. Either way it adds up to a trouble for the Services that they should not rightly have, because of the Minister's doing. 
In answer to a question from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Young)  the Minister stated earlier today what he and this Government had done for people who are retiring from the Services. He stated that there was a rehabilitation and reconstruction scheme, that the Defence Service Homes Bill had been passed, that there were certain repatriation benefits and that conditions, pay and allowances had been improved. I agree with the Minister that all those things have been done. There has been a remarkable improvement in pay, an increase in pay, for Service officers since this Government came to power. However, again there is a contradiction. Service officers are now confronted with an improved Defence Forces Retirement Benefit scheme but at the same time there has been a healthy increase in the payment received on the job. How does the Minister explain why men receiving satisfactory pay leave the Service before time and accept a greatly reduced retirement benefit? An officer retiring at the notional retiring age 5 years before his normal time receives approximately 30 per cent less than he is entitled to receive upon normal retirement. Why would an officer seek to leave the Service, after spending most of his working life in it, 5 years before time at a greatly reduced pension rate? The answer is that the man must not have job satisfaction. 
This is where this Government has fallen down completely. It has decided that the problem in the Services can be solved by giving members of the Services more money. The same attitude has flowed into the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Massive increases of money have gone into the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and yet the people concerned are not happy with what the Government is doing. The question again is: Why? In the defence area the answer is fairly simple. The Government has taken away job satisfaction not only from the officers but also from the rank and file members of the Services. To speak of resignations of officers being on the decline now is again to fail to paint the picture as it really exists. At the moment we are in what I suppose one could call a trough of resignations. It is getting towards Christmas which is the time when those people who are seeking a discharge from the Services will let it stay over until January, February or March of next year. I ask the Minister to be very careful about making pre- dictions on the present state of officer resignations in November and December. 
In the Services there is a diminished responsibility, brought about deliberately by this Government. Young men who are graduating into the Services, whether from the Royal Military College or the Officer Cadet School, are faced with the prospect of going to units which have no soldiers. They are committed to certain tasks. They had been told in Service training that they would be in command of or would be called upon to lead a certain number of men. They have been sent to units which are completely under strength. This breeds dissatisfaction regardless of how much money the man receives in return for what he is supposed to be doing. This is what is happening now among all officers in the Services. They have no responsibility because the responsibility is slowly but surely being taken away from them. Whether they be in the field, where the reduction in troop strengths has taken away their responsibility, or whether they be at Army headquarters, where under this present reorganisation scheme most Service officers see their responsibility being taken over by civil servants, the officers do not like the position. I believe that these are the things that the Minister should look at. I also believe that the Minister has been either badly informed or wrongly informed. If he is being badly informed, I ask him to go back and seek better information. If he is being wrongly informed, I ask him to go back and make certain that those people giving him the wrong information are removed from the positions from which this information is coming. 
The next point which 1 think is important in regard to the Services today is that this Governmentit also did this before it came to officehas successfully made the serviceman a secondclass citizen. Whether the Government likes it or not, in my opinion it happens to be a hard, cold fact of life. Before the Vietnam war the Australian serviceman, when seen in the streets of Australia, was generally given the position due to him, that is, the position of a man giving perhaps the highest form of service to his country. -During and after the war in Vietnam the Australian serviceman became a second-class citizen. In fact, today it is very difficult to find a serviceman on the streets in uniform. This is the fault of the Government; no one else. We have to give back to the serviceman the dignity and pride that makes him feel that he is doing a worthwhile job for the country and not, as he feels now, that he is doing something that has to be hidden from the rest of the community at large. 
These are the reasons why there is dissatisfaction generally within the Services. These are the reasons why officers are resigning from the Services. Until the Minister takes positive steps to rectify these matters the trend will continue despite what he may say to the contrary. It does not matter how much he re-organises the 3 Services or how much he does here in Canberra; the trouble will still remain within the Services themselves and the number of officers seeking discharges will continue to increase. It is a very serious state of affairs. Right now we are observing a diminution and complete disintegration of Australia's armed Services. It is hardly likely- it is extremely unlikely- that Australia could deal with any trouble that may arise in the near future. I have stated before- the Minister did not seek to deny it- that currently the strength of the Australian Services for a continued action in the field is less than one infantry battalion. That is the present strength of Australia's forces for sustained operations in the field. 
-It is a disaster. There is no question about it. As the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  clearly says, it is a disaster- a national disaster. It is of no use for Government members to stand up in this House and voice platitudes about how much is being done in regard to the defence forces retirement benefits scheme and in regard to pay and allowances. What the Government has to do is to have a very close look at the Services as they are today and to obtain the best advice which will produce the Services this country needs now in the 1970s and which it will need in the future. 
-With due respect to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  I rise to express in this debate not only a personal viewpoint but also the concern shown about the Family Law Bill by the people of my electorate. I speak for them. The message from the people of the Riverina is crystal clear: They do not like this Bill. I am here to put forward the reasons why they do not like it. I speak for my family, for all families, for those people who are the very basis of this society. Letters and telegrams containing hundreds of signatures, as well as personal conversations with my constituents, have helped to influence my attitude to this Bill. Only 2 letters expressing support for the Bill came to my office. One was from a gentleman in Five Dock, New South Wales, and the other was from the Commonwealth Organiser of the Amalagamated Metal Workers Union, who at least had the decency to state that he was writing on behalf of a number of members of that union, although he did not state the number. 
I received on my desk a submission entitled The Family Law Bill- Its Laws and Principles' from a  Mr Ray  Watson, Q.C. I would like to read the philosophy of the Bill as described by that gentleman. He said: 
My own philosophic bent being existential and pragmatic, I can best analyse the Bill by what it seeks to do rather than divert into behavioural metaphysics. 
What in the blazes does that mean to the people of Australia? The point I wish to make at the outset is that the backbone or the heart of this country is still the family- is still the father, mother and children who work hard at looking after each other- and is still that despite the everincreasing pressures being placed upon the family from every possible direction. This legislation represents another pressure. I hope to point out in the ensuing minutes of my speech what that pressure is. The very name of the Bill is misleading; in fact, in my opinion it is offensive. It is certainly a contradiction in terms. It would be more accurately described as the easy divorce Bill. 
Before I proceed further let me say that those unfortunate people who are confronted with the divorce situation deserve compassionate, just and fair treatment. They are the people who have made a mistake in life. They have failed, for one reason or another, to make the marriage contract work. They are the minority and are currently a small percentage of the people who marry. When we make laws to help these people we must make certain that we do not make the majority suffer. This Bill will do exactly that. It will weaken the marriage contract, which in turn will lead to a weakening of the family as a basic unit of our society. Who would honestly go about the task of helping one party well knowing that hundreds and thousands of others would suffer as a direct result of that help? The Bill provides for only one basis for the dissolution of a marriage 12 months separation. This is a profound and revolutionary piece of legislation. It proposes a major change in the social structure of the Australian society. Because of that we must consider it carefully and look at the implications before we decide that Australia should take such a step. This is not really the time for platitudes or for legalistic arguments about the sordid aspects of divorce. This is the time to think about the consequences of this legislation for all men, all women and all children of this generation and future generations in this country. 
What is it, in this legislation that will weaken the marriage contract? I assume that all honourable members agree with the proposition that the marriage contract is an on-going contract. It is one that requires a continuing contribution from both partners if it is to succeed. Effort on the part of one is not sufficient. Here we have the real thrust of this Bill. It would permit the contract to be broken by the unilateral decision of one partner. Clause 48 proposes no objective test to ascertain that there has been an irretrievable breakdown, other than separation for a period of 12 months. Again let me say that there is room for reform in the existing Act. For example, we could substitute 2 years for 5 years as the period of separation. We could join together the grounds for divorce so that they are replaced by one ground, namely, conduct by one party justifying the other in withdrawing from cohabitation. But there is neither room nor mandate for divorce by abandonment. 
Whilst clause 48 is in my opinion the most dangerous clause of this Bill there are many others as unacceptable in the way they are written. I want to elaborate on only one clause because other honourable members who see the weaknesses of this Bill will speak about them. The proposal to which I refer is now in clause 1 1 7 which says that, in the event of a divorce being defended on any ground, each party shall pay his or her own costs. The effect of this provision is that if, for example, a wife is deserted and becomes involved in a defended maintenance proceeding she not only has the advantage of being deserted but also has the privilege of paying for it. This is irresponsible legislation. We, as men and women, are brought together to consider the needs of the community. We are not here to satisfy the wants of the few. Consequently we must reject this legislation. I do not commend it to you,  Mr Speaker,  or to the honourable members of this House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do. I find it necessary to bring to the attention of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  first of all the advantage he has tonight in having his speech broadcast whereas last night I had to deliver my speech to a closed House. Consequently the honourable member's statement that the honourable member for Riverina would have the House believe that all people in the country or in the Riverina are against divorce is completely wrong. 
-I did not make that statement. If the honourable member listens very carefully he will hear again what I said last night. I said: 
The message from the people of the Riverina is crystal clear They do not like this Bill. 
I do not like the Bill either. I was misrepresented also by the honourable member for Prospect in that he said that as an Army officer I was responsible for separating people. That is either a denigration of the profession of arms or it is a weak attempt by the honourable member for Prospect at humour. I would point out to him that this is a serious Bill to be treated seriously, and his weak attempt at wit would be better suited in some dirty, sleazy hotel which he probably frequents. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  referred to an interjection concerning a female who had apparently been apprehended, charged and convicted of stealing. I said: She meant it. ' I made that statement believing in the due processes of law. The honourable member then went on to imply that I had made some other statement - 
Is the Prime Minister aware that there are now 19 North Vietnamese army divisions in South Vietnam? If he is not aware of this I inform him that there are now that number in South Vietnam. Were these armed forces invited to South Vietnam? In Australia's cable to 
Hanoi on the observance of the Paris peace agreement was there any mention of the presence of North Vietnamese army troops in South Vietnam? If not, why not? What response to Australia's cable has the Prime Minister received from Hanoi? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-I will deal with you later, lad. It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is worried. He has good reason to be worried now that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has become Leader of the Liberal Party. As the months go by the honourable member for Port Adelaide will understand why his worry is so well founded. But this is not my purpose this morning. I wish to draw to the attention of the House and make some comments about the debate on the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on Indo-China. We find in Hansard that the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  stated in his impassioned plea to the House: 
We are not concerned about politics but about people. 
What wonderful words. He spoke them after he had wept on the arrival of the orphans at Mascot in Sydney. A newspaper article stated: 
The off-loading of those first fragile orphans was slow. One was blind. A few were polio victims. A girl had both legs broken. There was a baby 2 days old. The worst were carried in caressing arms. Bill Morrison, Minister for Science, wept. 
I ask the Minister when he started to weep. Was it on the trip up to Bangkok? Was it on the way back? Or was it just when the Press arrived to see the Minister for Science greeting the children to Australia? Has he wept since? Would it be possible for him to give a demonstration in this House of his tremendous worry and compassion for those unfortunate children? He says: 'We are interested in people, not polities'. What a cheap and nasty political trick to have his photograph taken with babies, the unfortunate victims of war. Let us have a look at the plight of these children from the time it was decided to bring them from Saigon. It took 26 hours to get those unfortunate children to Australia. They were left waiting on the tarmac at Saigon for 3 hours in tropical heat. They were carried to Bangkok in a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft which was not designed nor ever meant to carry sick babies. Then they were transferred to a Qantas flight to come to Australia. I simply ask the question: Why was not the Boeing sent to Saigon so that these unfortunate children, instead of suffering the hours of heat and the hours in a plane not equipped to take them, could come direct from Saigon to Australia if we were concerned with people and not politics? Having got them here and having placed them where they could receive attention we then had the next charade by those who show an interest in people and not politics in the actions of the Prime Minister. On Sunday afternoon, complete with camera crews, he must have his photograph taken holding a baby from Saigon. Is this concern for people and not politics? What a cheap and nasty way to attempt to get the votes of the Australian people by showing concern. If we are so concerned about these people what are we doing about people in Phnom Penh right now? Does the Minister for Science know what goes on in Phnom Penh right now? Is he aware of the job being done by  Dr Penny  Keyes, an Australian woman, who struggles to help these unfortunate people in the most indescribable conditions? She is not sitting aboard a luxury aircraft or weeping to show her concern as she steps from the door. I saw  Dr Penny  Keyes struggling with an untold number of refugees. If the Minister wept after what he saw on that aircraft, I can assure him that he would cry himself to death if he went to Phnom Penh. 
Politics, not people. Another cliche used by the Minister was: People voting with their feet. Unfortunately this cliche is true, and nothing that the Minister said in this House the other day will change it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! I refer the honourable member for Riverina to standing order 7 1 which states: 

No member may allude to any debate or proceedings of the same session unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion. 
-I would like to refer to . General Troung, Commander of the First ARVN Division. The Division and this man have been in continuous war operations 7 days a week for 15 to 20 years. I have factual evidence that General Troung had one week off last March. For the last 4 years he has served in Military Region 1 in Vietnam with his Division. In the last year he has seen his Division decimated, with 600 dead. In continuous operations against the North Vietnamese Army it suffered tremendous casualties. Had there been any political over-view by the NVA of the casualties they would have been withdrawn from combat, but it was quite obvious that the political purpose was to allow them to suffer those casualties in order to sap the strength of the First ARVN Division. 
Nevertheless General Troung, suffering from tuberculosis and from an ulcer, commanded that Division for 15 years with tremendous honour. In the last year he has made a superhuman effort. Yet this man now stands under house arrest. This man who has made a superhuman effort should be given an accolade by everyone who thinks he cares for people. Let me draw a military analogy here in Australia. We had a tragedy in Darwin. An Australian Army general was put in charge of operations in Darwin. After a week it seemed that the general had suffered as a result of going to Darwin. He was brought back and we named him as Australian of the year after one week in, I suggest by comparison, very reasonable circumstances. 
But those are the circumstances in regard to General Troung and his army under which the Vietnamese people are suffering at this moment. Instead of them receiving accolades, we write, them off. Because the people flee we make the weak excuse that they are fleeing from bombs. We do not understand the people, we have never tried to understand the people and we come into this House and say that they are not important. They are important only if we can make cheap political gains from their misery. Their misery will, go on. I have a document which tells what they face after Vietnam falls. It says: 
Once all non- Vietnamese witnesses have been removed, they will proceed to exact payment of the 'blood debts'. In a deliberately created atmosphere of terror, they will establish thousands of ad hoc 'people's courts', before which will be arraigned all those individuals and groups the Party has decided to eliminate. Those unfortunates will be accused of 'crimes ' which have no existence in civilised societies. 
A conservative estimate of the number to be butchered is in excess of one million. It could rise to several times that figure. Because the battles will be over and the big guns will have ceased to fire, .peace will be said to have returned once more to Vietnam. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the Leader of the House. 
That the honourable member's time be extended. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the consideration of Order of the Day No. 1, Government business, Grievance debate being continued until 1 o'clock p.m. 
That the time of the honourable member for Riverina be extended. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-I believe that this debate began, not with the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  entitled 'Australian Defence- the Reality' but more particularly with the answer which the Minister gave to a question without notice asked by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  In this answer the Minister made a very spirited defence of his personal staff, and I commend him for that. But I was appalled to hear that only the last mentioned member of the Minister's staff had any personal knowledge of defence- of war. I think a knowledge of war is very important because it is not gained with the achievement of a remarkable number of university degrees; it is not gained from a knowledge of what goes on in the research library of Parliament House. It is gained from having a complete knowledge of the management of violence; it is obtained by having a personal knowledge of what goes on in war. There can be only one way that that knowledge can be obtained. I believe that an analogy can be made with regard to the knowledge of surgeons. It is like a person saying that he had complete knowledge of what a surgeon does without being a surgeon. Here is where I think some of the Minister's errors lie. The information at his fingertips at the moment is coming directly from his staff. I make no personal attack upon the Minister's staff and thenability. But I do not believe that they are capable of giving sound advice on matters pertaining to the defence of this country. It is obvious that a lot of the advice has been wrong. 
Let us consider the strategic assessment situation which on this occasion appears to be favourable. We have changed the tune. The Government is now saying that the situation is favourable and that there will be no threat to Australia within 10 to 15 years. Let us look again at the no-threat concept. I think it is interesting to look back over the past 5 years- a very short time when compared with the 10 or 15 years time span suggested by the Minister's advisers. Let us compare the figures concerning military involvement and the interests in the Sea of Tranquilitythe Indian Ocean- of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and the area roughly described as South-East Asia. Let us look at the situation from the years 1970 through to 1975. In 1970, United States involvement amounted to approximately 500 000 men in this theatre. They consisted of 6 divisions of troops with air force and Navy support. In 1970 the United Kingdom had 9 infantry battalions- a division of men deployed in SouthEast Asia. Australia was capable of deploying 4 infantry battalions in the field. It is interesting to note that in 1970 the Russians had 2 warships and 3 support ships in the Indian Ocean. In 1975 United States involvement has been reduced to 35,000 men with no fighting troops. The United 
Kingdom now has 4 battalions. Australia is capable of providing less than 1 battalion for operations. At the same time, the Russian involvement in the Indian Ocean has risen to 12 warships and 17 support ships, an increase from five to 3 1 ships. 
Yes, 600 per cent. This incredible reversal in the balance of power has taken only 5 short years, and we are observing right now in Indo-China the first consequence of this reversal. Cambodia has fallen to a communist-controlled army. Vietnam is about to fall to invading communist forces. Thailand, Burma and Malaya are all experiencing an increase in communist guerilla activity and communist forces build-up. That is the reality. It seems to me that there are some people who just do not see it or, worse, just will not see it. The domino theory is dead only in the minds of some of the impatient, gullible Western journalists, the unthinking observers and planners, and the deliberate fellow-travellers who would sell out this country in a most un-Australian way. Not one statement, suggestion or word has been spoken by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  about possible future events in this region. On 8 April the Prime Minister said: 
Who rules in Saigon is not and never has been an ingredient in Australia's security. Our strength, our security rests on factors and relationships ultimately unchanged by these events. 
What utter naivete from a man who leads the Government of this country. Why make such a statement? The only possible reason is that the Prime Minister has neither the desire nor the stomach to face the facts. On 30 September 1974- only 7 months ago- this same man said in an address to the United Nations: 
Nuclear brinkmanship, ideology, border disputes, race hate, religious bigotry, national ambitions, foreign exploitation all provide actual or potential sources of tension, conflict, bloodshed and war. 
How those words must have rolled from the silver tongue of the Prime Minister. But the question must be: Did he mean them? If he did, then why has he become silent now about border disputes, national ambitions and foreign exploitations? The answer can only be, as I have said, that the Prime Minister has neither the desire nor the stomach to face the facts. Possibly he may even believe in the Asian proverb: 'Feed the crocodile and he will not devour you. ' Of course, it is because of these unpleasant facts and the unpleasant scenario in South-East Asia, with its doubts, its ever-changing political events and its real dangers, that thinking people from practically every section of the Australian community question the wisdom of the present defence policy of this Government. 
For the cynical, surely the proof that there is something drastically wrong can be found in the absolute silence of the communist elements working in this country at the present time. They must be delighted with the disintegration of Australia's defence forces. This disintegration can be highlighted by the following events. First, there is the reduction in the capacity of the Army to mount field operations. From a capacity of a 4-battalion task force in 1972- and this was the capacity from 9 infantry battalions on the order of battle- we now have the capacity to field an under-strength, semi-trained battalion. This is the reality, and it is a tragedy when viewed against the situation as it was in 1972, when the retiring Chief of the General Staff, LieutenantGeneral  Sir Thomas  Daly, said, with justifiable pride, that the Australian Army then was the greatest it had ever been in peace time. What about the training of commanders for the future, with an Army that now cannot put into the field a complete battalion? How do we train the battalion commanders of the future, the task force commanders, the divisional commanders? 
The second event is the drastic reduction in the experience level of officers and senior NCOs, leading to a serious drop in the professional capacity of the Services. Most of the 1000 officers who have left the Services have come from the middle ranks- the lieutenant-colonel, lieutenantcommander, wing-commander structure. The proportion of officers who have left the Services has been quoted as 1 0 per cent of officer strength. This figure is dramatic enough in itself but when it is analysed in terms of experience it means much more. Probably between 1 5 000 and 20 000 years of accumulated knowledge, skill, expertise and experience have been lost. This is irreplaceable. If this trend is not halted immediatelyand even now irreparable damage may have been done- the Australian armed Services will be incapable of defending anything, and the tongue-in-cheek reference by the shadow Minister for Defence may be closer to the truth than many people realise. 
The third event is the current reorganisation of  the defence organisation and planning staffs, which is achieving no more than dividing the Services, destroying the trust between servicemen and their civilian counterparts and lowering the morale of many servicemen who work in the Russell offices. Surely it is time that the Minister came to grips with this very serious situation. In general terms, the fault lies in vesting too much executive power in the Public Service and thereby emasculating the responsibility of the Service chiefs. History books are bulging with the folly of this philosophy, much as the proposition may appeal for use in peace time conditions. Soldiers are not engaged for peace and it will be too late when war comes to attempt to reorganise again to put the executive authority back where it belongs, and that is with the soldier. These 3 events, all attributable to the defence policies of this Government, have disintegrated Australia's defence forces, and nothing the Minister said in his statement alters these harsh facts. This is the reality, and what was stated in the Minister's statement is in fact the reverse of what really is now current in the defence structure of this country. 
Let me now point to some further areas of concern in our present defence policy, matters which should be debated in this House. First let me refer to a document presented by the Minister referring to a tri-Service academy, and the appointment of a development council for the Australian Defence Force Academy. The Minister said: 
I will recapitulate briefly the reasons why there should be such an academy. 
There were 3 main advantages in changing from the present arrangements for officer education. The Minister stated: 
Desirable though this may be -  and he was referring to the fact that the existing colleges channel the zeal and enthusiasm of young officers towards loyalty for their own particular service- 
Desirable as this may be, this early emphasis on individual Services adds to the difficulty of developing in later years the spirit of inter-Service co-operation that is essential in the prosecution of joint tasks. One academy will develop associations between young officers of each Service at the outset of their careers and this will facilitate inter-Service co-operation and understanding in later years. 
That refers perhaps to the lower deck. Let us consider what happens currently on the upper deck and how we divide up the inadequate money for the 3 Services. To put it crudely, we throw it on the table and invite the chiefs of the Services to grab for it. Does one achieve interService co-operation by giving an inadequate amount of money and then demanding that 3 senior officers, by wit or by guile, grab for that money? The Minister spoke about overcoming this problem by having one single Service academy. The whole proposition points to a lack of adequate knowledge of exactly what goes on in the Services. 
Let us consider another trend which is very important, and one which I think is very sad in this present day. I refer to the decline in numbers of servicemen wearing their uniforms in public. That is a rare sight these days, despite the fact that the Minister for Defence has said that there has been no significant drop in the number of servicemen. Why is it rare? Surely the answer is obvious. The pride to be derived from wearing such a uniform publicly is missing. Why does the Minister not investigate this matter in order to improve the image of servicemen generally and possibly make the serviceman feel that he is needed and that we, the citizens of this country, are proud of him? I am afraid that that is not what is happening today. We have denigrated the Services and the servicemen to the point where the servicemen no longer wear their uniforms in this country with pride. I believe that that is a disgrace. It is something for which the blame can be laid directly at the feet of the present Government. If one fattens a sheep dog one will get no work from it. If one does not train a racehorse one will not get from it a capacity to win races. That is exactly what the Government has done in relation to officers by giving them too much money and then not letting them do the job they are paid to do. 
Sitting suspended from  1.1  to  2.15  p.m. 
Question put: 
That the debate (motion by  Mr Cross)  be now adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, twice by the Minister for Defence in reply to a question by the honourable member for Wilmot. Had the Minister for Defence remained at the symposium in Cooma after delivering a very pitiful address on Australia's defences he would have - 

 -Yes Sir. The Minister stated in his reply to the question here this morning that I was representing the Opposition shadow Minister for Defence at the symposium. I stated quite clearly that the views I expressed at the symposium were my own personal views and not those of the shadow Minister or the Opposition. Secondly the Minister referred to the word 'conscription'. Again, had he been present at the symposium when I spoke he would have heard that I did not use that word at any stage. The word is his. 
I would be less than honest if I said that I did not have a personal interest in this debate. I am afraid that some of the members on the Government side in my opinion have been less than honest. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  represents an electorate of 8.5 square miles. The second Government member to speak in this debate, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  represents an electorate of 5.3 square miles. 
That is even worse. The honourable member was not honest enough to say so; it had to be brought out from him. The whole question here is whether the electorates have had adequate representation to date. The honourable member for Phillip admitted that they have not. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  not only admitted it but also gave certain suggestions how to improve representation within electorates. Surely we must be dealing with facts here. Government supporters seem to me to be arguing against themselves. They are admitting on the one hand that people in certain electorates do have inadequate representation, but they are getting out of this situation and having a little bit each way by saying that we need better facilities. I would like to talk a little tonight about this. 
I have a great responsibility on this occasion that outweighs any of my personal considerations. I must voice, on behalf of the people of my electorate, the strongest possible objection to the redistribution proposals. I am speaking on this occasion with almost absolute support from my people. I have practically every single member of the electorate of Riverina on my side. They are appaled at, they are against, and they have expressed their disgust at, the redistribution proposals. 
The facts speak for themselves. The proposals were published in my electorate on 4 March 1974. The Distribution Commissioners called for comments and objections. These were to be in the hands of the Commissioners by 30 March 1974, a period of only 26 days, which included the Easter holidays. Considering the time taken to inform, to organise, to collect and to forward objections, which was in fact less than 3 weeks, the results were overwhelming. They were overwhelming for 2 reasons. Firstly, they revealed a unanimity of feeling in the electorate towards the proposals. This was a feeling which cut across any party political proposals. Labor Party members and supporters in the community were just as unhappy with the proposals as were National Country Party and Liberal Party supporters and members within the electorate. Secondly, the results revealed quite clearly how much the Minister for Services and Property is out of touch with reality. 
While we are speaking about the Minister's responsibility for electoral matters, I think we should consider his track record on these matters. It is a record which, I believe, should give him no reason for self-satisfaction, self-gratification or anything else which would suggest praise. Compare the electorate of Riverina with the Minister's electorate of Grayndler. Grayndler is a mammoth 8.5 square miles! Riverina covers a meagre 40 000 square miles! Riverina is 5 000 times larger than the Minister's electorate. 
-It is 5000 times larger. 
I appreciate that comment from the honourable member for Burke. It is interesting to note that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has seen fit not to enter into this debate and not to make any points at all. 
That does not stop the honourable member from participating in the debate at all. Only last year, the Minister for Services and Property walked out of his front door, turned down the street, tripped over what he described as his dog- it was probably his electoral boundary- landed on the concrete, and broke his arm. Personally, I felt sorry for the Minister, but some of my acquaintances said some other things which were not as kind as I expressed at the time. An ambulance was called. I believe it came from outside his electorate. The ambulance took him to a hospital which was outside his electorate. I am told that the doctor who attended to him had been called from outside his electorate. How can this Minister have any understanding of the problems of large electorates? The Minister in fact started his parliamentary career on the Rationing Committee in 1946. 
Old habits die hard. He is still rationing. As his career comes to an end, he is now rationing electorates. 
But I come to a more serious matter concerning the Minister. Here I pay a compliment to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who have seen fit, as I would say most Ministers generally have, to go out to the electorates, to the grass roots levels, to see the effects of their policies and to find out at first hand what is going on. But what is the position with the Minister for Services and Property with respect to electoral matters? I would like him to answer me now by saying what rural electorates he has been to, to find out what the people think about electoral redistribution. Where has he gone? 
-I am told that the Minister went there because he was invited to participate in an old boys' reunion. That is the sum total of the knowledge that the Minister has of the electoral matters before this House. 
I return to the electorate of Riverina. I refer to Volume II of 'Copies of the Suggestions, Comments or Objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners for New South Wales', 398 pages of which express what the people of Riverina think about these proposals. There are 10 000 signatures on those pages from those people. I quote the words of the Mayor of Deniliquin, Counsellor Renwick, who says: 
This petition was influenced by the lack of time allocated, which meant that in the majority of areas only two or three days were available for the collection of signatures. 
This was brought about by Easter falling within the month allocated by the Commissioners for petitions to be collected, and by difficulties in communications. 
Of those approached to sign this petition 95 per cent expressed their ready willingness, and signed the petition. 
Had there been time to canvass the electorate fully on this matter, there is no question that over 50 000 of the current 5 1 000 electors of Riverina would have signed that petition. This is an expression of feeling from the people regarding these proposals as they affect the Riverina electorate. They have condemned the proposals. The Electorate Council of the Riverina Australian Labor Party condemned the proposals. That condemnation came from the Minister's own Party. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs has asked: 'What about 
Grassby?' Well, the former sitting member came forward at that meeting and in fact moved the motion to condemn the proposals. This was a tremendous pity because his track record in this House reveals something entirely different. At the time when the electoral legislation changing the variation of the quota permissible was debated in the House, the former member for Riverina voted 1 1 times in divisions in favour of the Bill. He voted 9 times to gag debate by the Opposition on that legislation. 
Putting that aspect aside, the question is: Why do the people of Riverina object to these proposals? The first reason why they object to them is the change in name. There is a historical significance connected with the word 'Riverina'. A Riverina electorate has existed almost since Federation. The district itself has been a recognised geographical area since the very early days of Australia. Why should an electorate which comprises 40 000 electors from the present division of Riverina and only 20 000 from the present division of Darling be called Darling? Perhaps a reason is that it would give an advantage to the sitting member for Darling in the event of an election. No other reason can be given for it. 
The second reason why the people of Riverina are unhappy with this proposal is that there will be difficulties with representation, and they know it. The present electorate is twice the size of Tasmania, and yet Tasmania has 5 members. I wonder whether the Distribution Commissioners took into account that the population of Riverina is distributed among approximately 80 towns or small villages. Why should these people not see their representative? 
The honourable member for Macarthur says that he travels 35 000 to 45 000 miles a year. The honourable member for Riverina currently travels in excess of 60 000 miles trying to cover his electorate. The previous honourable member for Riverina- I have no doubt that his word was true- said that he covered 100 000 miles, but of course he had the services of a driver and a car, which cost the Australian taxpayer $50,000 for the year. Assuming that I travel the 60 000 miles at 50 miles per hour, that is 1200 hours of driving time. On Public Service hours of 5 days a week and 8 hours a day, I spend 30 weeks of the year behind the wheel of a car. Honourable members opposite might say: 'There is nothing wrong with that'. But the point is that during that time it is impossible to provide any representation for the people of Riverina. On the other hand, the city representatives have that much time to work in their electorates. They do not do anywhere near that amount of travelling. In fact, I think it would be fair to say that some of the city representatives do not even own cars. 
Apart from the time taken to get around the electorate, it is tiring to drive, and consequently one's ability to represent the people adequately is decreased. During the coming weekend I will travel approximately 900 miles. I will not see my electorate secretaries before I arrive back in Canberra next week. I dare say that the city representatives will be in contact with their electorate secretaries by 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. If they decide to walk around their electorates over the weekend they will see most of their electors and they will have a lot of time in which to examine the Bills which will be before the House next week. Very few country representatives will be able to do this. 
The Minister for Services and Property says that he has an interest in people. If he has an interest in people, why does he not accept these things as facts instead of talking about how we can improve them in the future by giving the country representatives aeroplanes and the ability to get around their electorates. Let us deal with these things as they exist right now. I was disappointed to hear the honourable member for Macarthur say that country people had telephones with which to get in contact with their representatives. If he would come to the Riverina now I would take him to an area where 200 people were burnt out in the bushfires over Christmas. These people have not yet had their telephones restored because they have no money. They cannot get the money, and the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  will make no allowance for this position. It is politically desirable to make great play about the rebuilding of Darwin, but because there are no votes for the Australian Labor Party in the Riverina where I come from the farmers there will get nothing. 
The Distribution Commissioners stated that they were cognisant of the community of interest within each proposed division, including economic, social and regional interests. I heard the honourable member for Phillip ask what was the community of interest between the people living in North Sydney and those living in Sydney. I ask not only the honourable member for Phillip but also the Commissioners what is the community of interest between the fine people who live in Broken Hill who mine the silver found there and the people in the Riverina who farm in the irrigation area. Surely there is none. There is no point in saying that there is a community of interest among the people in the proposed new seat of Darling. 
The new electorate will be a quarter of the size of New South Wales. No talking by the Minister will ensure that the people of the electorate will get adequate representation. If they cannot get it now they will not get it in the new seat of Darling. Not only is Broken Hill a centre where the community of interest is completely different from that of the Riverina, but it is hundreds of miles away from the area of the Riverina. Under the proposed boundaries more people than at present will never see their elected representatives. There is no doubt that the Minister is responsible for this action. I can assure him that unfortunately his fine Party will suffer in country areas in elections because of his actions. I have no hesitation at all in condemning the redistribution proposals. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Will the Minister inform this House of the actual number of combat-ready Army units and formations which Australia could call upon at the present time in the event of an emergency? By 'combat ready' I mean units which are fully manned, staffed and trained as units for war. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to expenditure in spheres which do not relate to the ordinary day-to-day running of a Government, what sums have been made available to foreign countries by way of gifts for cultural purposes, e.g. the gift to Ireland for a Chair on Australian history, during the last 12 months. 
What sums have been made available to foreign countries by way of aid as distinct from assistance for immediate emergencies such as the recent Pakistan earthquake. 
What sums have been made available to people, such as  Mr Charles  Perkins, for study or literature or similar vague pursuits. 
What moneys have been given to various cultural organisations in Australia or elsewhere, e.g. for Aboriginal arts, etc. 
What moneys have been given directly to local government 
What moneys have been given directly to State instrumentalities and not channelled through the appropriate State Government. 
-Before I speak in detail about some aspects of the 1975-76 Budget, I believe it would be advantageous to spend a few minutes speaking about 2 words which have tremendous significance today. They are: Needs and wants. Both have personal and community application. Personal needs are basic and they are those things which we must have for survival. In broad terms, personal needs would be adequate food, adequate shelter and adequate clothing. The key word is 'adequate ', which, in no way, infers lavishness or luxury. Community needs would be adequate health services, adequate means of transport and communication such as roads, railways, and adequate means of verbal and written communication. I include education and sewerage and, in an uncertain changing world, adequate defence. Whilst this list is by no means complete I think I have highlighted the main needs of the individual and of the community. 
What about wants? First of all, what are they? I believe they are those things we would like to have- the non-essentials. They may even seem to be desirable but they are not really necessary. Most of us, if we are honest, will admit to having many wants. But- and this is the point- we probably can get by very well without ever having our wants satisfied. On the other hand, it is important that our needs be satisfied because if they are not, we suffer in some way. Family decisions are made daily, weekly, monthly and, in fact, continuously in relation to those 2 words. The breadwinner 's pay packet goes to satisfying the family's needs; or that is what should be done with it and, in most families in Australia, it is done. 
At the national level the Government is charged with the very grave responsibility of declaring how and when the needs of individuals and of the community can be assisted with the moneys it collects in the form of taxes. Whether they are direct or indirect taxes is not really of much concern. Consequently, the Government must know the difference between needs and wants. Once it is aware of the difference, it must be able to allocate priorities as to how and when they will be satisfied or dealt with. This is where the Budget fails. It fails because the present Government, made up of men and women who allegedly represent the working man, have been unable to recognise the needs of people as they exist in 1975. In fact this Government has done the unforgivable thing of spending the taxpayers' money on areas which can only be described as 'minor wants'. What is more, they are the wants of only a few- the vocal minorities who seem to have the ability to make men who crave to be called 'responsible' throw away logic and common sense. 
I now turn to 3 sections of the Budget. I refer firstly to health. We notice that there is to be an increase this year in expenditure on health of $ 1,494.1m. Practically all of this goes to Medibank funding. Health is recognised by all as an individual and community need. What has this Government done? Surely some questions are not only reasonable but must be asked. For all of this money, will we get better doctors, better treatment and an improved health scheme? The answer to these questions is an emphatic no. What we will get is a giant costly bureaucracy which will eventually decrease the standard of medical care which we currently enjoy. Let me emphasise that even the Government recognises that the majority of people were adequately covered before Medibank. No one denies that there was a need for better care for a minority group of disadvantaged people. But why spend such enormous sums of money only to bring about an inferior un-needed scheme. Perhaps it is not unfair to quote the words of Lenin who, in 1917, said: 
Socialised health is the keystone in the arch of a socialist state. 
So much for this Government's handling of the community's health needs. Let us look at housing which is an individual need and is perhaps the most important need of all for the family in the present day society. What do we find in the Budget on housing? We find a decrease in expenditure on housing this year of $69. 1 m. When this amount is considered with today's inflationary trend it is a shocking reduction in expenditure on housing. One could assume that the needs in this particular area have been satisfied and that all people, or most people, have adequate housing. What nonsense. Let me give honourable members an example, one which I hope will ring in the ear of every member of the Government for the rest of their lives. Only 3 weeks ago a woman came into my office with a request.  Her  request was simple: She wanted a house. This particular woman had 5 children, including 2 teenagers, who at that stage were living in a caravan for four in a person's backyard. I had to look at that woman and say: 'I cannot help you'. Only that morning in the Press I had read a statement indicating that this Government, under the Aus.tralian Assistance Plan, had given in that same area $15,000 to paint a hall in which 3 dances each year were to be held. If this displays a sense of priorities for the needs of this country, then I do not know what they really are. 
Let us come back to the Budget. Let us examine that section headed 'Culture and Recreation'. Is there a need for expenditure on culture and recreation in 1975 when this country is facing the worst economic crisis in its history? I say: 'No. A thousand times, no '. I am also saying, as strongly as I can, that expenditure of moneys on cultural activities today is not just unnecessary and not just unwise, it is a display of waste, of gross stupidity and of arrogance of an unbelievable kind. 
-Who will stand up on the other side of the House and justify the handout of $100,000 to Germaine Greer to make a film on sexual reproduction? I do not see many Government supporters standing. Who on that side of the House will stand and justify the grants given to produce  Eskimo Nell?  Who on that side of the House will stand and justify the literary grants to people who have not shown any special ability indeed have shown any ability to write? The proposed increase this year in this part of the Budget is $25.8m. Government supporters have asked where cuts can be made in expenditure. Of course they will not stand and justify this expenditure or condemn it because it was their own Leader who introduced this type of expenditure. I repeat his words in an address on the quality of life given in a radio broadcast on Sunday, 3 August. He said: 
This constant whingeing about grants .to the arts is one very good example of our opponents' hatred of anything that really improves the lives and opportunities of ordinary people, especially minority groups within the community. The fact is that the Government has a number of programs designed to make life happier and more enjoyable for people in small and some would say rather unusual ways. 
-How true. The Prime Minister continued: 
We see these as an essential part of the Government's work. 
Note, he said ' We see these ', not ' I see these '. 
Government isn't just a matter of providing roads and pensions and education. We want to do what we can to enliven and invigorate people's lives to make sure that the rewards and satisfaction of the arts and decent opportunities for sport and recreation and holidays are shared by as many people as possible and not just by a fortunate elite. 
I wonder whether those words could be displayed beside his portrait in every employment office in this country so that the 300 000 people currently seeking work could read what the Prime Minister had to say about them. 
The honourable member will not make any complaint about this. He will not stand and justify this terrible waste of the taxpayers' money because bis Leader has simply told him to sit up and shut up. Government supporters all now pursue the politics of survival. Their only chance to stay in office- in a job- is to do exactly as they are told, and they know it. 
-I take the point of the honourable member for Prospect and reply that I have seen better men than he is cleaning out toilets. In a weak attempt to reveal a strong and determined approach to coming to grips with excessive government expenditure the Prime Minister decided that his supporters would travel economy class. I say to members opposite that if he had based his decision upon performance he would have made them all walk, in which case fortunately we would have been lucky enough to see most of then miss the way back to Canberra. Has the Prime Minister reduced his excessive personal expenditure- $700,000 for his overseas trips last year? I understand there is the suggestion of another trip at the end of this year. Have the VIP aircraft been downgraded to economy class? Government supporters know the answers. They know that their Leader's excesses cost them dearly in the Northern Territory House of Assembly elections, that the Labor Party was thrashed in Queensland, got belted for six in Bass and went within an ace of dispatching Dunstan in South Australia. Yet Government supporters continue to sit up and shut up. They have forfeited the right to represent people because they lack the courage- the political guts -to stand in this chamber and tell the truth. How many of them have made honest speeches about unemployment or inflation? Not one. They continue to make an ever-increasing number of puerile excuses about why they are not to blame for anything that has gone wrong since December 1972. Well, the Government has been found out. The hardworking men and women of this country recognise the Government for what it is- incompetent and totally incapable of governing this country any longer. The only ones who continue to support the Government are the pseudo-intellectual halfwits who peddle communism, socialism and anarchy, and some of the bludgers who can cheat it for the handouts it gives. There are also some unfortunate few working people who still have not stopped to think. The opinion polls will spell out this fact for Government supporters if they need any further elaboration. 
What has the Government done in this Budget for people who live outside the vast urban centres of Australia- the people who helped make this country great and who still produce more than 50 per cent of the export earnings of Australia? The Government has increased their telephone and postal charges. It has imposed an oil tax which will probably mean an increase of 10c a gallon for petrol. It has increased the price of the working man's luxuries by imposing an additional tax on beer and cigarettes. Combined with all these harsh indirect taxes the Government, in formulating the Budget, deliberately rejected all the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. It did nothing about income equalisation for the rural industry. I ask honourable members to listen to the words of the Minister who is responsible for and supposed to care for people who work in the once great rural industries.  Senator Wriedt  said that the most important item not included in the Budget was income equalisation. He said: 
I think we could probably do more for the rural section with such a scheme than with any other single measure. But it was unfortunate that the report by the IAC on income equalisation came from the Government at such a difficult time. Because of this the question has been deferred until next year. That is the one thing on which I would like to have seen some action taken in the Budget. But I did not recommend it to the Government because I realised the difficulty that the Treasurer was placed in. 
What an indictment of this man. I say to hell with  Senator Wriedt  and to hell with the Treasurer. People involved in the rural industry deserve a Minister who will stand up and fight for them. This Minister has proven consistently and constantly that he will not do so. The Government has done nothing to reinstate the superphosphate bounty. It has shown no support for disease eradication programs. It deserves the derision of every man, woman and child who lives outside the cities, and it has got it. 
In case Government supporters have forgotten, let me remind them of some of the needs of the people who live in the Riverina. There is an urgent need for welfare housing for people who live in Griffith, Leeton, Narrandera, Deniliquin, Hay and West Wyalong as well as in most other towns. The people of Yanco need sewerage. It would cost only $300,000 to satisfy this need, or one-eightieth of the amount the Prime Minister is going to give to the arts in the next 12 months. The people of Deniliquin need filtered water. This would cost only one-tenth of the amount to be given to the arts this year. The people of Booligal need electric power. This would require only one-twentieth of the amount to be given to the arts this year. Only recently the school in Booligal was given some very fine electronic equipment to the value of some thousands of dollars. It is a great pity that they do not have power at the school to enable them to use it. The shires of Carrathool, Hay, Balranald, Wakool, Murray and Jerilderie- names Government supporters have probably never heard of, because they are not interested- need money to build allweather roads so that children, Australia 's greatest asset, can get to school in wet weather. This need could be satisfied with 50 per cent of the money going to the arts. 

 Mr Speaker, I think the message is clear. This Budget fails miserably in tackling inflation and unemployment. It fails in allocating the available moneys to areas of need and in the correct priorities. 
The tragedy of this Government the Minister who interjected is part of it and he has the biggest mouth in it- goes even further. In  Vh  years, through economic mismanagement, it has raised the expectations of practically every sector of the Australian community and then, when it has realised the bitter facts of this economic mismanagement, it has attempted to cover up its shocking and culpable neglect with a Budget, the authors of which say is responsible. I endorse the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. It would seem to me that the only decent thing for this Government to do is to resign. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to 2 statements attributed to the Prime Minister over the weekend: Firstly, his reference to the Premier of Queensland as a bible-bashing bastard and, secondly, his suggestion that the Australian Labor Party could win 5 extra seats in Victoria alone in any forthcoming election. Will the Prime Minister consider submitting himself for a thorough psychological examination and, in the interests of open government, will he release the psychologist's report to the nation so that it may be assured of his sanity or otherwise? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, for the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  to speak about humbug and political advantage or gimmickry is almost hypocrisy in the utter definition of the word. It was this Minister who, on the arrival of the orphans from Vietnam, cried in front of the public of Australia to try to win cheap votes. And he talks about gimmickry. Unfortunately he has missed the point of this debate. The subject, if I can spell it out to him again, is the failure of the Government to recognise the importance of the cadet system to Australia. He has tried to narrow this debate purely into a defence argument of whether $10m spent on cadets from a defence vote is getting cost effectiveness in the defence vote itself. That, of course, is not the argument here today, The money does not come only from the defence vote. I think the Minister misses the point that this money comes from the taxpayer. It is a question of how the taxpayer wants his money to be spent, not a question of how the Minister for Defence sees fit to divide up the money given in the defence vote itself. 
It was suggested that the reason for abandoning the cadet corps was based on economic grounds. How can this Government stand up and profess with any validity to pursue that particular argument? With a deficit of at least $2,800m for this financial year the Minister for Defence starts to argue a trifling point about $10m, as if the Treasurer said: 'Bill, it is up to you to find $10m because the electorate will accept $2,800m deficit but it will not accept $2,8 10m.' What absolute humbug. The Minister has not done his sums. He stands up in this House and expects us to believe that his reason for abandoning the cadet corps is economic. It will not wash. The Minister may suggest that this action was taken in response to the mass of public opinion, that the electorate at large said to the Minister: 'We want to get rid of the cadet corps'. Can he produce one scintilla of evidence to support that argument? Of course he cannot. 
Perhaps there is a deeper, more sinister reason, a political reason, why the cadets have been abandoned in Australia. We can go back first of all to December 1972, post a couple of weeks. I happened to be in the Service at that time and I was receiving officer for a delegation from this Government around the Army camps in Australia. One of the first questions put to me over luncheon by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  from this House was: 'Do you think that the cadets should be abandoned?' This was in 1972. The Minister stated in a statement just recently: 
Well I've been Minister for Defence for the last 2 months. IVe had to make a number of critical decisions on how we expend the taxpayers' money and this is one of the decisions I had to make. 
The decision was taken long ago and the planning was made long ago to get rid of the cadets from this country. In 1973, if my memory serves me correctly, it was this Government that said to those schools with cadet units which had compulsory involvement in cadet training that financial commitments to those schools would be withdrawn if the compulsory commitment were not removed. That was a clear indication of what the intention of this Government was as far as the cadet units were concerned. Let there be no doubt about it. It was only then, when parental approval was given to those cadets to undertake such training, that the Government realised it was beaten on that point and it had to change its policy. 
Now through a back door method, using the excuse of financial trickery in the defence vote itself, the Government has found a reason to disband the cadet corps. The Minister has put forward fallacious arguments, has quoted very senior people within this country out of context and has not given the whole picture. The Department of the Army stated the value to the Army of the cadets. Among other things it said: 
It allows the Army to keep in touch with current educational standards and the youth of the country. 
The main advantages to the nation in the Army being involved in the Cadet Corps are subjective in nature. 
Cadet training assists in developing better citizens. 
Cadets develop skills in a structured environment supported by the authority of the school and fostered by the Army. 
When quoted against some of the things the Minister has stated in this House these statements make his argument appear very fallacious. 
The Millar Committee report had this to say: 
The current role of the school cadet system is to develop in the school cadet the qualities of leadership, citizenship and self-reliance in a disciplined environment. The Cadet Corps appears to be insulated from the community and only rarely does it appear to become involved in community affairs when compared to other youth organisations. It is not in the long-term interest of the nation or the Army to be involved in an activity that appears to be selfish. In this era of social consciousness steps should be taken to bridge the gap between the cadet scheme and the community. 
There is a suggestion that steps should be taken, but no suggestion that the Cadet Corps should be abandoned. In relation to cadets as a youth activity the report stated: 
The accumulated weight of evidence submitted to the Committee claims the following assets for Cadet training: 
It teaches discipline- the capacity to accept and to give commands, and the first must precede the second. It fosters self-discipline. 
I think it was some obscure Frenchman who once said that freedom is the luxury of the disciplined. If one removes the discipline, axiomatically one destroys freedom. Unfortunately there seems to be a move now by those pseudo intellectual halfwits who trot around the corridors of this House giving advice to the Australian Labor Party to destroy such things as discipline, authority and responsibility. The Minister, who seeks to interject, is long of tongue and short of brain. 
The report continues: 
It teaches leadership and encourages initiative; it makes the boys think their way through situations where they are responsible for others. About one cadet in three eventually has a leadership position of some kind. 
It teaches boys to work as a team, and to sublimate personal considerations in a common objective and shared experience. 
In these days when our youth take a selfish approach and do their own thing there is a real need to communicate this message to the youth of this country. The report goes on to say: 
d) It fosters comradeship among the boys, crossing class or educational barriers. 
It fosters loyalty to one's country, to the school, and to the group. 
I ask: Are these bad things in the Cadet Corps? Of course they are not, and the Minister should recognise that. The report continues: 
It teaches self-reliance and self-confidence, enabling boys to cope with situations they would otherwise find difficult or impossible. 
There are many other assets listed. The Millar Committee spelt out its recommendations clearly to the Minister. It suggested: 
That the present Army Cadets system be retained, with modifications, and on a totally voluntary basis during peace time. 
That is the first recommendation but the Minister cites the report out of context. 
A gentleman who prepared a thesis on the Australian Cadet Corps and who is a postgraduate student of the University of Sydney said this: 
The function of the corps is not military training. It doesn't train boys how to kill people. Indeed the Army sees no military relevance in the corps at all - 
This is a point that the Minister stresses- many Army officers are opposed to the corps entirely and see it as a non-profitable drain on Army resources. The Millar Committee reported that a boy's career in the corps was equivalent to 2 weeks of recruit training. Instead of drawing conclusions from this about its non-military role, too many people immediately jump to the conclusion that it is a waste of the Army's time. 
The Minister has jumped to that conclusion. The gentleman concerned went on to say. 
The corps is a youth educational organisation, with a military flavour. Who but the Army can provide the logistical and administrative back-up for a youth organisation of this kind and can provide skilled instructors? 
Virtually all the submissions speak of the corps developing qualities such as leadership, discipline, self-reliance, responsibility and knowledge of 'self through the medium of activities such as map reading and navigation, search and rescue, adventure activities, camping, hygiene, first aid, bushcraft, bivouacs and camps. 
It provides a multitude of activities for the young men of this country which are not readily available through any other equivalent source at that age level and in that form. He concludes by saying: 
Will the Government really be blinded by political expediency and influence from an Army solely concerned with its minimal defence budget? The cadets are too important a youth organisation to be abandoned in the name of saving money, what will the extra money buy for the Army? Ten more tanks? How can this Government, so avowedly concerned for the environment and getting people to enjoy it, disband an organisation that fosters enjoyment of it? And educationally, this Government has expressed its concern for the youth of Australia. What a contradiction. 
The Government stands condemned because it has come out with an arrangement to disband the Cadet Corps of this country when the population of the country is quite clearly against that decision. 
-Will the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations consider changing the method of payment of unemployment relief? Will he investigate the suggestion that payments be made through the States to local councils and that such payments be made only on the basis that some established period of work be performed which is supervised by an appropriate officer of the local council? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I pass to you my congratulations. I congratulate the  Speaker  on his election to his high office and I certainly congratulate the new honourable members of this House on the excellent speeches already made. My purpose is to bring to your attention and to the attention of all honourable members what I believe to be the real and serious plight of all Australia's rural industries. I propose to speak on this subject on a number of occasions, time permitting, dealing particularly with the rice industry, an industry which only last year was recognised as the most highly organised and intelligently operated rural industry in Australia. It has been repeatedly used as an example of logical structure, careful planning and successful marketing. The criticisms of other industries which have been floundering cannot be levelled at this industry. However, the rice industry suddenly finds itself in a state of irreversible decline which cannot be corrected by any commercial means. What then has gone wrong? Why has one of the best rural industries suddenly found itself in trouble? The answer lies in the subject of exports. 
The widespread ignorance about the real state of the agricultural export business is frightening. Many journalists reporting on rural affairs and the armchair academics, including some in the position of advisers to politicians and departmental heads, have created a widely held myth that the only thing agricultural exporters need is awareness of modern marketing psychology, an aggressive and centrally co-ordinated sales approach, and a few other assorted phrases of pseudo-economic jargon. These same journalists acidly claim that, armed with those invincible weapons, the unimaginative and incompetent little men with brief cases could take overseas markets at their will and magically bring home the hitherto unwon riches that he overseas in a hungry world. I am sorry but prepared to admit that in the past I have unwittingly helped to spread this sort of nonsense. It is simply not true. 
The truth of the matter is that agricultural export industries, particularly those selling processed products, are in critical trouble. Some of the industries, such as the canned fruit, dairy products and perhaps even the meat industry, are in such trouble that they will disappear if assistance is not forthcoming. The condition of these industries is blamed variously on their structure, their leadership and their planning, but mostly on the fact that they are operated by farmers and not by economists, agricultural journalists and experienced city businessmen who can handle big commerce. What academic hogwash. The critics of these devastated industries have not the political honesty, indeed any honesty or desire, to look more closely at the extraordinary circumstances which have been building up for years and which have finally swept down on Australian agriculture in an inflation fed avalanche. No new efficiencies, no production breakthroughs, no marketing initiatives can overcome the appalling waste of money that the wage structure, the transport system, the wharf handling and shipping freight charges rip off the exporting industries. The low returns for agricultural products whose high volume and tonnage actually carry the transport systems have been bled dry by the fairyland of inefficiencies, feather beddings and go-slows that have been building up year after year in the transport industry, the seaboard and the shipping companies that have to toe the union line in Australian ports. If that remark, in the closed minds of my friends opposite, is to be called union bashing then it is past time that we did a lot more of it. 
I believe that unless we take action to clean up the mess in our transport industry, particularly on our waterfront, we will witness Australia 's fall to complete economic disaster. I believe also that there are evil, clever men in this country who would not only welcome this situation but also are actively working for it to happen. 
I wish the honourable member would go too. The farmers, because they have had really no choice, have learnt to accept this situation. Basically they believed that if a group of people could organise themselves to extract these benefits from a group of employersincluding politicians and Government departmentswho were prepared to shrug their shoulders and reluctantly agree to pay the price for industrial peace at someone else's expense, then good luck to them. There was nothing much that the farmers could do about it. They could not construct their own railways, wharves, and ships and man them themselves. This sort of practical fatalism has gone on for years. 
The system has financed its needs by booting the agricultural goose, and every time this patient bird has strained and grimaced and laid the required golden egg. But now that bountiful bird is unable to cope and unless the system it has been supporting gives it some pretty strong nourishment and force feeding, the creature will die and the weight of the dead carcass of agriculture will cause a lot of Australians to to die as well. Of all the exporting countries Australia stands alone in not significantly subsidising her agriculture, despite the carping criticisms of those uninformed members on the Opposition benches. For example, the Japanese rice growers receive ten times more per ton of rice than the Australian rice farmers receive. The Indonesian farmer gets three times as much per ton of rice as the Australian rice farmer- and the Indonesian farmer is said to be in the peasant class. The farmers in the European Economic Community get six or seven times the value we receive for a huge range of their products. The United States farmers have a multitude of Government aids and export concessions which give them incredible advantages. But the Australian farmer remains the last of the amateurs. Our agricultural exporters are the last of the free traders, trying to match muscle not with other farmers but with other governments. How can an exporting industry in a country geographically remote from its markets support a home cost system, which is the most luxurious in the world, against competitors who have either a subsidised export system or a lower cost home wage structure, or both? 
But the questions go further than that. How can poor, hungry countries pay for food which is carrying so much cost imposed on it after it leaves the farm gate? There might be some masochistic satisfaction among farmers if they knew that the low prices they are receiving are giving cheap food to someone. But the prices for food are rising while the farmers 'returns are falling. Who are getting the benefits? We know that the shipping lines are going broke and the railways do not pay. A large part of the answer can only be that John Citizen who works for a wage handling the produce, and those involved in the administration of the industry, including politicians and public servants, are all beneficiaries. I am afraid things will have to change. A percentage of our tax money will have to be turned back into the export agricultural system either directly or indirectly to keep it going. Otherwise, some very big rural industries will fold up and this great rural exporting country will suffer some serious consequences. 
I speak as though I were unaware of action taken by this Government to give some assistance to Australian rural industry. I am not. I congratulate the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for his awareness and for his determination. The reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and the decision to remove the beef export levy are adequate examples of his efforts. But much more has to be done. I am sure that the Minister is equally aware of this fact. However, awareness on the part of the Minister is not enough. We must all be aware. We must all realise that Australia's future prosperity still lies largely with the success or otherwise of our rural exporters. They must be able to compete and win on markets thousands of miles away. We must all support measures which will help them to succeed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Has the anti-smoking campaign reduced the incidence of cigarette smoking in Australia? Is the Government concerned to reduce the incidence of cigarette smoking? Futhermore, is the Minister aware of the fact that alcoholism is a major health problem in this country? If so, what actions have been taken to reduce the incidence of this disease in Australia? 
-I rise to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and seconded by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  I do not believe that the amendment moved by the Opposition is even worthy of comment. But I believe that it is necessary not only for me but also for all honourable members - 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. In his excellent address the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  asked as a general question whether some member in the House had said that the workers involved in the vehicle industry had received $4,000 each year from the taxpayers. I intimated that I had made that comment and he gave me credit for it. It was not I; it was the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  who made the statement and I claimed credit for it. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker  I rise to inform honourable members of some of the costs incurred by the younger generation in attempting to move on to the land in 1976.I give a case history of a young man in my electorate who wishes to be a farmer. This man wants to be a farmer; he makes no apologies for that. With the costs that are now facing him he will probably have to reconsider his decision and go to the city. This man is qualified, he is a professional man. He is in agricultural science and he desires to become a farmer. In a reasonably closely settled area he has builta house for his wife and himself. A child is expected. The house cost $20,000 to build and I think all honourable members would say that must be a very modest house to be built in the country at that cost. 
Listen to these charges for services which he is now confronted with to turn that house into a home. A septic system will cost him approximately $600. To bring water from the river, no more than 250 metres away, will cost him $1,300. On top of that he is faced with the prospect of paying a bill of $2,800 to have electricity connected to the house, and it does not have to come very far. Here is the charge to have a telephone connected to his house. I point out that there is a PMG cable within 80 metres of his back door, and within that PMG cable there arc spare lines. He has been notified that the cost of installing a telephone in his residence will be $4,902. The total cost of services which today most people say are reasonable will be $9,700 for a $20,000 house. One-third of the total cost of his home is for services that most of us really do not think about when we build in an urban area. 
If our young people who wish to take up farming are to be confronted with charges like this, there is not much hope for the rural industries because the average age of farmers, I am told, is now getting very much into the late 50s and unless we get younger people to go into the rural industry, it will collapse. The result of that collapse is perhaps too much even for us in this House to contemplate because this country, whether we like it or not, is tied to a prosperous rural industry and I do not think there has been any reasonable suggestion, certainly by any member of this House, for an alternative for this country. I suggest that we all take heed of those figures I have mentioned tonight because here is one of the real problems associated with farming in this country today. The debate which has just concluded successfully for the re-introduction of the fertiliser bounty is not of much value to young men like this if they cannot get themselves established on the land itself. I did not hear from the Opposition tonight any claim that superphosphate is not needed in Australia. The country has no alternative but to use it. It is unfortunate that the tag for superphosphate has gone to the agricultural Ministry. 
-I rise to support the timely statement made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on the question of the unemployment benefit and the work test. I go even further: I congratulate him. I congratulate him because he has had the courage to take the necessary steps to correct the abuses involved with the payment of the unemployment benefit which, to some extent, was a legacy of the Whitlam Labor Administration. I say 'to some extent' because it is important to remember that a previous Minister for Labor, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  did attempt to rationalise the scheme for providing unemployment benefits. As early as 1973 he agreed to vary the instructions to the Commonwealth Employment Service concerning the work test. The changes placed greater emphasis on whether there was a job available for a person in his or her usual occupation or in an equivalent occupation. In April 1974 the honourable member for Hindmarsh accepted recommendations from the working party he had initiated on the subject of the work test. The work test rules were changed. Furthermore, guidelines were provided for the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service staff in administering the rules. I shall read the guidelines because I believe they should be included in  Hansard.  In brief, the guidelines were these: 
Applicants will be considered not to have satisfied the Work Test if by their own actions they indicate they are not genuinely seeking employment, for example: 
they deliberately choose to make themselves unavailable for work by moving to a location where no such work is available; 
they deliberately make themselves unacceptable to employers; 
they seek only occupations for which they are not qualified or which are extremely rare and in which vacancies would rarely, if ever, be available in their area of residence. 
In May 197S the then Minister, the honourable member for Hindmarsh, amended the guidelines again. After dealing with new terms in relation to married people he had these guidelines issued in relation to travel. Again I shall read them for the purpose of getting them into  Hansard: 
In determining what is excessive in relation to travelling time and to travelling costs respectively the following will apply: 
providing public transport is available or the applicant has his own transport, one and one-half hours travelling each way should not be excessive; and 
the cost of weekly return fares should not be in excess of 5 per cent of the basic salary offering for the position in question. 
That was the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Immediately after that action was taken by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, he asked for the reconvening of the interdepartmental working party to examine further the operation of the work test and related guidelines. The report was presented in August 1975 but no decisions were taken before 11 November. The point about all this is that the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is not acting unilaterally; he is merely continuing the efforts made by the previous Ministers to rationalise, update and refine the unemployment benefit scheme. In January 1976 the present Minister and the Government took early action aimed at eliminating abuses which, in the words of the Minister, had become all too common. The incredible response to these initiatives by some members of the Opposition and by certain sections of the media is almost impossible to comprehend. Before the Government took its action almost every responsible Australian called for action to eliminate the bludgers. 
Let me define the term 'bludger'. By 'bludger' I mean, and I am sure we all mean, a person who can work, who refuses to work, but who accepts the unemployment benefit. That that type of person exists only in a minority in the community is accepted. However, what all right thinking people felt was that the system was condoning the existence of the bludger. The unemployment benefit or the dole was fast becoming an alternative life style, particularly as far as some of our young people were concerned. For example, I am sure I do not have to remind honourable members that in many schools children completing their final year of study were being given an application form for the unemployment benefit. I might add that, after surviving many years on pocket money, which in most families did not amount to much, the unemployment benefit was an extremely attractive and generous gift. It was no more than a gift. I am cynical enough to believe that it was intended by some to serve a more sinister purpose. There can be no doubt that real damage was being done to the moral fibre of our youth by the payment of this money. They were getting something for nothing. They were getting a generous handout. I even heard the unemployment benefit referred to by some young people as pay. It was considered to be no more than a reward for being alive. 
I do not have anything to say about the people who are capable of working and who show no desire to work. That is an individual decision and it is an individual responsibility. But what I am certain about is that the great majority of Australians will agree with me when I say that those people should get no assistance from the community; they should get no share of the taxpayers' money. As a member of this House I will support any initiative taken by the Minister to prevent them from getting a handout of any kind whatsover. Any system which allows such a thing to happen is a bad system. Furthermore, any system which allows, condones or actively supports a philosophy which can turn even a few of our youth into bludgers must be changed or abolished. 
As I said previously, the reaction of some members of the Opposition and of certain sections of the media to the action of the Minister to clean up this whole sordid mess is difficult to comprehend. I would mention one media criticism which appeared in the 29 March to 3 April 1976 issue of the  National Times  under the title: 'Dole Brutality: the unacceptable face of big government'. I might ask the question: 'Unacceptable to whom?' The majority of Australians are quite clearly on the side of the Government. It was an election strategy which was quite clearly stated at the time and which was acceptable to the electorate. As I have explained, it has been a continuing process. The present Minister has seen fit to take action which should have been taken a long time ago. There has been no brutality, there has been no witch hunt, there has been no desire to cause hardship, there has been only a determination to abolish the abuses of a government scheme by a few; a scheme in which the taxpayers ' money is involved. 
Let me inform all honourable members and the media that the first and foremost responsibility of all members of this House, including members of the Opposition and particularly members of the Government, is to see that the taxpayer's dollar is spent wisely. Too much of the argument used by members of the Opposition has been based on the development of the emotional points raised by the author of the article to which I referred. Not one member of the Government, and certainly not the Minister, has inferred that those who are getting the unemployment benefit and who are genuinely unemployed are dole cheats or bludgers. In fact I find the word 'dole' offensive, as would most honourable members. The word 'dole' is one used by the media and by some members of the Opposition. 
Particularly if you are one. I take this opportunity to praise publicly the work done by members of the Department of Social Security. Those who currently operate the offices in the Riverina electorate have borne the brunt of the administrative workload of the unemployment benefit scheme. They have done this job in excellent fashion. In my two years here I have not received one complaint against the officers of this Department. That is an excellent record which should not be let pass without some public recognition. We hear too much of those few public servants who provide unsatisfactory service to the public. I congratulate these departmental officers on a job well done. 
Many people in my electorate, particularly shire and municipal councillors, have expressed the opinion that it would be desirable to make unemployment benefit payments only after some agreed period of work is performed. I am aware that our ratification of an International Labour Organisation convention resolution prevents us from pursuing that proposition at this time. However I believe that in the national interest we should review that resolution. If it is not working in the best interests of the Australian people surely we have the right, indeed the responsibility, to look at it and to change it if necessary. If we can offer employment at current award rates and if the work needs to be done and is for the benefit of the total community why can we not offer this work to our unemployed? Our municipal and shire councils have many jobs to offer, none of which could be described as jobs involving forced labour. 
The thing that really struck me as rather strange about this debate was the complete absence of any comment on the dignity of labour by members of the Opposition. The honourable member for Hindmarsh agreed that there was such a thing in answer to an interjection I made. I sincerely ask why we differentiate between jobs to the point that we include in the new guidelines a clause which says: 
As to the definition of 'suitable work', the Government has taken the view that while a skilled person should not be expected to accept an unskilled job for a reasonable period, this period should not be indefinite as it can be now. 
Why should we have this clause? I see no difference in the quality of jobs. I believe that if you are working honestly, if you are required to do a job which provides a benefit for the community as a whole, and if you do it to the best of your ability, you have every reason to feel proud of your contribution and should do so. That is called dignity of labour. I repeat that the attitude of Opposition members to this clause is rather strange considering that it is their Party, thenphilosophy and their mandate which best represent the interests of the working man or, as the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  said, the little people. I believe that the Opposition should have made an issue of this point. In fact it argued to the contrary. I disagree completely with the honourable member for Hindmarsh who asserted that 'there is more dignity in labour when one gets more money for it'. That attitude, or that assertion, died soon after the industrial revolution. Unfortunately time prevents me from pursuing this point. 
I agree with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  when he says that most Australians want to work. If we can give unemployed people a worthy job we will remove the unfortunate stigma of those accepting money from the taxpayer for doing nothing. As a community we still firmly support and encourage what is called the work ethic, despite some of the attacks mounted upon it by certain sections of our intelligentsia, sections probably more accurately described as our psuedo intelligentsia. In conclusion, I believe that the words of St Paul are just as true today as they were 2000 years ago: In Australia they simply mean that if you do not work and you can work you do not get fed. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer 
Affairs  (Mr Howard)  for taking the action that has led to the introduction of the Customs Amendment Bill into the chamber. I also take pleasure in associating my Party with this legislation. It is timely, because the procedures for the valuation for duty purposes contained in the present provisions of the Customs Act are unsatisfactory. The system is based upon a valuation at the free on board level on the higher amount as between the actual price paid by the importer and the current domestic value of the goods in the country of export. As the Minister indicated in his second reading speech, this system is currently faced with increasing administrative and legal problems as evidenced by the decisions handed down by the High Court in 1974 and 1975. The major amendment contained in this Bill is concerned with the introduction of what is known as the Brussells Definition of Value. The main feature of this definition is the notional concept that the value for duty of any imported goods is the amount which those goods would fetch on the open market between a buyer and a seller independent of each other. It is a concept for general use irrespective of the terms under which the goods are imported. 
The Bill is not a surprise move on the part of the Minister to cause problems in the Department of Customs or to confuse those involved in the business of importing. One has only to be aware of the discussions, the investigations and the evaluation of the proposal which forms the basis of this Bill to know that it is a timely and much needed piece of legislation. In July 1973 it was publicly suggested that Australia should adopt the Brussels Definition of Value. A Green Paper has been available on this subject since February 1975. Customs officers have been conducting seminars and lectures on the details of the Brussels Definition of Value for importers and importing agents for some months. Consequently I do not believe that there can be any criticism which suggests that this legislation has been introduced in haste. Unquestionably it does entail some major changes in the overall system, but I believe that these will prove to be beneficial in the long run. No change in any system can be achieved without some problems. All honourable gentlemen would, or should, readily accept this. However, I believe that the problems ensuing from the adoption of the Brussels Definition of Value would not be lessened if the introduction of this Bill were to be postponed. Problems will occur because they will stem from the detailed implementation of the proposal; they will not stem from the timing of the introduction of the proposal. The honourable member for 
Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  criticised the timing of the introduction of this Bill; but he certainly did not offer any constructive alternative and 1 do not really believe he has one to offer. 
In its execution the Bill is a very complex piece of legislation. It will require some effort on the part of importers to adapt to the changes as quickly as possible and to understand the details of it. The Brussels Definition of Value forms the basis for the valuation systems of over 90 countries including most of Australia's major trading partners. I urge the Minister to look more closely at the tariff implications of the proposed changes to the Brussels Definition of Value. The committee which prepared the Green Paper on this subject recognised that in particular cases there could be significant variations in the amount of duty payable, leading to adverse effects on local industries and importers. This is extremely serious because in my opinion we must not allow the situation to develop whereby we actually cause hardship in any Australian industry, particularly through our own actions, and then call in the Industries Assistance Commission to consider the problem. The damage will have been done. 
Surely we have sufficient evidence of how Australian industry can suffer from the actions of governments. For example, the 25 per cent tariff reduction by the previous Government brought disaster- yes, disaster- to some sections of Australian industry. We must remember that this type of disaster is measured in the loss of jobs by Australian men and women. I ask the Minister to give an assurance that he will act before any damage is done to any Australian industry as a result of this legislation. If an industry is considered to be non-essential, inefficient or necessary to be closed in the light of the Brussels Definition of Value, I believe that a warning should be given to that industry and alternative arrangements for employment made for the men and women whose jobs would be affected. I cannot emphasise this point too much. I repeat my plea for the Minister to give his assurance that this situation will be avoided. I support the Bill. 
-My question is to the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister inform the House when the Temporary Assistance Authority report on the Australian citrus industry will be completed? 
I thank the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  and I will not take very long in order to allow the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  to speak in this debate. I give notice as a result of representations received from 2 businesses within the Riverina that I have, unfortunately, to bring before the notice of honourable members of this House that I believe the International Harvester Company has not acted in good faith as far as these businesses are concerned. I believe that this is a thing that we must face because there is a way in which business must be done in country areas. I give notice that in the Budget session of the Parliament I intend to pursue this matter with tremendous vigour. 
-You had better get a good defence. 
I associate my Party with this Bill. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  should be congratulated wholeheartedly for the introduction of the Bill into the House. I was hoping that my speech would be a record short speech in such a debate. I must extend my time a fraction to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I find myself very much in sympathy with his comments and his strong recommendation that we think again about the restriction of moneys to this area of activity in the community. Research and development are vital. I think the reports in the media this morning should be sufficient warning of the desperate need for research and development in industry in Australia. I think the words of the honourable member for Port Adelaide are timely. They should be taken note of. Whilst we recognise that the budgetary restrictions are such that there must be cutbacks, this is perhaps one area where we should think very deeply before we are forced into making severe restrictions. I support the Bill. 
-I should very much like to associate my electorate of Riverina with this motion and to be associated with it personally. I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  in the fine tributes that have been made about the former senator, the late Tom Bull. I find difficulty in expressing adequately my thoughts as I have lost a special friend. In the circumstances, words will not properly convey my real feelings. 
Tom Bull was a man of unquestioned integrity. He was a country man and knew the country extremely well. He loved the country and he loved his country. He was a man of God. He was a man who accepted responsibility and he was a man of principle. He was a man who contributed in countless ways to the community. He was, indeed, a leader in every sense of the word. I remember him and I thank him for his friendship, for his wise counsel and for his personal help. He nominated me for preselection by the National Country Party for the seat of Riverina. He was my campaign manager during the recent December 1975 election. I am the richer for having known him and I am indebted to him but, sadly, it is a debt that must now remain unpaid. 
Tom Bull and I joked many times about the fact that we had both begun our formal education in a little country, one-teacher, 14-pupil school at a place called Gobbagaula. The school has long since been closed and demolished but I often think that if such schools could produce men like Tom Bull they must have been grand institutions. 
Tom Bull was always a devoted husband and father. In a world of changing values his family was and is a shining example of all those good things we speak about whenever we refer to the family as the basic unit of society. He was happiest when home with his wife, his sons, his daughters and his beautiful grandchildren. It is because of this wonderful family unity and spirit that I know how much he will be missed by his loved ones. Narrandera, the Riverina and Australia have lost a great man. We are all poorer for his passing. I join with other honourable members in expressing sincere sympathy to his wife and family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon-Prime Minister)- As a mark of respect I suggest that the sitting be suspended until 8 p.m. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. An organisation known as For Those Who Have Less has suggested that Australia should send productive cows to the Indian sub-continent. In view of the tragic waste of livestock under the planned but necessary kill programs now being undertaken or proposed in the States in order to reduce herd numbers, will the Minister examine this suggestion with a view to implementing such a scheme? 
-I should like to say a few words about the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program  Alvin Purple.  I started by saying that I thoroughly endorse the action taken by  Sir Henry  Bland because I believe that it is necessary for him to get support on this occasion. This is quite clearly a matter of who runs the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We have to decide whether it is to be  Sir Henry  Bland and the Commissioners or whether it is to be some of the staff of the ABC. I believe that on this occasion  Sir Henry  Bland and the Commissioners have acted in a correct and proper manner. There can be no doubt about that. I have viewed one program, or part of it. 
-Yes, I would say it is the worst production I have ever seen. It has no redeeming values whatsoever. 
-I watched it with the express intention of being able to speak in this House. Because I watched it I can speak from having a personal view of it. The program is rubbish, and I believe sincerely that the Australian community generally should not be forced even to have a choice of whether they want to look at rubbish or not, particularly from the ABC. If the ABC can spend $500,000 - 
-I hear a voice from the rabbit. 
-I am pleased that the honourable member acknowledges that he knows to whom I was speaking. I am not talking about the cost of carrots; I am talking about a television program shown by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
You would hardly realise that. In my opinion, the question is whether we are going to use the gift of communication we have within the community for the benefit of the community or whether we are going to set about destroying that gift. That program, in its ability to communicate, just does not rate. The jokes are poor, the acting is extremely poor and it certainly does not reach, in my opinion, an acceptable standard to be shown on ABC television. If the commercial television stations or if some other organisation would see fit to purchase the program- I would be extremely doubtful whether anyone would be foolish enought to purchase such rubbish- there may be some argument for it. However, I would suggest that all honourable members become informed on this issue and give  Sir Henry  Bland and the commissioners the support they deserve on this occasion. Those members of the ABC's staff who would see fit to impose a set of extremely poor values on the community should know that they will not get the backing they need and that  Sir Henry  Bland and the commissioners will get the backing on each occasion they see fit to take this sort of action. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of his expressed concern with the drought position in southern Australia, is he aware of criticism that the Commonwealth does not provide financial assistance until the State governments have spent a designated base amount? Would he be prepared to vary this method of payment so that immediate Commonwealth aid could be provided to meet the urgent and serious needs of drought affected primary producers? 
-We have just heard a typical speech from the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I might say that like him, it was a relic from the past. In' his speech on the Budget he tried to condense the Marxist doctrine into 20 minutes. He revealed a chip on his shoulder which sadly makes him falter in his reasoning. He is totally out of touch with reality and he is totally out of touch with the aspirations of the people of this country. Some comments are necessary with regard to the reply to the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  because his reply was extremely poor.  His  reply contained some remarkable contradictions. It contained a massive call to spend the taxpayers' money. It contained page after boring page of the old rhetoric- the rhetoric that perhaps more than anything else helped to plunge this country into economic disaster and, I might add, which helped to destroy the previous Labor Government. 
Put simply, the Budget is a document about money. It is a document about the taxpayers' money. The Budget tells how the Government intends to spend the taxpayers' money in the year ahead. Consequently it must be specific and it must indicate quite clearly what the priorities concerning expenditure are to be. The Budget handed down by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  does these things. It is a responsible Budget, given by a responsible Government. Let us look at the reply by the Leader of the Opposition. It revealed no responsibility. It revealed no true knowledge of money or economic matters and it gave no indication what priorities would be allocated. Sadly it did reveal that the Leader of the Opposition had not learned one single lesson from his days in office as Prime Minister. He would give anything to be popular. He admits this openly. But the people of Australia said in overwhelming numbers on 13 December that they wanted responsibility before popularity. 
-It certainly will not. The Leader of the Opposition should remember that promises that cannot be honoured are far worse than no promises at all. The Leader of the Opposition said that he would increase expenditure, and as far as I can gather from his speech, in no less than 28 areas. Incredibly these increases in expenditure are given supposedly as a constructive criticism of a Budget described by the honourable gentleman as 'irrelevant to the nation's needs'. Where, I ask, would the honourable member cut back or does he still believe that restraint is not necessary? Either directly or by inference, he said he would increase expenditure on schools, roads, health services, sewerage, environment, women and children, Aborigines, the unemployed, public works, construction, shipbuilding, Medibank, State funds, growth centres, pensions, supporting mothers, unemployed school leavers, aged persons homes, destitute and lonely men- that includes most of the Opposition- supporting fathers, migrants, defence, nursing homes, hospitals, school dental services, refuges for women, national highways and last but not least, women. We have heard it all before. Unfortunately we have seen the results of it all before. The people of this country deserve better opposition to a Budget than this sort of impractical, pious claptrap. 
In June this year,  Time  magazine ran an article on Argentina headed 'Approaching the Edge of Chaos' which I would recommend as compulsory reading for the Leader of the Opposition. Let me read some passages from the article because I believe it contains a frightening message for us here in Australia. It states: . . . inflation is currently running at an annual rate of 80 per cent in Argentina, a country, that is approaching the edge of chaos. Isabel Peron, who succeeded her husband as President after his death last July, has been unable to reverse two disastrous trends: the terrorist campaign of kidnaping and murder being waged by rival extremist groups of both the left and the right, and the steady collapse of what was once Latin America's most prosperous economy. 
Recklessness with money is a constant that runs through the 30-ycar history of Peronism. During his first years as President, Juan Peron depleted Argentina's once rich treasury to gain support among the legions of  descamisados  (the shirtless ones), who soon came to expect generous social-welfare spending by the government. Now that tradition of bounty has come to a screeching halt and with it, in the opinion of many observers, the sway of the old-line Peronists who served with  el Lider  in the years of glory. 
I hear the honourable member for Chifley. I know that he is the only man in this House capable of swallowing himself. I hope that before the end of this session he will do just that. One difference I can distinguish between Peron and the Leader of the Opposition when it comes to smashing a country's economy is that the Leader of the Opposition is far superior. In 3 years he almost achieved what it took Peron 30 years to achieve in Argentina. 
-I have told the honourable member before what would happen to him if he went into the Army. Put concisely, the Leader of the Opposition does not understand how to handle money. Put generously- and a pun is intended- he is the last of the free spenders. In his forgettable speech he even contradicted himself in his assessment of Australia- the country that he says would be better governed by him and his Party. This is either an unbelievable gaff by his speech writer or it reveals just how devious his arguments can be. In the first minutes of his speech, when describing the Budget, he said: . . . the Budget is frightening. It serves notice to the world that one of the richest and most fortunate nations on earth cannot afford to give its people the minimum standards of health housing, public transport, urban development and social amenities enjoyed by all the other advanced Western democracies, by all well-managed economies. 
Many dreary minutes and 33 foolscap pages later, when describing the effect of the Budget, he said: 
We do not live in a land of milk and honey. We are not the lotus-land that a former Liberal Prime Minister described. We are no longer a particularly lucky country. Our living standards are falling; in important ways we are a less fortunate and prosperous society than other Western democracies whose national wealth and resources are incomparably less than ours. The effect of this Budget is to drive us further down the road of decline. 
What an incredible and startling about-face. It would appear that the Leader of the Opposition would like to have 20c each way. But to the political punters I give this advice: Do not put money on the present Leader of the Opposition to be around much longer. 
Debate interrupted. 
I have already described the Budget as responsible and from reports I have received in my electorate there is very wide support not only for the Budget but for the way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Ministers are getting on with the job of putting this country back on its feet. I would like to turn my attention to the problem of unemployment. 
The subject matter mentioned to me by the honourable member for Maribyrnong had, I felt, been discussed by this House on 4 different occasions. It is not the prerogative of the Chair to interfere in any way with the business of any member. I want to say as strongly as I can that in the whole of the time that I have been associated with the Chair I do not think anyone can accuse me of deliberately favouring the Government as against the Opposition. On this occasion, I felt that the House had made a decision relating to the subject matter mentioned by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. The honourable member for Riverina rose in his place at the same time as the honourable member for Maribyrnong did. That was the reason I deliberately paused before I called the honourable member for Riverina. When 2 members rise at the same time, the Chair has a discretion as to which member to call. In all those circumstancesand I appreciate that the Chair should never intrude too much in the business of the Parliament- I did hope that if we got on to some other subject matter some degree of common sense might come into the House on both sides. That and that only was the reason, knowing all the facts, why I called the honourable member for Riverina, instead of the honourable member for Maribyrnong. 
-To return to the question of unemployment, how members of the Opposition have the gall to stand in this chamber and make puerile speeches about unemployment amuses me in a very sick sort of way. If anyone looks through the  Hansard  for the 3 years that the Opposition was in office, when this tragic economic situation, which was largely engineered by those who now sit opposite, caused unemployment to reach record levels, he will find hardly one word from these hypocrites, from these running-dogs of socialism and communism. Now, like vultures and jackals they see an opportunity to postulate, to carp and to squeal from the very shoulders of the people - 
As I said, Opposition supporters are now carping from the shoulders of the very people they so callously put out of work. This is disgusting hypocrisy. I will now go back and have a look at the track record of some of these people who are now screaming about unemployment. Let us look at the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)-  the great saviour of the working people. He made one irrelevant speech on 11 February 1975. He asked a question in April 1975 and he has been silent ever since. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  asked one question on 6 March 1973 yet he stands in this House and says he is terribly interested in unemployment. What a tremendous record. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has not said anything in this House about unemployment. 
He is now rising to a point of order. He knows very well this will be the first time he has ever stood up when the word 'unemployment' has been mentioned.  (Quorum formed.)  So this charade of the parliamentary process continues- a charade that was deliberately engineered yesterday by the Labor Party and put into practice today; a charade that has cost the Australian taxpayers probably no less than $30,000 so that honourable members opposite can stand up in this House on absolutely spurious points of order to stop the Parliament from working. You people opposite should be ashamed of yourselves for having wasted the taxpayers' money for 3 years while you were in office and you are trying to do it while you are in opposition. You should be rightfully ashamed of yourselves. 
You should have gone into the Army. Something may have happened to you. 
It is amazing how the questions of unemployment and money seem to do something to the Opposition. 
I hope their consciences are working. 
The honourable member for Blaxland is now standing at the table in this House - 
Let me add that the same honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has not risen in this House once and made a speech or asked a question about unemployment, but he sees fit today to stand up and try to stop the parliamentary processes. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  perhaps the loudest mouthed man in this House, has not made one speech or asked one question on unemployment. You all should be rightfully ashamed. All sensible and thinking people know that the only successful way to reduce unemployment is to reduce inflation and to get the economy moving again. However, for what can be described only as cheap, selfish, gutless political reasons, the Opposition does its best to destroy any signs of returning confidence. It does its best to put down the economy. Despite the actions of members of the Opposition and their communist and left wing friends, the recovery is working. When the recovery is complete, the people of Australia will remember those who did their best to wreck it. 
And the name of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  will be right at the top of the list. 
I am not quite certain of the remark, but would the honourable member for Shortland accept a compromise? He is a rabbit. 

 Honourable members interjecting- 

My words were that the name of the honourable member for Shortland would be at the top of the list; nothing else. I then - 
-I withdraw,  Mr Acting Speaker. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I withdraw the remark that the honourable member for Shortland is a rabbit. I would now like to raise an important matter - 
I would now like to turn to an important matter affecting not only my electorate but also many other important parts of Australia. I refer to drought. This natural disaster - 
-It is wonderful to hear the laughter from the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  when the word ' drought ' is mentioned. 
Drought is undoubtedly the worst of all disasters for country people and farmers. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that Bally Australia Pty Ltd, a manufacturer of poker machines, recently brought an action in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court which resulted in a judgment to the effect that the Poker Machine Licensing Board of the Australian Capital Territory has no power to control the makes of poker machines bought for Australian Capital Territory clubs. I would like to remind honourable members that the Bally organisation was the subject of an inquiry in New South Wales into allegations of organised crime in clubs in which a royal commissioner,  Mr Justice  Moffitt, was specifically asked in term 3 of the reference to inquire whether: 
Matters disclosed in the course  or  the inquiry into terms  I  and 2 provide sufficient reason to determine that the Bally Corporation of America or its subsidiary Bally Australia Pty Ltd by its continued future operations in New South Wales, offers a risk of infiltration of organised crime into or in relation to clubs referred to in term 1. 

 Mr Justice Moffitt's report was published in August 1974. He devoted part VII of his report- 43 pages- to term 3. It constitutes a damning expose of the methods employed by the Bally organisation. I quote a single example from paragraph 3 12. It reads as follows: 
To give another example, great suspicion rests upon the introduction of Bally poker machines into the Blacktown Workers Club and the employment of Sloan, its  president,  by Bally 's distributor. The  president  of the club became a Bally representative for reward. This was one of the few cases where books referred to a 'commission'. There was a claim it was a Christmas bonus, but this is unlikely. This entry, which was seen by the police inquiry, seems to have been lost along the way and reported in a more innocuous way than it deserved. The dealings of Lambert and the employment by him of and the payments to Sloan point strongly to this being a device to place the large number of Bally machines in the club. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe that honourable members should read  Mr Justice  Moffitt's report, and particularly part VII. I also seek leave to have paragraph 316 of that report incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Has the Minister for Post and Telecommunications seen a report in today's Australian which mentions guidelines for the use of 4-letter words in Australian Broadcasting Commission programs? Will the Minister give the House details of these guidelines? Who laid down the guidelines? Will the Minister explain in what circumstances 4-letter words may be used on the ABC? 
I have grown to respect the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  on most occasions. He has not saddened me since I came into this House except for what he has said this evening. It seems to me that he has become completely illogical. To suggest that there is any connection between the events of 11 November last and those events that took place in Hungary some 20 years ago is saddening. 
The honourable member drew a comparison by inference. He spoke about the occasion of 11 November as a day of infamy- the death of democracy- going back to colonial days. This indicates that he does not know what democracy is all about. Twenty years ago in Hungary the people of that country tried democratically to change a system. What happened was that 14 days later 3000 of them were dead. There were 250 000 of them driven from the country that they loved. But the honourable member would be so light in this House as to say that there was some connection by inference with the events of 1 1 November last year. What happened then enshrined democracy in this country. The people of Australia were given that democratic right to vote. It was their vote that solved the problem that arose on 1 1 November. 
-Not the tracks of tanks, as the Minister has said. Let us listen to what a left wing novelist had to say. He is a man recognised in left wing circles as being an authority. This is what he said about the Hungarian revolution - 
-It was Albert Camus. He wrote: 
The affair of  Imre  Nagy in Hungary involved perjury, abuse of trust, contempt of international law, violation of diplomatic and parliamentary privilege, and kidnapping and murders. 
That is what the Hungarian revolt was all about. The people in that sad country tried for 14 days to change a system. They failed. It was the greatest exercise in futility the world has ever seen. We stood back in those days and did nothing. The western world was concerned primarily with the affairs of Egypt and the United States of America was frightened to act unilaterally. She was frightened that the rest of the world would not come to her assistance. These people died in vain. That is why we should remember 23 October 1956. We should join with those 35 000 people who migrated to this country- they have been wonderful migrants- on this commemoration day as they think back to what happened. If the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in 20 years' time can remember the events of 1 1 November and say that that was the day that democracy died in Australia, he really does not know history and for once has has actually given away completely recognition of the facts. I join with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in everything that he said tonight. What he said has a lesson for everyone in this House. I am sad that members of the Opposition have not seen fit to be aware of those lessons. If we do not become aware of them and realise what was lost on 23 October in Hungary I am afraid the world will be a far worse place. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry concerning the continuing plight of dairy farmers in New South Wales. Why has the flow of federal funds for rural reconstruction in the dairy industry in New South Wales ceased when all other States have received additional Commonwealth funds, as is provided for in the Budget? 
-My purpose in rising to speak on this BUI is certainly not to speak in favour of the reduction of the bounty. To the contrary: I do not wish to be associated with it in any way. To find out the reasons why, I believe that we must go back and look at why the bounty was introduced in the first place. It is therefore necessary to go back to the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy BUI that was introduced in 1966. When presenting that BUI to the House the then Minister for Primary Industry had this to say about the bounty: 
This Bill will give effect to the Government's decision to introduce a subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers used in Australia and is further evidence of the Government's policy of promoting primary production in this country. I know that honourable members on both sides of this House recognise the vital importance to our national economy of healthy and growing rural industries, not only to meet the needs of our own people but also because we must continue to expand exports of rural origin and increase our export earnings if we are to be able to maintain both our present rate of development and our standards of living. 
The then Minister for Primary Industry went on to say: 
The purpose of the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers is therefore twofold. In the first place, it will have a cost reducing effect for industries which have been the major users of nitrogen. 
Later he said: 
The second important purpose of the nitrogen subsidy is to encourage the use of nitrogenous fertilisers in newer fields such as cereal growing and pasture improvement. 
I have read the then Minister's statement at that time fairly closely and nowhere can I see that the bounty was intended to assist the actual industry that produces nitrogenous fertilisers in Australia What disappoints me is that in 1976-77 we are going to phase out the bounty because of the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the industry that produces the nitrogenous fertiliser and have not gone back to the reasons for the bounty's introduction in the first place. I ask: What about the farmers? Let us go back to 1966 again and look at what the Australian Labor Party had to say about this matter at the time. The then honourable member for Griffith, in speaking to the BUI, said: 
The Australian Labor Party is known throughout the Commonwealth as being prepared readily to make available its support to any project that will assist our primary producers. 
I will comment upon that later. That was stated in 1966. In the same debate the then honourable member for Lalor said: 
The Australian Labor Party supports the proposal to pay a subsidy on the production of nitrogenous fertilisers. 
Later during the third reading debate the honourable member for Lalor said: 
I have been intrigued and gratified with the consensus expressed tonight. Honourable members are unanimously in favour of the payment of a bounty on the production of nitrogenous fertilizers. 
I repeat: 'unanimously in favour'. I am disap- pointed in the honourable member for Darling  Mr Fitzpatrick).  He began his speech by saying that it was not the intention of the Opposition to vote against this BUI. 
Given the opportunity. The history of the Labor Party as far as subsidies are concerned is deplorable. I turn now to  Public Authority Finance,  a booklet put out by the Aus.tralian Bureau of Statistics covering 1975-76. It states quite clearly the subsidies given to agriculture in 1971-72 and the subsidies given in 1975-76. It covers the years in which the Labor Government was in office. In 1972, the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government, subsidies to agriculture amounted to approximately $237.2m. In 1 975, the last year of Labor Government, those subsidies had been reduced to $50m. Do not let anyone tell you that the Labor Party is committed to this philosophy. The honourable member for Darling is 3 years too late in standing in this House and stating that he is opposed to this sort of thing. 
Unfortunately, the farmers who need this nitrogen fertiliser Will be the losers. Back in 1966-67 the average weekly earnings were $61.70. Average farm incomes, by comparison, were a staggering $123 per week, almost double the average weekly earnings. In 1973, at the time the Industries Assistance Commission report was prepared, average farm incomes were almost at record levels- about $280 plus per week. Next year average weekly earnings for Australians are going to be more than $ 1 70 per week while average farm incomes are going to be down to $126 per week. There will be a 36 per cent drop in average farm incomes in one year. In 1966 when it was decided that a fair subsidy was $80, the cost of those 2 important fertilisers which contain nitrogen, urea and sulphate of ammonia, were $85.20 per ton in the case of urea and $5 1.60 per ton in the case of sulphate of ammonia. The value of the bounty on urea, which contained 46 per cent nitrogen, was $36.80 per ton and the value of the bounty on sulphate of ammonia, which contained 21 per cent nitrogen, was $ 1 6.80 per ton. The price of urea now is $ 1 46.60 per ton and sulphate of ammonia costs $105 per ton. Those figures were obtained today from Brisbane. 
The reduction of the bounty by one-quarter obviously will have a significant impact upon the ability of farmers to pay for nitrogen. That is the story the farmers want to get across in this House. Recently a man recognised in the Victorian Press as being capable of writing a story which told a fairly accurate picture had this to say about the man on the land: 
I know of men who for years have had fire in their bellies. They have been the born radicals, always agin the establishment, the existing policy, or the proposed course of action. But today most of these men are apathetic, tame tabbies beaten not in a fair fight, but by the insidious erosion of despair. 
Or defeated by physical and mental weariness ... by the struggle of working 40 hours a week at an off-farm job they hate, hurrying back to the farm at night and at weekends, struggling to keep it afloat, to preserve at least some of its physical assets m the fast-fading hope that it can't last'. But it can. It has. 
And in the- for many- futile struggle, these men are deteriorating faster than their farms. There is more grey in their hair, lines where there were none before. And they are not laughter lines ... not for men who have long abandoned their cherished beer at the local pub, who have given up smoking, whose hair is hacked off by their wives rather than pay the cost of a haircut. 
-I support the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill. There can be no doubt about the wisdom of bringing this Bill into the House. It has been supported by both sides- by the honourable members for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  McMillan  (Mr Simon),  Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  Although there may have been some technical dispute between the honourable member for Macarthur and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  generally the Bill has been well received and for obvious reasons. No one can question the need for the dairying industry. We must have this industry for the wellbeing of the community. No one would question that fact. The subject has been covered in fairly great detail and I would like to comment upon 2 problems as I see themproblems which may be tackled by the Dairying Research Committee and the Australian Dairy Corporation by way of research and promotional activities. Perhaps these 2 problems are of minor significance to the industry when taken from an overall point of view but I believe that they highlight the total problems of the industry. 
The problems I refer to concern butter- to be precise, its spreadability and packaging. Let me say at the outset that I do not believe there is any substitute for the taste of butter. In my opinion margarine has been chosen by the housewife not for its taste but for its other qualities. First of all it is chosen because of its spreadability. It can be taken straight from the refrigerator and put on to bread. It has a better use in that context. We all know that butter is unspreadable when taken from the refrigerator. It must be warmed first. Even the containers built into refrigerators do not solve the problem. It is a problem with butter. Secondly, I turn to packaging. Margarine is supplied in very attractive containers which in some instances are re-usable. Butter, for as long as I can remember, has not changed in its presentation. We still get, speaking roughly, a pound slab or its metric equivalent wrapped in a piece of paper which in my young days made a suitable insert for a cake tin because it was greasy. But butter remained in that same package until 1976. This detracts from the very good article which is enclosed in that paper. 
There is a third minor point. Diet is becoming of the utmost importance in affluent societies, and the polyunsaturated quality of margarine makes it preferable to butter. Some research has been done and in South Australia there is a product called butterine which is in some way polyunsaturated. Generally speaking, however, butter is not a competitive product on the market today. That is one thing which the Research Committee should look at as a matter of urgency and one also for the promotional side of the Corporation to look into. Years ago we had a promotional campaign which suggested that butter made better lovers. I have not seen too many rushing to the supermarkets to purchase butter for that reason. We must become more serious in the promotion of the product and put it on to the market in a competitive form. If this were done I believe that because there is no substitute for the taste of butter, butter would sell in larger quantities. I suggest that these matters be taken up by the Research Committee and the Australian Dairy Corporation. 
As previous speakers have done, I would like now to range a little wider than the contents of this Bill and to speak briefly about the industry itself. We have heard previous speakers say that the industry at the moment has a problem. The honourable member for Wills stated that the industry had an economic problem. He said- I quote him- 'We are speaking about an industry which is in trouble in an economic sense'. That tells only half the story. The industry has a tragic social problem at this moment. There are families- men, women and children- involved. 
Some of the hardest working people in this country are facing this serious problem right now, and this is what we must remember. Let us forget about the economics of the situation and think about people and the problems facing them. Let us look back at the reasons that these problems exist now. 
We can talk about world over-supply and so on but I would like to turn to the financing of the industry in Australia and to a book put out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, and so is authoratitive, called  Public Authority FinanceFederal Authorities.  It tells a pretty vivid story for those who do not know it, and I hope that those who do not know it will know it as from today. In 1971-72 the subsidies paid to the dairying industry amounted to $39.882m. That is why Opposition members have always cried 'another handout to the cockies'. In 1975-76 the subsidies paid to the dairying industry dropped to $ 1.275m. 
They are almost disastrous. They have dropped from almost $40m to Sim- a drop of 4000 per cent in the subsidies paid to the dairying industry. The Industries Assistance Commission has provided some figures which show that in 1971-72 the subsidies paid to manufacturing industry in Australia amounted to $2,000m. We have all come to learn that tariff protection is a subsidy paid for by the exporter. The rural industries of this country, which in 1971-72 earned 58 per cent of the export earnings of this country, would have paid more than $ 1 , 000m to manufacturing industries in the form of subsidies. 
I no longer want to hear in this House the cry of 'hand-outs to farmers' when these subsidies are being discussed because it is a lie to say that they are hand-outs and those who spread that around are doing a grave injustice to the people on the land. For too long we have heard the subsidies to rural industry being referred to as handouts. They are nothing more than a tariffcompensating factor for those engaged in rural industry. When one looks at the dairying industry and sees that in 1971-72 the subsidies amounted to $40m and that they were progressively cut back by the Labor Government by more than $10m a year one can see part of the true story emerging. If this Government can bring in any legislation to give some compensation to those people who work probably the longest hours of any member of any industry in this country, then I believe that it is bringing in wise and correct legislation. 
I suppose one can say that the present shipbuilding industry has a chance of being retained as an industry. The subsidies from the taxpayers of this country amount to $13,000 per man per annum. I believe that the car industry is currently being subsidised to the extent of $4,000 per annum for each man in the industry. Those are pretty frightening figures. No one denies that the dairymen are efficient. We have all agreed that the dairying industry is an efficient industry. I dare say that if the dairymen were working in the shipbuilding yards we would have the most efficient shipbuilding industry in the world. Some of us are standing up in this House and arguing the point quite strongly for the retention of the shipbuilding industry; yet here we are saying to the people who are the hardest workers in this country: 'Go and find somewhere else to get your money. Work a bit harder. Work longer hours. Get up earlier than 3.30 in the morning and go to bed a bit later than 10 at night'. It is just not good enough. 
I believe that the true story must be told not only in this House but also through every outlet of the media in this country until the message gets home that the people responsible for productivity in this country are currently in grave trouble. Until that message gets home the country will remain in trouble. There is no other way. We are not going to get out of trouble in this country by giving subsidies to the people who are totally inefficient. We are only going to get out of trouble when we recognise that the way out of trouble is to produce more and to sell more. 
I support this Bill because it involves the promotional side of this industry. There is no short term panacea for the industry itself except the provision of financial assistance by this Government to help it over a very difficult period. That is what I believe this House as a whole must recognise. We must look at the industry and its problems in the same way as we have looked at this Bill. I have said that both sides of the House have supported this Bill. But that is not good enough. We cannot get our consciences off the hook simply by coming in here and saying that we support this Bill because it will do much for the industry. It will do only a little and it will do that in the long term. The industry needs assistance in this grave period and that must be given. 
I do not think that I need say any more because the subject has been covered in a fairly detailed form by previous speakers. But I do believe that the research and the promotion must be aligned towards making the product of this industry competitive not only on the home market but also on overseas markets. Recently I saw an Australian Broadcasting Commission program which involved a conversation between a person from a Middle East country and a representative of the Commission. The gentleman from the Middle East country said quite clearly that milk was not being purchased from Australia because it was packaged wrongly, that according to the system of packaging in Australia the containers were not being filled to their cubic capacity as they should have been and that European countries were getting the markets because their milk was packed in a better way. I believe that this is something at which the research committee can have a look. When those things are done I believe that they will offer some long term prospects for the industry. I repeat that I believe that this House must recognise the very serious problem that the dairying industry faces today and that I believe that we all have a responsibility to do something about it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many cadets from (a) the Royal Military College, Duntroon, (b) the Royal Australian Naval College, Jervis Bay and (c) the RAAF Academy, Point Cook, have graduated with recognised university degrees from those establishments in each of the years 1 970 to 1 975 inclusive. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. He would be aware of the serious threat to southern New South Wales and northern Victoria from the plague locusts now spreading rapidly throughout Australia. Will the Minister provide extra federal assistance as a matter of urgency to help prevent the probable total destruction of all pastures and crops in the threatened areas? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does his Department or the Bureau of Agricultural Economics regularly survey the rice industry. 
What information is available on the rice industry. 
What estimates of the economic situation in the rice industry over recent years are available to the rice industry. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Bureau of Agricultural Economics conduct a continuous horticultural survey. 
If so, for how long has it been conducted, what areas of Australia are covered by it, and for what industries and for what years. 
Are there any results available, preliminary, final and published, for the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area and Mid Murray Area for canning fruit, wine grapes and citrus industries for 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
If so, what figures resulted for growers for the following variables, for those industries and for the years available: (a) income from rice crop, (b) income from other crops, (c) total farm receipts, (d) capital value of farm, (i) including and (ii) excluding land, (e) farm costs for materials, (0 labour and services, (g) total cash costs, (h) family labour costs, (i) total costs (j) depreciation, (k) net farm income, (1) return to capital and management and (m) return to capital and management excluding land. 
) If industry results are not available for these industries, when are they likely to be available. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. The disease known commonly as eucalyptus dieback is currently ravaging many of the forest lands in practically every State in Australia. Is the Minister aware of the potential for disaster to Australia's natural forests inherent in this disease? If so, will he inform the House what action he proposes to take in order to assist the States in bringing this disease under control? 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 13, I shall move: 
That this House notes the urgency of problems associated with the management and control of water in the River Murray Valley and the River Murray Basin. 
Marine Environment 
I rise tonight to remind honourable members that on 
Monday next, 25 April, Australia will celebrate Anzac Day. In the five minutes I have in this adjournment debate I would like to try and put into words some of the things which make Anzac Day so special for the true Australian. The day enables us, as a nation, to pay tribute to those men and women who did not return from wars, and the important thing is that we pay this tribute as free men and free women. Perhaps more importantly we are free men and free women because of the sacrifices made by those men and women we honour on this occasion. We should not, indeed must not, forget them. 
There can be no suggestion that by remembering these men we are perpetuating a war spirit. No one who has actually experienced war speaks in favour of the act of war itself. No one who has lost a friend in battle would ever want to face the same horror and grief a second time, and yet some have had to do just that, and by so doing their detestation of war has not been lessened. I invite the critics of Anzac Day to go along to the ceremonies which will be conduced on Monday as I know that they will not witness a war spirit, a love of war or a celebration of killing.  Mr Acting Speaker,  they will only see groups of men and women, many sadly getting on in years, yet marching and participating with pride- a pride derived from the knowledge that they were once able to serve their country in an hour of need. On this day they gather to think back, to mourn and to remember mates who did not return. I believe we still owe them, and particularly those who have died, a tremendous debt of gratitude and thanks. We owe them this debt because the simple fact must be recognised that unless they had served we would not be lucky enough to be here now, as I have said, as free men and free women. 
We are all aware that the tradition or spirit of Anzac was born on that catastrophic day 62 years ago when thousands of young Australians joined New Zealanders and Englishmen to take part in the abortive landings on Gallipoli. Nearly 1000 Australians died during the initial assault. All of them were intelligent, thinking, reasoning men who were serving their country by choice. What they did not want to do on that day was to die, but if it it had to be, they would die as menand they did- fighting for a cause called freedom. Since that first awful day in 1915, more than 120 000 Australians have given their lives in many parts of the world for the same cause and in so doing they have perpetuated the spirit of Anzac. 
Names and battles such as the Somme, Pozieres, Menin Gate, Lone Pine, Tobruk, Crete, Kokoda, Coral Sea, Malaya, Singapore, Borneo, 
Kapyong and Long Tan, to mention but a few, are names not remembered because they were remarkable military victories but because they were all places where some of the finest men this country ever produced died whilst serving as soldiers, sailors and airmen. 
If we deny that these men were fighting for a cause we do them a terrible injustice. If we believe that we should forget them and their cause we really do not deserve the right of choice, the right of free men. Indeed,  Mr Acting Speaker,  if we should ever forget them and their cause we will deserve to lose the right of choice and the right of free men. Therefore on Monday, let us ali pay tribute to these fine Australians. Let us be proud of the fact that these men were our men. Let us be humbled by the sacrifices made by them. Above all let us cherish the spirit and he tradition of Anzac, and then perhaps in some way, by remembering them and their deeds, we can say, they did not die in vain. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. By way of background I refer him to an Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Horizon 5  shown yesterday, Monday 23 May. In that program it was stated that some Australian meat processors are providing butchers with second-grade cow beef and labelling it prime rump steak. This is forcing butchers to import quality beef from New Zealand. Is the Minister aware of this situation? Does he know the names of these meat processors? If so, will he inform the House, and, consequently, the unfortunate Australian beef producers, of the action he proposes to take in this matter? Will he also consult the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to see whether action against this unlawful practice can be initiated under the provisions of the Trade Practices Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 9 April 1977: 
Are war pensioners, under the category of 100 per cent general rate, entitled to (a) all medical and hospital treatment under repatriation provisions, (b) the care of either their local medical officer or a specialist who has agreed to treat repatriation patients, (c) admission to intermediate or private accommodation at a country public hospital, if deemed desirable and available for occupancy, and (d) full exemption from payment of the Medibank levy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
Are there exceptions under repatriation provisions which refer to conditions for which treatment is available under third party and workers' compensation or where war pensioners are entitled to recover or receive the cost of medical treatment by way of damages or compensation from another person. 
Is it a fact that in the event of an injury for which no other party was liable, and any liability was their own, they would receive treatment under repatriation provisions. 
Is it also a fact that they do not need any private health insurance cover and that, if they are satisfied with repatriation provisions, they (a) would not be liable to a means test at a public hospital which would otherwise mean that they would be personally liable for whole or partial payment of medical treatment and (b) would not have to make a claim to the nominal defendant. 
The Minister for Primary Industry would be aware of the current bans being maintained by the Storemen and Packers 
Union on rice exports through the ports of Melbourne and Portland. The honourable member who is interjecting should put a ban on his tongue. The Minister would be aware also that these bans are directly threatening the jobs of 600 rice industry workers and that if the bans are not removed they will cripple one of Australia 's most successful rural industries. Will the Minister, through consultation with his colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, investigate this dispute with a view to taking action against the Storemen and Packers Union under the provisions of the Trade Practices Act? 
I rise to speak on behalf of all country people and to put forward a number of points which I believe are critical in this debate. Before I start to do that, I must say that I have been totally depressed by the contributions, or the lack of contributions, from members of the Opposition. They have used bluster, emotion, invective, threat and the greatest pack of red herrings ever dragged into this House in speaking to a very important issue. Almost every Opposition  speaker  has said that they have not had sufficient time to prepare for this debate. That is absolutely nonsense. Honourable members opposite have had 18 months to prepare for this issue. They know it and they also know that they are in the greatest bind of all time. They were caught and they were surprised. They were hoping that this Bill- the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill- would be tabled in the Parliament, and that then the issue would be taken to the streets so that they could get some support before they stood up in the House to advance the arguments on behalf of the Opposition. Tonight, they are not quite certain what to say. So they have put forward some of the worst arguments I have ever heard. 
I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  make one of the worst speeches he has ever made in this House.  His  opinion of public servants, and they are important in this issue, was expressed quite clearly on 26 April 1977 when he said in the House: 
If the Australian Public Service is prepared to pay the extra taxes needed to extend the superannuation benefits to everybody else, I am all for a generous superannuation scheme for every Australian man and woman in the work force. If they are not prepared to do that, I will oppose any proposal that is put forward by public servants to put them in a better position than the public they are supposed to serve. 
That was the hypocritical statement made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh this year. 
-I withdraw the word 'hypocritical',  Mr Speaker.  Let us look at the facts relating to the Redfern Mail Exchange. We have heard the members of the Bleeding Hearts Club in the Opposition trying to describe the inadequate and terrible working conditions of those who work at that mail exchange. According to the Commonwealth Bureau of Statistics figures just printed, the average weekly earnings were $198.70 a week. These workers in the Redfern Mail Exchange have imposed bans because they cannot earn on average an extra $20 a week with overtime. They are prepared to put the whole community at ransom for $20 a week. I represent eople whose incomes this year will average 199 a family a week. The difference is that the employees at the Redfern Mail Exchange are expected to work fewer than 40 hours a week for $198 plus $20 overtime, which is an average of $218, whilst the fellow in the country is expected to work 90 hours a week, or even more, for less. Also, from the money that they earn for working those 90 hours a week they have to pay the taxes which pay the wages of those people in the mail exchange at Redfern. Yet the Opposition expects the average person in this country to stand up and support it in this case. I suggest that everyone in the country and every member of the National Country Party, would like the opportunity to speak in support of this Bill. 
-Yes, to a man. The National Country Party members represent not just the rural community, but the total community in the country, including trade unionists. The whole community is totally in favour of this legislation. That is why the Opposition members are worried. They have read the results of the opinion polls and know full well that the great majority of people are sick and tired of the type of industrial strife that is being caused by a minority. These people intend to stand this situation no longer. Those causing the industrial strife are communists and left-wingers. Again, this is why certain individuals from the Opposition have chosen not to speak in this debate. They are not quite certain of what to say. They do not want to offend those people back in their electorates from whom they need support in the next election. The following appeared in a newspaper recently: 
A working-class hero is something to be. 
That referred to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I heard the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  speak about the 'little people'. This concerns one representative of the 'little people'. The article reads: 
But he has now moved to an expensive architect designed house on the edge of the only lake in Adelaide, just as Keating lives on the only hill in Bankstown ("the new Labor materialists," they're called). He's a bit of a gourmet and wine buff; at a famous party he got three dozen vintage reds up from his wine cellar, got some casks of prawns from the fishermen at Port Adelaide- 
I was just trying to reconcile the statement made by the honourable member for Sydney to the effect that they were the representatives of the 'little people' with that article about one representative of the 'little people', namely, the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I could go on and give further illustrations of the fact that the Opposition has quite clearly lost contact with the 'little people' of this country. Clearly, this legislation will be adopted readily by this House. It will be heralded as the greatest thing the Government has done since it came to office. My only major criticism of this Bill is that it comes 1 8 months too late; it should have been the first Bill tabled in the House after we came to office. 
It is important that I mention that this evening on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news broadcast this matter was reported in an interview with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  That news item was followed by no fewer than six people speaking against the Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations and the purposes of this Bill. That was the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission's fairhanded treatment of this issue on the night this Bill was tabled in the Parliament! How can we expect the people of this country to gain some understanding of the contents of this Bill if the matter is treated in that way? 
It was interesting to note also that  Mr Slater,  when commenting on the actions taken by this Government, lost all track of union matters and quickly got onto a political description of the economy. Do not let it be said that there are no political overtones in the work bans imposed at the Redfern Mail Exchange. Those people are well aware of what they are about. They seek to impose industrial anarchy upon this country because they are controlled by the extremists in the union movement. They Will stop at nothing to make the better union members in any union kotow to their desires. Unfortunately, not one member of the Opposition has stood in this House tonight and condemned the action of these employees at the Redfern Mail Exchange or members of any other union where the left wing or the communists are in control. The Australian electorate will clearly see this for what it is. 
I return now to the subject of the country people and why they are so upset. They expect their public servants to provide a service, for which they are employed. This Bill seeks to give no more power to the employer- in this case the Minister- than to any other employer in industry. It seeks to give the Minister the right to say to a particular employee if he is not providing the service that is required for his pay that he will be stood down or will receive no pay. The Opposition can say nothing against that principle. However it will not support it. Yet that is exactly what this Bill proposes. If we extended the argument of the Opposition the Opposition would be against any provision in any Bill that provided a sanction against the law breaker. Why are unionists to be outside the law? The Opposition spokesmen have not answered that. It is a simple matter of a principle that has been established since the work ethic came into being; that is, if one does not work one should not get paid. 
-It is about time the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  did us all a favour and swallowed himself. I have asked him to do that on a number of occasions. He has the mouth to perform the feat. If we do not accept this principle in industrial relations there will be no end to industrial disputes in this country. This Bill does no more than provide the Minister with the power to say to a particular unionist who is not in the Public Service providing a fair day's work for a fair day's pay: 'I am prepared to stand you down because of the action you have taken. ' 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented in an article in the  National Times  of 19-24 September entitled: 'Bush Crisis: What's Being Done for Farmers'. My attention has been drawn to part of a paragraph which states: 
Later, in the parliamentary dining room, the Country Party member for Riverina, John Sullivan, joined the fray and verbally attacked Fraser over the Government's failure to help rural producers. 
That is not true. I did speak to the Prime Minister but the conversation was casual, amicable and brief. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Minister's statement of 22 September concerning aid to the beef industry. In that statement the Minister spoke of the need to improve the immediate cash flow to beef producers. He said: 
The scheme will apply from tomorrow, 23 September 1977. It will take some weeks to finalise administrative arrangements for the lodgement of claims. 
When can the beef producers actually claim for assistance and when can the Minister provide further details concerning the scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. He will recall answering questions yesterday about the threatened disruption of uranium exports by industrial action. Is the threat of disruption confined to uranium? If other commodities are involved, to what extent are they involved? 
-My purpose in joining the debate is perhaps to change its direction slightly. Much has been said about actual expenditure on defence items. In my opinion we have spent far too much time trying to relate defence to the expenditure of dollars and cents. I would like to spend a few minutes on what I believe to be the key weapon in war or in peace, that is, man- the serviceman or servicewoman, whether he be a Regular, a Reserve- Citizen Force- soldier or perhaps even the school cadet. In this regard I believe that this place has been remiss over many years in using the Services as no more than a political football. The serviceman has been seen as a vote rather than as the very key to the survival of this country in any future emergency. I believe that we have got to the point where we have denigrated the serviceman to the extent that he does not even appear on the streets of this country in uniform unless he is ordered to do so. That trend began, I believe, in the 1960s and it is quite obvious now. I believe honourable members have to go no further than across the waters of Lake Burley Griffin to the defence headquarters to see how few of the men are in uniform. It is up to this Parliament- both sides of this Parliament- to make moves to give back to the serviceman his position in society. After all, he serves in the noblest of professions. He is the one who when required will give the supreme sacrifice for his country. I think some of us have tended to forget that. 
The Regulars unquestionably bear the brunt of the anti-Service feeling. Yet they have within their ranks the traditions which are valued by the total community. Some of those traditions, commencing with the uniform itself, should be displayed and should be seen. I think we should take steps to make certain that the very impressive Beating the Retreat ceremony is put on more often. It would cost nothing to have this ceremony performed and we would get great benefit from it. The only time I have seen servicemen of late has been in guards of honour for Her Majesty, a parade for Her Majesty and in some guards of honour for visiting dignitaries. On no other occasion have I seen them. Let us take the opportunity to get the serviceman out and give him the backing that he requires. Unless we do this the Defence Force itself will dwindle in importance and it will not be long before those responsible for expenditure on defence will start to question even whether we should put out any money at all for defence. That would be a very sad and sorry day. 
I would like to spend a couple of minutes on the Reserve Army- the citizen soldiers who are perhaps the most neglected part of our defence structure. They are neglected because they are seen as second best when in fact they are a vital part of our defence. I have heard trite words, alegedly of wisdom, come from a great variety of people talking about the one army we have in Australia. Unfortunately the truth is that we have neglected the Reserve Army- the citizen force. There is no explanation for this. There is no expenditure involved in giving a new set of priorities to the Regular forces. If we believe that there is no threat to this country in the short term, it is quite possible and feasible then that we should take the steps to say to the Regular Army that its priority now is to bring the Reserve up to its maximum efficiency. We should see that postings from the Regular Army to the Reserve are given priority. I believe that all officers should at some stage serve with the citizen force. There is too much of an elitest approach taken by the Regular services, but that approach will only be taken while we in this Parliament allow it to be taken. We have to lay down quite clear guidelines, in my opinion, to the Defence Force chiefs so that they know exactly what their role is in this regard so that they alter existing priorities. Up to this stage we have seen fit not to do so. I believe it is to the regret of all of us. Unless we do this the Reserve itself will not ever become an efficient force because it does not have the capacity from within to survive in a modern defence set-up. The expertise must come from the Regular Army. I press upon the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  that this cause is an urgent one and one we must face. The cadets are part of the expenditure under the Defence vote, but if honourable members were to watch the cadets today they would assume that we do not spend anything on them. 
-I do not believe the length of hair is really pertinent to the debate. Last Saturday I attended a cadet parade at a school in Goulburn that I suppose one could call a local school. When the principal of the college was speaking he said: 
I believe it is the prerogative of the authorities to supply us with the basic equipment we need. 
Brother Mazorini said that. He also said: 
This applies to training stores, bivouac supplies and personal equipment. 
Before that he had said:  the last full ceremonial parade of the unit had been that at which it disbanded under instructions from the Labor Government in 1 975 . . . most of the boys on parade were wearing ' hand-me-downs ' from that occasion. 
That they had been able to continue to use the uniform was a tribute to the laundering and repairing done by their mothers. 
I believe that we in this House should feel ashamed. The reply given by Defence was that in fact in 1975 the cadet corps was disbanded, and an Army spokesman said: 
The decision to disband the cadets in 1975 caused an interruption in the procurement procedures with a consequent shortage of stock holdings. 
All available clothing and equipment has been issued to cadet brigades for distribution to units. The Army is making every effort to correct the shortfall. The situation will not be fully rectified until the second half of 1 978. 
So from 1975 to 1978 we have an Army which is allegedly geared for war saying that it will take all that time to rectify a situation of issuing some uniforms to cadets. 
-It is an outrageous situation. 
-I am blaming the approach of honourable members in this place for allowing that situation to occur. We have said that we would reintroduce the cadet corps and having done that we must give them backing. 
-I am afraid that having witnessed this parade and seen the cadets doing their best, I would say our efforts so far are not good enough. There is a long way to go before we can stand up in this House and say that not only have we reinstituted the cadet system, we have also given the cadets the backing which will enable them to perform the functions we hope they will perform. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the orders of the House of 10 March 1977I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I join this debate for different reasons from those of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  In fact, they are different from those of all members of the Opposition and, in most cases, supporters of the Government. I say at the outset, that I have notning to say against the work done by the distribution commissioners. To put it bluntly, if we give a group of men a stupid task we must expect a stupid answer. The commissioners were given a stupid task in 1974-75. They were given a stupid task this year. Nothing will change that situation. The arguments tonight have been put forward by those who see political variations in the boundaries drawn by the commissioners. After all, what is this game but a political game? If we cannot accept the decision of the umpire we should not play in the match. My position has not changed with regard to the redistribution proposals put forward either by the Labor Party or on this occasion. I quote from  Hansard  'in 1975 when I said: 
I have a great responsibility on this occasion that outweighs any of my personal considerations. I must voice, on behalf of the people of my electorate, the strongest possible objection to the redistribution proposals. I am speaking on this occasion with almost absolute support from my people. I have practically every single member of the electorate of Riverina on my side. They are appalled at, they are against, and they have expressed their disgust, at the redistribution proposals. 
In 1974 1 won the seat of Riverina from a Labor Minister. 
That was the Minister for Immigration,  Mr Al  Grassby. I do not consider the task of winning the new seat of Riverina in 1977 to be as daunting as the task in 1974. 1 have also spoken out strongly in the Press against these proposals. I do not think I will be saying anything new tonight, but I wish to say a few words about this catch cry 'one vote, one value '. I hope that I will speak the truth about that catch cry and that honourable members will listen to it. It will be their decision, their choice, whether they are prepared to live with it. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in speaking in this debate earlier this afternoon talked about one vote one value and mentioned the United States as being an example of where that catch cry is practised. I refer him to the record. It is clearly stated in a hand book from Congress in the Umted States of America that the state of South Dakota has an electorate population of 333,000. New York has an electorate population of 468,000. It is 40 per cent larger. The United States also recognises that there are States which cannot adequately be represented under the normal system. They are called 'at large' States. The variance between those at large States is interesting. In Alaska, for example, the electorate population is 302,173. The District of Columbia has a total electorate population of 756,510 electors. That is more than 100 per cent variation. At that stage this afternoon I was forced to withdraw the remark I passed about the Leader of the Opposition, that he was lying. 
The principle of one vote one value in this country must be considered at a Federal level. When we consider these points in the debate it is necessary that the truth is told. Let me take as examples the States of New South Wales and Tasmania. People should be aware that the population of New South Wales is 4,800,000 and the population of Tasmania is 402,804. There are 43 divisions in New South Wales and 5 divisions in Tasmania. There are 3,059,402 electors in New South Wales and 262,009 electors in Tasmania. In New South Wales the quota for a Federal electorate is 71,149 and the quota in Tasmania is 52,402. It seems to me at the outset from looking at the quotas that there is a discrepancy in the principle of one vote one value. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  had the temerity to suggest that this situation was written into the Constitution. 
Let us look at more of the figures to see exactly how the situation works agamst people in the more populous States- I have taken New South Wales as an example-and how it works to the tremendous disadvantage of people living in country areas. There are ten senators from New South Wales and ten senators from Tasmania. In the State Parliament in New South Wales there are 99 representatives in the lower House and 60 in the upper House. In Tasmania there are 35 in the lower House and 19 in the upper House. I want to come now to the revenue sharing arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States under the federalism arrangements which have ensured that the States have been given the greatest amounts of money in the history of Federation. This year New South Wales received $ 1,327.4m and Tasmania received $2 14.6m. In local government tax sharing New South Wales received $60.3m and Tasmania received $5.3m. I mention at this stage that the Minister for Health in the New South Wales State Government has more money in his portfolio than there is in the total budget in the State of Tasmania. For that total budget in the State of Tasmania there are 54 members of Parliament administering less money than the Minister for Health in New South Wales administers. 
In Tasmania there is a total area of 68,331 square kilometres. In the Riverina, the electorate which I am to continue to represent, there is an area of 251,777 square kilometres, Four Tasmanias, in area, would fit comfortably into the seat of Riverina. In that area in Tasmania there is a total of 69 State and Federal representatives. The figures are quite frightening. The ratio of the total number of State and Federal members to the number of people in Tasmania is one to 5,800. So every 5,800 people in Tasmania have a State or Federal member of parliament. In New South Wales the figure is one member for every 22,000 people. 
That is called 'one vote one value'. It is interesting to speculate on why both major parties accept this situation. It must be very obvious to anyone who thinks about the matter even in a shallow way. In terms of Federal representation, if one wants to put it on that level, Tasmanians have a Federal member of the House of Representatives, or senator, for every 24,000 people. In New South Wales the ratio is one for every 60,000. So much for one vote, one value. 
Why does this situation remain and why have the two major parties done nothing about it? That is where the truth must come out. It is reasonable to suggest that if one can convince 262,000 voters one can win 10 seats in the Senate and five in the House of Representatives. Let me go on record as saying that that is why nothing has been done about the Tasmanian situationalthough I am not suggesting for one moment that Tasmanians deserve any less representation than does anyone else. What I am suggesting is that the two major parties have not the political courage to recognise that the other States need more representation, that those who are suffering as a result are the people who live in country areas. 
We heard the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  say tonight that, as a result of this proposal, five miles would separate parts of his electorate. That is the most incredible statement I have heard in a debate of this nature. He went on to say that there was a lack of community of interest, in that those 5 miles brought in a new suburb. I suggest that the honourable member come to some of the larger electorates, come to my electorate. He would find not just two or three schools but in excess of 200, and that a distance of 5 miles would be considered a normal walking distance; that one would be lucky in most cases if there were even a road. It is impossible seriously to come into this House and suggest that what is now apparent to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has not in fact been apparent for a long time to everyone in the country areas. The country people will be disfranchised, will lose their representation. 
It is interesting to note that the Premier of New South Wales proposes to re-arrange the seats in the Upper House of that State, reducing their number from 60 to 45 and that most of that loss will be felt in the country areas. This is a ridiculous situation. We stand here and argue small political points because we have not the courage to consider what representation should be all about. 
The time lost in travelling through a country electorate cannot be regained by giving a member an aeroplane or any other form of rapid communication. In this new seat of Riverina, as any honourable member from a large electorate would know, time spent in travelling is time completely wasted. One cannot represent voters adequately when one spends up to 30 weeks of working time behind the wheel of a car or sitting in an aircraft That inadequacy must be redressed by extending a degree of tolerance, and we have asked that a tolerance of 20 per cent, for what it does, be accepted. It is not a political move, such as we have seen on the part of Labor supporters to win votes through a variation in the boundaries of electorates. It is designed merely to provide representation to those who live outside major capital cities. However, it is quite apparent that the two principal political parties do not intend to agree to it. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  has not spoken in this debate. In my opinion he has not done so because he believes in the principle that he must get big or he will be put out. That is not a good enough reason to enable one to speak adequately on behalf of country people. I do not believe that in this chamber we should suggest that the philosophy or policy of a party is all that is required to get a member in this House; that any member from any seat comes in here purely to be a number, and participate in votes. Unfortunately, there are many honourable members sitting on both sides of the House now who are no more than just numbers when divisions are called. What people have to say on issues is what representation is really about. What chance has a member in a country electorate spread over hundreds of thousands of square kilometres to be able to get the idea, the consensus, of what his people want put in this chamber. Surely that is what representation is all about I was appalled tonight when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  got off this subject while speaking and tried, for cheap political motives, to attract the Aboriginal vote in Kalgoorlie. Then he switched to the Maltese and Cypriot vote. He is very clever at trying to arrange the vote of the minority groups in this country but he misses the main point. He did this before the 1975 election quite adequately when he was seen once with the Vietnamese orphans. He was never seen with them again. Recently he took his grandson to see the Australian cricketers, purely to get votes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
