I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Last year, the Government took a number of detailed decisions on the powers and functions of the proposed Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. This Corporation was to be sst up to carry out on a continuing basis the engineering consulting services which the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority had been providing for some years. I now have pleasure in submitting to the House a Bill to give effect to these decisions. Construction of the Snowy Mountains scheme will be completed in 4 years time. As 
I feel there is a danger of our taking the scheme for granted, 1 propose to spend a little time in drawing the attention of the House to the great effort which has been entailed in reaching this situation and the benefits flowing therefrom. 
Less than a year ago the Jindabyne pumping station was officially opened and this completed the work of diverting the Upper Snowy waters to the west of the Great Dividing Range. The huge Murray power stations were completed several months ago and are now producing electricity from these diverted waters. We have now spent over $700m on the scheme and some $100m will be required to complete it and the last and largest .of all the projects, namely the Talbingo Dam, its power station and all its appurtenant works, lt has taken 20 years to reach this stage in the project. In the initial years, expenditure on the scheme was small but this Parliament gave its full financial support and as a result expenditure reached major proportions. Since 19S6 annual expenditure has never been less than $30m. In fact it has generally exceeded $40m, and in 1960 reached $56.5m. By any yardstick this is sustained massive support on an unprecedented scale. 
The result in physical terms has been tha construction of a scheme which both in concept and execution has received world acclaim. The power stations have supplied valuable peak load power to the New Sorb Wales and Victorian systems to the benefit of the industries and domestic consumers of those States. The electricity has been provided at costs which are low for a peak load scheme. In the last financial year the charge for power was $14 per kilowatt and for energy lc per kilowatt hour. The facility with which the hydro stations can be brought on or off line together with the interconnection provided between the New South Wales and Victorian systems has enabled those States to make considerable savings in the quantity of reserve plant they would otherwise have had to maintain. 
Apart from electricity the scheme has by the diversion and regulation of the headwaters of the streams in the Snowy Mountains area provided valuable additional water for irrigation in the arid western plains. No charge is made by the Snowy scheme for this water. In the Mumimbidgee Valley the additional supplies will enable the virtual doubling of the area under irrigation. In the Murray Valley thousands of acres of additional land are being irrigated and existing irrigation schemes now have more water and are worked more intensively. The scheme has provided greater security of supplies of water to the Mumimbidgee and Murray irrigation areas. This was demonstrated dramatically during the recent record drought when the scheme was called upon to make special additional irrigation releases. The releases made towards the end of 1968 irrigation season when the Hume and Burrinjuck reservoirs were empty were of critical importance in saving irrigated crops and sustaining production. 
None of these physical results (which I have necessarily indicated so briefly) have come about by accident or by the adoption of ad hoc measures. They have arisen first from the massive financial support I mentioned earlier and secondly the scientific manner in which the project has been tackled. The scheme is unique in Australia's history both in its size and in its 25-year construction time. This required the setting up of highly expert groups in the form of investigation, design, scientific services and contract supervision staffs. No other project in Australia has been, or is likely to be, big enough to support the cost of the specialist staffs which the Snowy scheme needed. 
These staffs have more than paid their way in effecting major savings in the cost of the works. In recent years they have been in a position to provide similar valuable services towards the problems of major engineering projects in Australia and overseas. .Fees from such services already amount to $3m a year. It is this most important component of the Snowy which we propose to retain. The specialist staffs will form the basis of the engineering consulting Corporation. 
Some sections of the community would have liked us to retain the whole of the Snowy organisation intact to undertake major water development measures throughout Australia in much the same way as it has tackled the Snowy scheme. The truth is however that there is no other scheme in Australia of the same size and homogeneity as the Snowy. The Snowy has been geared to spend annually, sums equivalent to the total expended by all States on rural water development measures. While the States' total might with good reason be increased, there is no case for the Snowy to move into this field so as to push the States out. The Snowy can however provide valuable services in investigation and design work to the States which they have not geared themselves to undertake. Additional technical assistance will also be available to supervise major contracts on nonrepetitive jobs which form difficult peaks in State works programmes. 
On the other hand we are conscious of the growing importance of the services of local private engineering consulting . organisations, lt is not the Government's intention to set up an organisation which will compete directly in all fields with Australian engineering consultants. We consider that most of the jobs the Snowy will undertake will be those which up to now have been done by foreign consultants or will be in fields not adequately served at present by Australian consultants. 
There is a further and very important field, namely overseas work. Already the Snowy has established a favourable reputation in South East Asia in the planning and construction of works and the training of local personnel in the operation and maintenance of works equipment. For the most part these activities have been financed by aid funds provided by Australia. In addition, the Snowy is registered with the relevant United Nations agencies and the Asian Development Bank for consultancy work. 
As a result of the status it has already attained, I have no doubt that it will continue to attract a considerable volume of work overseas. We can look forward therefore to the Snowy acting not only as an implementer of some aspects of our foreign policy but also as a saver and an earner of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange earnings flow not only from consultancy fees but often from consultants specifying goods and equipment available from their own countries. These activities will not only benefit the Snowy and Australian industry generally; they will also benefit Australian private consultants. For example, the Snowy recently undertook the investigation, design and construction of the Sandakan-Ranau Road in Sabah. It has sublet the work on the design and construction of seven bridges on the road to an Australian engineering consultant. This policy will continue and will enable Australian consultants who are to some extent unknown overseas to increase in status and become established in new areas. 
To give effect to the policy considerations I have outlined, the Bill provides that the Snowy may carry out a broad range of consultative activities in Australia and its Territories in a number of engineering fields. Within these fields it will not be permitted to act as a constructing authority in its own right, as it has in the Snowy area. It will investigate and design engineering works and supervise or give advice on contracts entered into . by its clients. The principal engineering fields in which it will operate may be broadly described as those relating to the development of water and power resources and for underground works. 
Apart from work for the Commonwealth it is expected that the Snowy will continue to do a lot of work for State governments and their instrumentalities. It is expected also that it will continue to work for private organisations, such as the large mining companies. In work for private organisations, however, it will only be able to act when commissioned by private consultants. There is some doubt that the Commonwealth can effectively empower the Snowy to do work in the States and accordingly the State governments have been invited to introduce legislation matching that of the Commonwealth. It would be contrary to the public interest to stop the Snowy's current activities in the States until the State parliaments have passed enabling legislation. Such work will accordingly be allowed to continue to completion. I will also authorise the Snowy undertaking new work in the States conditional upon the relevant Premiers giving an undertaking to introduce matching legislation as soon as possible. 
So far as overseas work is concerned, the Snowy will be authorised to work in a somewhat wider field. It will be able to act as a constructing authority and supervise construction of projects in the fullest sense of this term. The categories of projects it may undertake will be those in which it will engage in Australia, plus works of a type previously undertaken by the Snowy and such additional types as I consider to be appropriate to its specific skills. We would also expect the Snowy to continue to use and collaborate with Australian consultants in appropriate circumstances. 
It will be necessary for the Snowy to obtain my approval before undertaking any job. In this connection, I shall have available the advice of a consultative committee which is to be formed. The Committee will advise me on whether it would be appropriate for the Snowy to accept particular commissions. For works within Australia, the committee will comprise four persons, two of whom will be appointed from private engineering sources: for work outside Australia a further two persons will be added. 
The Corporation will be similar in form to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority in that it will be headed by a corporation sole with two statutorily appointed assistants. It will operate as a commercial organisation, will pay Commonwealth income tax and be expected to make a reasonable return on its capital. 
Detailed provisions of the Bill deal with the appointment of staff, the preservation of rights of staff taken over from the Authority and machinery for the transitional problems of the new organisation. The terms and conditions of employment of Corporation officers will be determined by the Corporation subject to the approval of the Public Service Board. I shall have power to determine the total number of staff. 
So much for the framework of the present measure. I should, however, explain that with the setting up of the Corporation there will be three organisations acting in the Snowy area. First, there will be the Authority, which still has some  4  years of major work ahead to complete the scheme. After its completion, certain continuing functions need to be carried out in accordance with the terms of the Snowy Mountains Agreement, but they will be handled by a small number of officers. Secondly, there will be the body which is the subject of this Bill, namely the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. As far ahead as we can see it will be centred in Cooma to enable full use to be made of existing specialist facilities. Finally, there will be the Snowy Mountains Council, which is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the completed works of the Snowy Mountains Scheme. This organisation was set up under the Snowy Mountains Agreement and has been functioning for some 10 years. The Government plans to provide it with funds and staff on a more self-contained and formal basis than exists at present, and in due course this will be the subject of a separate Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
Recently, I met a deputation from the Local Government Border Rivers Project and we discussed this matter at some length. The deputation was introduced by my colleague, the honourable member for Maranoa. This project or series pf proposals has a relatively long history. I would hate to take up the time of the House in recounting this history at this stage. Suffice to say,  Mr Speaker,  after some years agreement was reached between the governments of Queensland and New South Wales and those governments have legislated for such an agreement. Subsequent to that, two firm proposals have emerged, one of which is up for consideration at the moment and is supported jointly by the two State governments. It had been submitted under the previous national water programme and is being considered now under the new national water programme announced by the Prime Minister only last October. 
This scheme is a proposal for a large dam of about 200,000 acre feet to be constructed on Pike Creek which is a tributary of the Dumaresq River, one of the four border rivers. The proposal is for the cost of this dam to be met jointly by the three governments. The cost of it would be approximately, I think, SI 4m. This proposal, now coming under the new national water scheme, is being examined at present as a matter of urgency by the Commonwealth. I hesitate at this time to indicate what the final decision of the Government will be. But I can assure the House that we would anticipate the proposal coming forward for consideration by the Government during the next few months. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to empower the Minister for National Development to authorise survey parties to enter upon land to carry out mapping surveys, to place or remove survey marks and where necessary to do limited clearing by trimming, lopping or cutting down trees or bushes so as to establish clear lines of sight. The Bill provides for due notice to be given to the land owner in advance of entry upon land and of any intention to trim, lop or cut down trees or bushes. It requires the surveyors to avoid as far as practicable causing damage to property and, where it is unavoidable, as far as practicable to repair the damage. The Bill provides for compensation for loss or damage to property as a result of survey operations. The amount of compensation may be determined by agreement or, in the absence of agreement, by action against the Commonwealth in a court of competent jurisdiction. The Bill also prohibits, under penalty, the unlawful damage, destruction or removal of Commonwealth survey marks, and provides for the Commonwealth to recover the cost of repair or re-establishment. 
Ali countries have a need for maps and the more a country is developed so does the need increase for many different types of maps for a multitude of purposes. The Division of National Mapping of my Department already produces a wide variety of maps. With the increased activity in exploration for minerals there has been a strong demand by industry for various types of maps produced by the Commonwealth. In 1968, for the first time in Australia's history, this vast continent of almost 3 million square miles was covered by a uniform series of mapping at 1 : 250,000 scale, 1 inch on the map representing approximately 4 miles on the ground. For the past decade and longer these maps, as they have become available, have been used in assessing Australia's resources in minerals, water and forests, for many administrative purposes and for the broad planning of beef roads, better alignment of highways and railways and for general development planning. Although extremely valuable for these purposes this series of 1 : 250,000 maps is as yet uncontoured and has been inadequate for detailed investigations. Only limited coverage at larger scales has existed, chiefly around the eastern seaboard and some in Western Australia, most of it being of World War IT vintage. For the forthcoming census next year the Division is producing a very wide range of maps for the collection of statistics, ranging from maps of small areas for use by individual collectors to smaller scale maps of each State and to statistical maps covering the whole of Australia. For the first time the Bureau of Census and Statistics will be provided with an adequate variety of maps for its many purposes. 
The Bureau of Mineral Resources procures and records geostatistical data in respect of geology, mineral resources, the earth's gravity and magnetic fields all of which is recorded on base maps produced by the Division of National Mapping. The Department's Water, Power and Geographic Branch arranges primarily through State authorities for the recording of statistics on surface and underground water and pro duces maps showing the geographical location of this data. It also produces an atlas of Australian resources and is active in the production of geographic maps showing the resources of particular regions. The Forestry and Timber Bureau of my Department collects and collates information on forest statistics for timber inventory surveys and advises on forest management including fire fighting. In all of these activities map positions are required in varying degrees of significance. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has a varied requirement for maps through the activities of its Divisions of Land Research, Soils and Wild Life Research. The Division prepares and produces aeronautical charts and special visual terminal charts for the Department of Civil Aviation. 
Good topographic maps are of course essential1 for defence planning and defence operations. Close liaison exists between the Division of National Mapping and the Royal Australian Survey Corps. Maps are produced by both agencies to mutually agreed basic specifications and when each map is printed enough copies are provided for both civil and defence purposes. These topographic maps are of particular importance as they show the shape of the terrain, the location of all natural features, mountains, streams, lakes, coastlines and all1 man made features such as towns, homesteads, roads, railways, airfields, reservoirs and the like, all in their correct positions. These maps are the basic source from which all other maps for special purposes are produced. In 1965 the Government, realising the basic importance of larger scale mapping, authorised a 10-year accelerated programme of topographic mapping of Australia at a scale of 1 : 100,000 (approximately 1.6 miles to 1 inch) with 20-metre contours. This programme is now well launched and already over 200,000 square miles of mapping in manuscript form has been accomplished. This work is the responsibility of the Division of National Mapping which undertakes part itself, arranges part to be carried out under contract and receives substantial contributions from the Royal Australian Army Survey Corps. Alt the 6 State Lands Departments have now converted to metric scale mapping to help achieve the 10-year programme. 
Nevertheless this enormous task will require every modern aid and a very concentrated effort if it is to be completed within the allotted period. My Department accordingly has acquired and will continue to acquire much modern equipment. Special air survey cameras have been introduced which, from a height of 25,000 feet, can photograph an area of 140 square miles on a single photograph. Distances of up to 200 miles are measured with electronic equipment. The whole country is being covered by a dense network of levelling surveys and additional heights are being obtained by contractor operated airborne radar equipment in the large areas of very flat country in Australia. 
In order to provide the accuracy necessary in country of greater relief the Weapons Research Establishment of the Department of Supply has developed special laser equipment that will provide the necessary elevation data from an aircraft flying at a constant height above sea level. Laser equipment is also used to measure horizontal distances between ground stations to a very high order of accuracy. Electronic computing equipment is now used to process all field data into co-ordinate form. Electronically operated stereo plotting machines have been obtained. When fitted with a stereoscopic pair of air photographs and set up to fit the ground survey data these will automatically extract contour data and produce an orthometric photograph showing all the ground detail in its correct map position with all the distortions of the original air photographs removed. This product is called an orthophotograph and successive orthophotographs can be joined together to form an orthophotomap, which is bound to appeal to many map users, especially in the lesser developed parts of Australia. 
For many years now the officers of my Department have been engaged on various types of field surveys, including topographic, geological and geophysical surveys, undertaken in the course of preparing maps for Commonwealth purposes. To make maps it is essential, in the first instance, for surveyors to go out in the field. They must methodically cover the country with a pattern of geodetic control stations which is the basic framework for the production of a topographic map. Ground measure ments must be made, geographical positions must be determined by astronomical observations, networks of levels must be run to determine the relative heights of features and then the multitude of detail is plotted from the air photographs. Because of higher resolution cameras and improving geometric qualifies of the photographs coupled with the ability to measure greater horizontal distances by electronic methods the density of the pattern of ground control is gradually diminishing but there will always be a requirement for surveyors to move over the ground, establish marks and make measurements. 
In the course of these surveys they need to enter on private land as well as on Crown land for the purpose of placing geodetic station marks, beacons and reference marks, making measurements and observations to other stations and carrying out various other operations. The geographic positions of the stations are determined and their precise locations are identified on air photographs. Usually these stations are located on vantage points with a commanding view over the surrounding country. So that intervisibility between adjacent stations may be established it is frequently necessary to fell or lop trees and bushes and clear other obstacles. It is the practice for the party leader to contact the landowner or occupier in advance to explain the purpose of the survey and to obtain his agreement for the emplacing of marks and for whatever clearing operations are necessary. The officers are always very careful to cause as little damage as possible and movement over the property is kept to a minimum. They are most mindful not to cause any disturbance to stock, particularly if lambing is in progress or there is stud stock on the property. 
Most owners are fully co-operative and in fact take active steps to prevent any damage or disturbance to the survey marks or destruction of the beacon by fire or vandalism. This happy situation is brought about by careful explanation to them of the importance of the marks in the mapping and general development of the district, and by the exercise of courtesy and reasonableness on the part of survey party leaders. Occasionally, however, a property owner objects to any entry on his land bv a government employee and disputes the necessity for the survey. Wherever possible an alternative acceptable site for the goedetic station is chosen. However, it sometimes happens that no other alternative is possible if the aims of the survey are to be achieved and statutory authority to enter upon the land would be desirable. 
The provisions of the Bill are not intended to alter the existing practice whereby survey parties moving into a district or on to particular properties take steps to advise representative persons by advance letter or personal contact of their intention to carry out the proposed operations. Where the possibility exists of damage to trees or crops, the cutting of fences or interference with stock, the alternative possibilities of location of the operations are discussed. Where any damage requires making good, such as damage to roads, filling in of holes or repairing of fences, local arrangements satisfactory to the property owner or local authority are made. However, the use of the powers set out in the Bill will prevent any hitches in what must, of necessity, be a tightly scheduled and close knit operation if the  10  year mapping programme is to be completed on time. Tt will also serve to ensure that the- rights and property of landholders are adequately protected. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 Sitting suspended from 5.48 to 8 p.m. 
The formulation of policy in relation to this matter really resides in the State governments of Victoria and New South Wales, although, of course, the Commonwealth has an overriding interest in the formulation of export policy, which is under its jurisdiction. Only a month or so ago we made an announcement on this aspect. The direction the pipeline will take when it is constructed and whether any spur lines will be added are matters to be decided by the two States and the companies that are directly involved. I understand from a public statement I read recently that the two State Ministers have conferred and I would expect that before too long some announcement will be made. The New South Wales Minister for Mines was present at a conference I attended last night and he intimated to me again, just as a matter of interest, that he expected to be in a position to make some announcement in conjunction with his colleague in Victoria in the near future. I should imagine that the answer to the first part of the question asked by the honourable member will be available from the two State Ministers. 
The second part of the question related to subsidies. To date no request for a subsidy has been submitted to the Commonwealth by the States. When the direction of the pipeline and the requirement for spur lines are decided, if a request for assistance is made to the Commonwealth at some time in the future some consideration will be given to it. The third part of the question related to the Mereenie field, which is in the Northern Territory. At present some deposits of crude oil and gas have been located in this area, which is south west of Alice Springs, but no decision has yet been made regarding the exploitation of the field or the marketing of the product. I did have an interview with a deputation representing all the interests concerned only in the last couple of weeks. We discussed all aspects at length. Some further information is required for consideration by my Department and I understand that a further submission will be made within a matter of weeks. After the matter has been considered, and when a decision is made. I will certainly give the information to the House. 
-(Parting Downs - Minister for National Development) - I ask leave of the House to move a motion for the reappointment of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reader's Digest Association Pty Ltd was given a licence to reproduce in Atlas form approximately 50 published maps. To give effect to the arrangement the Company was furnished with copies of mapping material, including negative films of the maps. 
The Reader's Digest Association agreed to pay a royalty amounting to 25 cents for each Atlas produced and to reimburse the Commonwealth for any costs, exceeding $2,250, incurred by the Commonwealth in preparing and making the material available. Departmental costs did not exceed $2,250 and to dale a payment of $50,1.51.25 has been made by the firm. 
(a) No material has been supplied to overseas Governments; 
No charge is made for material supplied to State Governments: 
Requests are received from private publishers to use mapping material in a variety of ways. Proposals are considered on their merits and appropriate charges arc made for materials supplied and for royalties. 
The honourable member did contact me before the end of last year regarding this matter and we have had several discussions since that time. The position at the present is that under the new National Water Resources. Development Programme that was announced by the Prime Minister last October flood mitigation is now included. There was a grant made to the State of New South Wales to assist in the previous programme for flood mitigation principally in the northern rivers area. I understand that practically all the works there have been completed up to the present time. The New South Wales Government resubmitted a further programme for consideration during last year. As flood mitigation now comes under the new proposal by the Prime Minister, this was incorporated in it. As some additional information under the scheme is required, the Prime Minister wrote to the Premier of New South Wales a couple of months ago indicating that this matter would be considered under the new scheme and later requesting the additional information required. 
That information has been partly provided. I understand that in the very near future we shall have all the details that we require. In the meantime some discussions have been taking place between the officers of my Department and of the two departments concerned in New South Wales. In fact it was only today that I had some discussions with the State Minister for Works in New South Wales on the subject and we are arranging for the final discussions to take place in the near future. It is hoped that it will not be too long now before we are able to have the matter finalised to the degree where we can bring a proposal before the Government for consideration. If the Commonwealth agrees the scheme will be financed, as was the previous scheme, partly by the Commonwealth, partly by the State concerned and partly by local government authorities. The present proposal involves a little more than the $20m previously mentioned. The new figure recently submitted is a little more than $22m. If the Commonwealth agrees in the scheme, its share will amount to about $8.9m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to ratify the sixth further amending agreement to the River Murray Waters Agreement. The principal purpose of the amending agreement is to provide for the construction of a major storage near Dartmouth on the 
Mitta Mitta River, a tributary of the Murray upstream of Hume Reservoir, as the next major development of the River Murray system. At the same time a number of amendments have been made in relation to the functions and operations of the River Murray Commission and some minor amendments have been incorporated to delete obsolete provisions in the principal Agreement and to effect a few other minor amendments of a textual nature. The background to this development, involving suspension of work on the Chowilla storage and its replacement by the Dartmouth storage as the next major development, has been given in a number of documents published by the River Murray Commission and in statements made to this House by the previous  President  of the River Murray Commission, my predecessor as the Minister for National Development. I do not therefore propose to go into this whole matter in detail once again but would be happy to answer any questions that may arise in the discussion of this measure. lt will' suffice at this stage to say that at the time of its authorisation by the four contracting governments, the Chowilla storage was estimated to cost $28m. In March 1966 as a result of more detailed design studies prior to the calling of tenders the estimated cost was revised to $43 m. When tenders were considered in April 1967 the most favourable tender received resulted in a further upward revision of the cost to $68m. Obviously, an increase of about 250% in the estimated cost over a period of 4 years raised doubts as to whether the early basis for selection of Chowilla as the most favourable development for the next stage was still valid. Accordingly it was agreed that work on the Chowilla storage should be suspended to enable a new comparison to be made between it and other possible developments in the upper Murray catchment, which had been considered in the earlier studies. These investigations, taking into consideration also the changing operational requirements along the river to control salinity, showed that for a similar capital expenditure the Dartmouth storage can be expected to provide over 1 million acre feet per annum of additional water in the River Murray system compared with an increase of between about 190,000 and 380,000 feet per annum in the case of Chowilla, depending upon operating criteria. Furthermore, the studies showed that with Dartmouth storage South Australia's increased entitlement will be provided with even less restriction than would have applied to the smaller entitlement with the Chowilla storage. Over the period since 1906 on which the studies were based there would have been only a very minor restriction in 1 year. 
The recent studies involved a substantial revision of the early assessment of the benefits that can be- expected from Chowilla. This revision was related not only to changing operational requirements on the river but also to revised assessments of other factors such as evaporation losses from the Chowilla storage which, in the light of more recent data, were substantially increased. In addition, in the recent study the whole operational programme was simulated on an electronic computer by means of which it was possible to examine alternative proposals in much greater detail than hitherto. At the same time, consultants appointed by the River Murray Commission to advise on all aspects of salinity advised that the Dartmouth storage would have verv little affect on salinity in the lower river, and that although Chowilla would reduce the short term peaks in salinity which occur from time to time in most seasons, and would affect a small reduction in the average salinity, it would also significantly increase the salinity during severe droughts when conditions are generally at their worst. Accordingly, it was considered that the effects of these 2 storages on salinity were not sufficiently different to be an important factor in the selection of the next major development. 
Against the above background the 4 contracting governments have agreed to proceed with the Dartmouth storage, subject to a number of important conditions. The first of these is that taking into consideration the additional quantity of water provided by the Dartmouth storage, compared with the Chowilla storage, South Australia's entitlement to water should be increased from 1,254,000 acre feet of water per annum to 1,500.000 acre feet. I would stress here that the figure of 1,254,000 acre feet was to have applied after the completion of Chowilla and this remained unchanged from when the Agreement was first signed in 1915. The significance of this increase of nearly 250,000 acre feet in the South Australian entitlement is, however, greater than the figures would suggest. The total entitlement includes an allowance at present assessed at 564,000 acre feet per annum, for losses such as seepage and evaporation. Hence the net divertible component of the entitlement is only 690,000 acre feet. Another important condition of the States' acceptance of the Dartmouth storage was that the Commonwealth should provide some financial assistance. I am pleased to say that agreement was also reached on this point and in conjunction with this Bill, my colleague the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  will be introducing a Bill dealing with financial agreements with the States on this matter. 
It was also agreed that in order to ensure the availability of adequate supplies of water in the lower river, the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement which had been regarded as a temporary measure pending completion of Chowilla, should be continued indefinitely. There were some other conditions associated with Dartmouth including an adjustment in the sharing of water between New South Wales and Victoria whereby Victoria cedes to New South Wales the right to use certain quantities of inflow to the Murray from Victorian tributaries below Albury. Also certain procedures were laid down for regulation of the river with a view to controlling salinity in the lower reaches. Earlier studies had led to the belief that following the construction of Chowilla the 2 upstream States would each receive substantial additional supplies after providing that South Australia would receive its entitlement of 1,254,000 acre feet per annum without restriction in all but a very few years of severe drought. The upstream States entered into commitments for the use of water from the Murray system in anticipation of the availability of additional supplies. Severe curtailment of deliveries in the 2 upstream States can be" expected in the event of the recurrence of some of the earlier severe droughts, until the Dartmouth storage comes into operation. It is therefore a matter of considerable urgency that the additional storage be provided in order to avoid the widespread disruption that would occur In the whole of the Murray Valley in the event of a severe drought. Detailed economic studies of the benefits from this storage would be a very difficult and complex exercise, but I would point out that the capital cost of the storage per acre foot of additional water supplied per annum, which is only slightly over $50 per acre foot is exceptionally low by present day Australian standards and indicates the economic justification for the proposal. 
Turning now to the Dartmouth Reservoir itself, the dam will consist of a central earth core flanked on either side by material increasing in coarseness with an outer shell of quarried rock. The embankment will be approximately 590 feet high above foundation, the crest length 2,300 feet, and the volume of fill about 20 million cubic yards. A spillway with fixed crest 300 feet long is proposed on the left bank of the dam site, discharging through a short length of concrete lined chute into the rock quarry, where the energy of the water will be dissipated over a series of cascades. Final investigations and designs may lead to some modification of the general arrangement at present proposed. Investigations are proceeding to determine whether power generation facilities should be included with the dam, but any such works would be financed by the Electricity Commission of Victoria and would not affect the functioning of the storage for water supply purposes. It is proposed that the constructing authority, the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission of Victoria, will retain the Snowy Mountains Authority as consultants to carry out the detailed design and preparation of contract documents for the project. 
I should perhaps say a word or two about the operation of the storage, since it has from time to time been questioned whether it is possible for it to provide an additional supply of over 1 million acre feet per annum in the system, when the mean annual discharge at the dam site is only about 700,000 acre feet per annum. At present, water is released from Hume storage only when inflows downstream are insufficient to meet requirements along the river. Bv an extension of this same principle, water would be released from Dartmouth storage when the Hume storage, which is further downstream, has been emptied, or when it is apparent that the storage will fail unless unexpected inflows occur. Thus the 3 million acre feet storage in Dartmouth will be available for release during periods in which shortages would otherwise occur, and the net result of this is that the inflow to the system, including inflow from tributaries below Hume, can be used more efficiently. 1 will now refer to the main provisions of the Agreement. The construction of Dartmouth Reservoir is provided for in clause 10(b) which inserts a new paragraph in clause 20 of the principal Agreement. In view of. the size and cost of this work it has been considered desirable to include in its description the estimated cost, in preference to the earlier procedure of amending clause 32 of the principal Agreement which previously gave the sum of the total costs of the completed works, and the estimated cost of the proposed new work. As a result of the inclusion of the Dartwouth Reservoir in the Agreement a number of consequential changes have been made to other clauses, many of which are of a purely routine nature and will not be mentioned further. Since the Agreement did not allocate responsibility for construction of works on tributaries above Hume Reservoir, this has now been added in terms of clause 1 1 . 
Clause 13 provides for the deferment of construction of the Chowilla Reservoir as agreed by the four governments. The Lake Victoria storage is of great importance to South Australia as a source of water close at hand, particularly for the purposes of salinity control. Its effectiveness is determined partly by the size of the inlet and outlet works, and studies in this connection are at present in progress. For this reason, clause 10 (a) provides for an amendment to the description of the Lake Victoria works which will permit additional work to proceed on the basis of agreement by the 4 governments. 
The other major change resulting from the Dartmouth project is the agreement to continue the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement indefinitely. As 1 have mentioned, this Agreement was earlier visualised as a temporary measure pending the completion of the Chowilla project, but in terms of clause 29, the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement is incorporated into the River Murray Waters Agreement. This includes a small adjustment in the New South Wales entitlement to water from the Menindee Lakes storage, as agreed between representatives of the 4 governments. Clauses 22 and 26(h) give details of an adjustment in allocation of tributary inflow in Victoria whereby the right to . use a small quantity of this flow is ceded to New South Wales, as also agreed between representatives of the governments. At that time it was also agreed to adopt an operational procedure for salinity control in the river which has been found effective in recent years, and this is dealt with in clause 22. I might mention that while this clause refers only to control of salinity upstream of South Australia, this is on the basis of control below that point being handled by releases from Lake Victoria, and if necessary from the Menindee Lakes storages. 
I refer now to matters more of a machinery nature. Clauses 12, 13 and 16 provide for the contracting governments to be kept in closer touch with the main steps in implementing major works, and this seems desirable when we are dealing with projects of the magnitude of the Dartmouth Reservoir. Clause 9 gives the Commission the power of delegation which is usual for bodies of this type, but which had not previously  been provided for. Clause 5 makes provision for indemnity for the officers and servants of the Commission in respect of any claims against them arising out of the bona fide execution of their duties. This indemnity has hitherto been available only for the commissioners and it was considered desirable to take advantage of this opportunity to provide similar protection for the officers and servants of the Commission. I do not believe the other matters are worthy of special mention and ( will not take further time to deal with them now. in summary, this Bill provides the machinery for implementing a major project which is of the utmost importance to the whole of the Murray Valley development. For South Australia, its importance extends far beyond the Murray Valley in the provision of pumped water supplies to Adelaide, to other industrial areas, and to very large areas of wheat and sheep country. Completion of the project will greatly increase the water supply available to the 3 States which are signatory to the Agreement, and I feel that the Commonwealth can be proud of the part it has played in bringing this project to the point where, after ratification of the Agreement by the 4 parliaments, work can be put in hand immediately. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
1 am not aware of any proposals that have been submitted by public bodies in Victoria in relation to operations at the new Melbourne airport at' Tullamarine. The international section of this airport is due to come into operation later this year and the domestic section will open approximately 12 months after the date when the international terminal is opened. However, that matter, I. understand, has to be fully considered before the actual opening of the international terminal and, no doubt, any submissions made by public bodies will receive full and appropriate consideration. 
The position regarding Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport is not quite as stated in the question by the honourable member. The curfew to which he refers applies to the operation of jet aircraft only. Operations are carried out throughout the night by other types of aircraft including turbo-prop aircraft and conventional engine aircraft. I may say that the curfew that applies at certain of our major airports in Australia is a stricter application of restrictions of this type than in any other country in the world. This indicates the awareness of the Department of Civil Aviation and the Government of the problem that applies in this regard. 
The question of any extension of operations outside the curfew hours has come up from time to time for consideration. The Government and the Department have considered that no change should be made. Certainly, as far as I am aware, no change is contemplated in the future. The whole question of the development of airport facilities in a major sense for Sydney is under investigation by an inter-departmental committee which 1 had the opportunity of setting up a year ago. That committee has done considerable work in this field. I understand that we cannot anticipate that its report as to the future development of airport facilities at Sydney will be received for some time. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The investigation is still in hand and is expected to take some months to complete. 

 - Mr Speaker, as you are aware the honourable member was my predecessor as Minister for National Development, and I would like to pay a tribute to him for his administration of the Department, which administration included laying the foundations for a public relations system. As the honourable member has said, an enormous expansion is taking place in the development of our natural resources today. As far as my Department is concerned, the quarterly magazine 'National Development' which has been published for some years now will have an extended circulation because it is a very substantial means of getting the message through both here and overseas. But in addition, recognising the need for an expansion of the public relations system, we have now arranged, with the complete co-operation of the Prime Minister and the assistance of the  Chairman  and members of the Public Service Board, for a very substantial expansion in the public relations service within the Department. Some additional journalists and a photographer will be provided, and very shortly I hope to commence publication of a national development monthly newsletter which will contain a substantial amount of information for circulation through all public relations media both here and overseas.In addition to this, with the expanded system we will have the opportunity of keeping our public relations more up to date and operating on an increasing scale, and I am sure that this will meet the full requirements as proposed by the honourable member. 
I was very pleased to be able to announce, with the approval of the 
Prime Minister, some time ago the agreement of the Commonwealth for the first large-scale water project under the new programme. The honourable member, as a Queenslander, should be happy that the first major project under the new programme as announced is being allocated to Queensland. Certainly the Premier of Queensland and the Queensland Government are happy because they have given this particular work their first priority. The honourable member referred to a cost benefit analysis or feasibility studies which had been undertaken by the State in the past. Under the previous water resources development programme the Queensland Government had submitted a proposal for a scheme in the Bundaberg region as top priority. We have to depend upon the States to give us their priorities. We accepted that submission and it was being examined when the last election took place. 
It is interesting to note that the decision in relation to this was not made until after the election. This corrects the impression which might have been conveyed by the honourable member that the decision was made to gain some political advantage. The matter was not finanlised until after the election. The decision was made about  a  month ago, but full information and full details were submitted by Queensland in relation to the overall proposal. The results of the Queensland studies were submitted to my Department and went through the normal process of a complete investigation by officers of my Department We had the whole of the basic information about the Kolan project and if the honourable member has not already received a copy of the memorandum which I circulated to honourable members when I made my second reading speech on the legislation, I can certainly supply him with  a  copy. It contains all the information that he requires.In this case the first priority was given to this scheme by the Queensland Government and it was accepted as such by the Commonwealth. 
On the question of the Burdekin proposal, I understand that the Queensland Government is undertaking  a  complete study of that project which has taken various forms in the past. The Queensland Government has engaged the Snowy Mountains HydroElectric Authority as consultants to assist in this particular work and no doubt at a later stage it will be submitting some proposals for consideration by the Commonwealth. This may, of course, be in the long term and I do not know at this stage whether or not it is a proposal to which the Queensland Government will give high priority. However the investigation is a matter for the Queensland Government. 
The honourable member for Chifley raised this, matter during the adjournment debate last night. I contacted my colleague in another place to obtain up to date information. The position is that some time ago, as has been mentioned in this House, an inter-departmental committee was set up to investigate the development of airport facilities for Sydney after the present facilities at Mascot reach saturation, which will be some time in the 1980s. The committee has been looking at a number of sites, but it is expected that a considerable time will elapse before its report is submitted. In the meantime other investigations related to general aviation have been carried out. It was announced last year that 6 additional sites, either satellites or main general aviation aerodromes, would be developed around the Sydney area and some investigations have been carried out on a number of sites for general aviation purposes - that is, for light aircraft. 
No ground surveys for an additional major commercial airport in the Richmond area have been carried out by the Department of Civil Aviation, although in the first quarter of last year the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise flew over that region and examined the noise levels there. In addition some senior officers from the Department of Civil Aviation, in a general examination of the whole of the Sydney area, viewed the area from the air, but this was not a survey of any type and a ground survey was not undertaken at the time. If any survey was undertaken, it could possibly have been done by the Department of Air, as Richmond is an air base and is still controlled by the Royal Australian Air Force. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Approximately 8 minutes after the accident. 
The investigation of aircraft accidents is directed to the determination of causes in the interest of the safety of future operations. The investigation does not include an assessment of personal losses, suffering or inconvenience as claims and insurance aspects are matters for direct negotiations between passengers, the operator and insurers. Also, it is believed that it would be extremely difficult to arrive at any reliable estimate of damage to tourism which might have been caused by this accident, particularly as this event must be considered in the context of Australia's well recognised high overall aviation safety level, 
This helicopter was involved in another take-off accident in June 1 968', but repair cost was advised as being $49,514 rather than the $80,000 quoted. 
The Department of Civil Aviation provides fire and rescue facilities at the busier domestic airports in descending order of importance, based upon the density of traffic, down to a cut-off point known as the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Category IV. Suited in simple terms, this Category requires eight daily movements of regular public transport aircraft of F27 size or larger. -Aircraft traffic trends are constantly monitored and, on the current criteria, Gladstone would probably warrant serious consideration for the provision of fire fighting and rescue facilities during 1971. The actual establishment of this unit may be governed by availability of necessary equipment which, together with suitable premises, would have a capital cost of the order of $180,000. The requested details of annual costs are: 
approximately $45,000; 
Nil; 
Nil. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
T.A.A. did first apply for a Perth-Darwin licence on 3 July 1963. 
Three times. 
18th December 1968. 
After a comprehensive review of the situation, the Government took the attitude that it was not an appropriate time to reach a definitive attitude on the question of competition on the north-west routes but indicated to T.A.A. that the matter would be reviewed again in mid 1970. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes.I understand the undertakings were made following representations to the U.S. airlines by officials of the Departments of Transportation and Health, Education and Welfare. 
I am informed that the Boeing 727 and DC9 aircraft so far imported by Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines were not fitted with reduced smoke combustion chambers. Both airlines have been assured by the aircraft manufacturers that future importations of these types of aircraft will have the new commission chambers. 
My Department has been advised by both these operators of their plans for introducing the modified combustion chambers. The airlines have voluntarily decided  to  fit reduced smoke combustion chambers in their Pratt and Whitney JT8D engines on a progressive basis during overhauls. It is estimated that this will be completed by the end of 1972 which is the same as the time scale agreed by airline operators in the U.S.A. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Approval for the acquisition for the Tullamarine site was given in 1959 and the actual acquisitions took place over the years 1960 to 1963 inclusive. The cost was$4,680,382. 
The cost to the Commonwealth of developing the airport excluding acquisitions, up to 30th June 1969, was $34,754,221. 
Melbourne Airport may have 100,000 movements by 1975 but this is partly dependent upon the expected employment of the Airbus on certain of the main domestic air routes and on the very difficult to forecast build up in international flights calling at Melbourne. It will be appreciated that additional to this there will be considerable general aviation traffic at nearby Essendon Airport. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, subject to formal agreement being reached for the aerodrome to be transferred in accordance with the Local Ownership Plan. 
$650,000. 
Yes, subject to the earlier mentioned plan and the finalisation of the local ownership negotiations. 
$500,000 of which the Commonwealth would pay half. 
The Government is confident that the main runway will not require major work for 7 years and accepts responsibility in the very unlikely event of any such major works being required. The Government also considers that other movement areas will prove adequate for at least 10 years. If, in our opinion, additional movement areas are required during those 10 years, they will be provided by the Commonwealth. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have arranged for the Department to discuss the matter with the Bunbury Town Council in order to ascertain what additional work is required to improve their aerodrome to licensing standards. I understand that widening of the strip is the main work required and that this widening was not undertaken at the time of the original aerodrome works. 
The appropriate Commonwealth grant for local ownership works is 50% provided there is an airline or well-established commuter service. In the event that either of these services is attracted to Bunbury consideration will be given lo the payment of a Commonwealth grant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some subsidies under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-1969 had been paid to companies in respect of drilling operations in areas off the Queensland coast, some of which could be considered to be adjacent to the Great Barrier Reef. 
Future policy on subsidising drilling operations in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef will, if necessary, be considered when the results of the proposed inquiry into possible damage to the Reef by oil drilling are available. However, this issue is not likely to arise, as 1 would not expect that potentially harmful operations will be allowed by the Queensland Designated Authority. 
There are no wells being drilled or firmly programmed for the area at present. 
By a strange coincidence I was speaking to my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation, about this matter this morning. As I have stated in this House in my previous capacity, the Department of Civil Aviation is charged with looking into the future for airport facilities. It is working on a plan for the future which carries the projections up to about the turn of the century. This applies to all States and Territories of Australia. With regard to what could be termed the Greater Melbourne area, it is visualised that in the distant future - quite some years from now - there will be a requirement principally for domestic purposes beyond the facilities which will be opened very shortly at Tullamarine, the new Melbourne airport. 
As yet there is no indication that there will be a requirement in the future for additional international facilities but there certainly will, at some point of time in the future - in the next decade - be some additional requirement for domestic purposes to service the Westernport-Gippsland area in the Greater Melbourne region. With this in mind, the Department has, as it does in other States, made some surveys of likely areas which could be reserved for airport development. Two regions were looked at in that locality. One was in the vicinity of the Devon Meadows-Quail Island apea. Another area looked at was around French Island. It is possible that at some point of time in the future reservations will be made, but I should like to assure the House that these are long term projections. It is something which, if it does eventuate, will not happen until the next decade. But I am sure that everyone would agree that the Department of Civil Aviation must, like the other departments, look to the future for developments. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on. this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Dartmouth Reservoir Agreement Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 I refer to clause 4 which reads: 
The sixth further amending Agreement,  a  copy of which is set out in section  7  of this Act, is hereby ratified and approved. 
I  move: 
Omit  '7',  insert  '6'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to correct an erroneous cross reference in clause 4 of the Bill. Clause 4 refers to the amending agreement, a copy of which is set out in section 7 of the Act. The amending agreement is in fact set out in section 6 of the Act and the amendment will merely correct the error. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 The amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is not acceptable for a number of reasons. The main reason is that it is based on incorrect premises. The honourable member based his case on the fact that the information which had been provided was not adequate and that in fact insufficient information was made available publicly to indicate the extent of the investigations which had been undertaken. The second reason is that this proposed amendment, if passed, would mean that the measure would be delayed. As 1 pointed out in my second reading speech to the House, this is now a matter of urgency and it should be clarified by the Parliament as quickly as possible. 
Let me come back to the first point. The honourable member for Dawson referred to the fact - at least he claimed it to be the fact - that information had not been made available publicly. My predecessor as Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  made a statement on 31st January 1969. I will merely quote from 1 or 2 paragraphs of that statement. He said: 
The River Murray Commission today released the 3 reports on which it is basing its latest assessment of a site for the proposed new major storage on the Murray. They are a report by the Commission's Technical Committee, a special interim report by the Commission's salinity consultants, and a study by the Snowy Mountains Authority of the Dartmouth Dam site in Victoria. 
He went on to say: 
In September 1968 the Commission published a statement on its progress in considering the site of the next major storage on the Murray. 
He also added: 
The latest reports released today give some indication of the intensive effort that has gone into this important study, and the quality of data available to the Commission as a basis for its deliberations. 
He also said: 
It  seemed desirable, in the public interest, to make the reports freely available in order that the merits of the respective dam sites under consideration might be better understood. 
These reports were published, were made available publicly and were available to the honourable member if he desired to study them. 
In referring to this specific situation, the computer programme itself enabled a great many more studies to be made in the available time. About 260 individual simulations of the operation of the whole River Murray system over the historical period 1905 to 1959 for a wide range of conditions were carried out. This is probably about 5 times as many as were carried out over the whole period from 1902 to 1967. In relation to the reference to the variables which have been mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson, a table was set out in one of the reports and it referred to the variables used in the 1967-69 computer studies. It referred to the studies made in relation to Chowilla, Dartmouth, Gibbo, Murray Gates, Jingellic and Buffalo. A minor study was made in relation to Menindee. The report said that if all the possible combinations of the evaluations of variables listed had been examined, over 3 million operational studies would have been required. In fact some 260 selected studies were completed to the end of February 1969. That clearly indicates, firstly, the penetrating study that had been undertaken in this computer programme which dealt with the situation and also the fact that these reports were published and a public statement was made by my predecessor indicating that they were available publicly at the time. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  referred to the question of the Menindee storage and said that I referred in my second reading speech to the fact that this was to be only a temporary measure. If he had studied my second reading speech he would have seen that the exact wording was: 
The other major change resulting from the Dartmouth project is the agreement to continue the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement indefinitely. 
Perhaps he read the next paragraph in which I said that it was earlier visualised as a temporary measure, but my statement that the agreement for the Menindee Lakes storage would continue indefinitely was positive. That is exactly what is being done in the Agreement. I conclude by reiterating what I said at the outset: This particular amendment is not acceptable to the Government. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
An amount of $52,733,836 was expended by the Commonwealth between 1.7.53 and 30.6.69, comprising - 
The first point I would like to make is that during this third reading debate it has been said, quite incorrectly, that during the second reading debate a number of points were raised which I have not answered. The explanation for this, as is known to the House, is that the debate was closed before I. had the opportunity to answer these points. 1 think the reference that was made was made with the knowledge. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  repeated several times that Crowilla is to be expunged. He qualified it a litttle at the beginning but in his later remarks there was no qualification at all. Clause 13 which refers to clause 24 of the Agreement reads: 
by adding at the end of the clause the words 'However, completion of the  construction  of the Chowilla Reservoir shall be deferred until dic Contracting Governments agree that the work shall proceed . . . 
As the Commonwealth representative on the River Murray Commission I would like to make a categorical denial of the affirmation by the Leader of the Opposition that Chowilla has been expunged. The position is as set out in the amendment to the Agreement - that it has been deferred. As the Leader of the Opposition rightly qualified at the beginning of his remarks, this matter would have to go through the normal procedures to be revived and considered by the 4 governments. 
There is a reference in the technical report to the figure concerned. That is only an estimate of what the cost may be. The point is that the studies are being undertaken at the present time to see, firstly, whether .the additional works are required, and secondly, if they are required exactly what the cost will be. When that report is received from the investigating group it will be submitted to the River Murray Commission and in turn referred to the 4 governments for ratification if additional expenditure is required. If this work is required it will naturally be there for quite some years and amortised over a period of years until further consideration would be given to Chowilla. I think it is well in the interests of South Australia to ensure that if that work is required it is proceeded with. I am sure this is the view that will be taken by the Commission and by the governments concerned. It is definitely in the interests of South Australia to ensure that the Lake Victoria storage is maintained at the required level, from the point of view of both supply of water and control of salinity. This is related to future consideration of Chowilla but of course we would not anticipate that that would be for quite some years and any work that is undertaken at this point of time in Lake Victoria would be of definite immediate assistance to the State of South Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition proposed that there should be a comprehensive scheme covering both Chowilla and Dartmouth. The basis of the Agreement is a result of the studies of the technical committee set up by the River Murray Commission and advice given to the 4 governments. The advice after a series of studies was that Dartmouth should proceed and Chowilla should be deferred, but in relation to this computer studies were made of combinations of storage at Dartmouth and Chowilla but they were obviously so much less attractive than a single storage facility at Dartmouth that they were not pursued beyond the elementary stage. But I can assure the House that the information that was available to the technical committee at that time indicated very clearly that there would be great advantage in proceeding with Dartmouth as a single project and deferring Chowilla for consideration in the future. As has already been mentioned, the building of Chowilla after Dartmouth would add 250,000 acre feet to the available water. A storage of 2 million more acre feel at Dartmouth combined with a 3 million acre feet storage at Chowilla would provide an additional yield not more than 15% greater than would be provided by a 3 million acre feet storage at Dartmouth alone. The 2 storages would cost just under $100m or about 70% above the cost of Dartmouth. This of course was one of the considerations of the Commission when making ils recommendation to the 4 governments. 
The honourable member for Dawson also asked again whether information could be made available to him in relation to the computer studies which had been undertaken. I indicated just a moment ago that the studies in relation to the combined comprehensive storages at Dartmouth and Chowilla were carried to an elementary stage but intensive studies were undertaken of the individual storages. I did refer to this previously in the House so I will not cover that ground again except to say that the computer sheets covering the programme could be made available to the honourable member at any time he wishes to study them. They are a little too large to produce in this House and they certainly could not be incorporated in Hansard because of their size but I undertake that if the honourable member for Dawson wishes to study the computer sheets which show the individual studies at Dartmouth and Chowilla and a number of other projects, they will be available for his perusal. 
Reference was also made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to some wording I used in relation to the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement when I referred to the continuity of this scheme indefinitely. The wording 'in perpetuity' has been used in other documents and certainly by the Commission. In effect, what this means really is that the wording of clause 4 of the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement, which previously referred to a time limit, states: 
This Agreement shall be deemed to have commenced on the first day of January one thousand nine hundred and sixty three and without prejudice to the later operation . . . shall remain in force for a period of seven years from that date. 
The Agreement was subsequently amended to extend it a little further. That has now been deleted by the new Agreement. In other words, it is for an indefinite period. The purpose of the clause in the Bill which is before the House is to introduce the Agreement to that effect. It means that it is for an indefinite time limit and it can be described, as the Commission did, as being in perpetuity. The time limit which was included in the Agreement previously is merely deleted and it is now open ended. 
The last point that I want to make, and which I think is quite important, is that there has been some thought that if Chowilla and Dartmouth were constructed at the same time, as proposed by the Leader of the Opposition and 1 or 2 honourable members from South Australia, this would increase the volume of water available to South Australia. I suppose this is due to the conception that, Chowilla dam being in South Australian territory, the storage capacity would be available for that State's use entirely. In accordance with the usual practice of the River Murray Commission, the actual gate operations at the storage would be carried out by South Australian staff but the operation would be in accordance with the criteria laid down by the 
River Murray Commission and the amount of water released would be set out in the River Murray Waters Agreement. In other words, this is only one part of the overall River Murray system and whatever water is made available to South Australia from that system - no matter whether it be from a Chowilla system, a Dartmouth system or any other storage - would be provided by agreement between the 4 governments. 
There is every possibility that even if the 2 storages were provided it would not mean another gallon of water to South Australia. The total dispersal has to be taken into consideration, and the total volume of water is agreed upon between the 4 governments. The River Murray is Australia's most important river system and it must be used to provide the maximum benefit for the greatest number of people. The proposal to build Dartmouth as the next major storage is based, as I have already explained, on a thorough examination, the results of which have been made quite clear in the technical report which is a public document and which is available. It provides an additional yield to South Australia from Dartmouth that the upstream States have agreed to, on the basis of an entitlement of  ii  million acre feet per year compared with 1,254,000 acre feet which would have been provided from Chowilla. This has already been stated in the House and I think it is a very sound reason why the Dartmouth project is of greater value to South Australia than the Chowilla project would be or than a combination of the 2 would be. The Commonwealth Government and the Governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia firmly believe that this proposal is in the best interests of all the parties concerned and, as we have indicated today, because of the increased volume of water that will be made available to South Australia by the amendment to the Agreement it will be in the interests of that State to have this amendment confirmed and ratified by this Parliament. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
 As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, this matter has already been covered in the debate on the River Murray Waters Bill and, like the honourable member, I do not intend to take up much of the time of the House in debating the Bill except to say that as far as information is concerned, I did refer to the 3 reports of the technical committee and to other reports of the River Murray Commission that were public documents and which referred specifically to the 2 projects. They give a lot of useful information which I am sure would cover most of the points raised by the honourable member for Dawson. As regards proposals for an additional computer study, as I indicated earlier a study of a comprehensive scheme was undertaken up to an elementary stage. It indicated very clearly and conclusively the advantages of Dartmouth over Chowilla. It did not go beyond that stage. However, individual very comprehensive computer studies were made of individual projects, including both Dartmouth and Chowilla. As I have already said, the computer papers can be made available to the honourable member for Dawson for study whenever he requires them. In view of all these facts the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(1) 
I appreciate the honourable member's interest in this important activity. As he knows, there have been proposals for some considerable time for the development of the airport at Brisbane. The acquisition of certain land in the area to the south east will allow development to take place some distance from the present terminal locality. I am not certain about the remainder of the area in the western part of the present airport. I know it is a major operational area and that there is quite a bit of commercial activity in that locality. I will see that the question is brought to the attention of my colleague in another place to ascertain whether anything can be done about the matter. 
It is a fact that wheat exports from Australia have gone to Rhodesia in the past. Honourable members may recall that back in 1965 when the economic sanctions were first imposed at the request of Britain the matter was taken up through the Security Council of the United Nations and a resolution was passed imposing sanctions to which Australia subscribed at the time. But in 1968 that resolution did make some exceptions for medical supplies, educational facilities and foodstuffs on the basis that the people of Rhodesia should not be deprived of these commodities. As a result Australia has over recent years provided exports of these items, principally of wheat. That same situation still applies,  Mr Speaker,  and whilst I cannot forecast what the future will hold I would expect that wheat exports would continue to be provided. 
I did have a message from the local authorities organisation in that area yesterday asking whether any further information was available. At the present time studies have not been completed. We have received all of the required information from the New South Wales Government and the Queensland Government. I would expect, in accordance with the advice which I gave to the two honourable members previously, that in the very near future we will be in a position to make a decision about the dam. As soon as I am in a position to do so I will inform the honourable member. 
I did have some discussions with my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation on this matter just recently. There is no certainty at the moment when the Boeing 747 will commence operation into Australia, although I believe it would be in the relatively near future. There is as yet no indication of when the Concorde supersonic type aircraft will go into commercial operation and the speculation in the newspapers at the moment may or may not be correct. However, the position in relation to noise standards was, as the honourable member will recall, on Australian initiative made an annexe to the International Civil Aviation Organisation convention which did place noise on a high priority for consideration by a special committee that was set up under that convention. To my understanding, it has met already on several occasions. I would believe that, emerging from the discussions and the recommendations of this international committee, the member countries of ICAO probably will accept some recommendations in the future for the introduction of legislation which would govern this particular problem. But I am looking to a point which could be some time away yet. 
In the meantime, the Department of Civil Aviation has certain powers in this connection as far as airports are concerned. So far, the indications with the Boeing 747 are that the PNdBs involved are not greater, in fact are slightly less, than those of the latest type Boeing 707. On the tests so far, this seems to have been borne out, although some further regulation tests will need to be carried out before the matter is finalised. We have no knowledge at this moment about the actual operational problems involving supersonic commercial aircraft. I can assure the honourable member that my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation, is fully aware pf the matter and will take in consideration (he representations made by the honourable member. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this Bill is to carry out the Government's decision, concisely stated by His Excellency the Governor-General in his speech at the opening of the present session, to introduce legislation asserting and establishing the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to exercise sovereign control over the resources of the seabed off the Australian coast, from the low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf. At present, the State governments also claim sovereign rights in this same area. The Commonwealth believes that, except in respect of internal water's as they existed at federation, the States have no such rights. The legal issue is presently unresolved. The Government's view is that it would serve Australia's national and inter national interests to have the legal position resolved as soon as practicable. This will be a matter for decision by the courts. 
The present Bill declares and enacts that sovereignty in respect of the territorial sea and its seabed is vested in and is exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. It makes the same provision in respect of the internal waters of Australia, except as they existed at federation. In respect of the continental shelf, it declares and enacts that sovereign rights for the exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the shelf are vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. The present Bill will be followed later in this session by an off-shore mining Bill by which the Commonwealth will exercise sovereign control, in respect of mining for all minerals other than petroleum, on the seabed and in the subsoil of the whole area to which the authority of the Commonwealth extends. But neither Bill will affect the existing agreements between the Commonwealth and the States concerning off-shore petroleum or the legislation giving effect to those agreements. 
The exercise by any state, that is to say any country, of sovereign legislative authority and proprietary rights beyond its land territory is part of its international relation and is regulated by international law as well as by the domestic law of the State itself. The international law of the sea is expressed partly in the form of customary rules that reflect the practice of states. In addition there are now several recent and important multilateral treaties or conventions, to all of which Australia is a party. I refer in particular to the four conventions which were adopted at the United Nations Conference on the law of the Sea in Geneva in 1958. These were the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone; the Convention on the High Seas; the Convention on Fishing and Conservation of the Living Resources of the High Seas; and the Convention On the Continental Shelf. All of these conventions are now in force. Australia, as a member of the United Nations, participated in the negotiations of these conventions, and in relation to other states the Commonwealth of Australia is exclusively responsible for the exercise of the rights and duties that the conventions embody. As between Australia and states which are not party to one or more of the conventions, their respective rights and duties are of course regulated by the general or customary international law, of which indeed the conventions were in large measure declaratory, and in which also the subsequent practice of states has tended to follow and adopt the rules embodied in the 1958 conventions. 
As a matter of internal or domestic law, it is part of the prerogative of the Crown, in the absence of legislation, to determine the areas to which its sovereignty extends and within which it will exercise its sovereign rights. The sovereign authority of a state within its land territory - 1 use the term 'state' in its international sense - is recognised also by international law; indeed, the unquestioned recognition of the sovereignty of the state within its land territory is the foundation on which the whole system of contemporary international law may be said to rest. In respect of claims by a state to exercise authority beyond its tend territory, the position is less clear, and the extent of the recognition accorded by international law to such claims has varied considerably in the course of modern history. For present purposes, however, it is clear that, at least since the end of the 18th century (in effect, that is to say, throughout the whole history of British settlement in Australia) international law has recognised a belt of the open seas adjacent to the coasts of  Her  Majesty's dominions as being within the sovereignty of  Her  Majesty. This marginal belt of the open seas has been variously described, but in contemporary usage it is now generally known as the territorial sea. This is the name that it bears in the relevant Geneva conventions. 
The territorial sea is measured outwards from a baseline along the coast. Normally this is the low-water line. But most of the world's coastlines are cut into by indentations commonly known for instance as gulfs, sounds, bays, estuaries or inlets which vary enormously in respect both of width of entrance and depth of penetration. The universally recognised practice of states has been to treat as integral parts of their territory, just like inland lakes and rivers, the more fully enclosed areas of sea within the indentations of the coast. Where the whole of a bay is thus claimed, it has been customary to draw a notional straight line from headland to headland across the entrance, to serve as the baseline for measuring the territorial' sea. Rules have been established to determine which indentations may be so treated, and to these rules 1 shall have to return later. All the waters of the sea on the landward side of the baseline of the territorial sea are known as 'internal waters'. 
The only significant difference between the territorial sea and the internal waters of a state is that international law confers on the ships of all states a right, known as the 'right of innocent passage', through the territorial sea of any state. This is part of customary international law, and' it is fully stated in the 1958 convention. Subject to I qualification that I shall mention later, a coastal state is not obliged to accord to foreign ships the right of passage through any of its internal waters. 
Beyond the internal waters of . a state and its territorial sea lie the 'high seas'. The central doctrine of the international law of the sea, as it emerged from the 19th century, is summed up in the phrase, -'the freedom of the high seas'. This doctrine comprises the freedoms of navigation and overflight, of fishing and of laying submarine cables and pipe-lines. Modern technological development led, however, to the recognition by international law, in the years that followed World War II, of the exclusive right of a coastal state to control the exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the seabed and subsoil not only of the territorial sea but of areas beyond it and adjacent to it. The critical step in the evolution of this recognition was taken by the United States, in what has become the historic 'Truman Proclamation' of 28th September 1945. Other states followed suit, including Australia in 1953 with proclamations directed particularly to ensuring Australian control of the living resources of these submarine lands - the pearl shell oyster in particular. The submarine lands concerned came to bear the generic title continental shelf. 
The subject was taken up actively by the International Law Commission of the United Nations, and a Convention on the Continental Shelf was adopted in Geneva in 1958. The .position both under customary international law and in the 1958 convention is expressed in the current rule that the coastal state exercises over the continental shelf sovereign rights for the purpose of exploring it and exploiting its natural resources'. Honourable members will notice that this formula does not accord to the coastal state 'sovereignty' in respect of the continental shelf, but only certain specified sovereign rights'. These rights, moreover, are expressly stated in the convention not to affect the legal status of the superjacent waters as high seas; the same rule exists under customary international law, as the practice of states at present stands. 
International law has adopted specific, though flexible, rules for determining where the territorial sea and the continental shelf begin, but not for determining their seaward limits. As to the breadth of the territorial sea the practice of states varies enormously. Claims with varying degrees of recognition range from 3 to 200 miles. The measure of disagreement at the Geneva Conference was so great as to prevent the adoption of any provision as to breadth for inclusion in the 1958 convention. At present, 12 miles seems to be the most widely favoured breadth. Australia, however, in common with the United Kingdom, the United States, France and a number of other states, at present asserts a 3-mile territorial sea, and is not bound to recognise any wider claim on the part of other states. 
Basically, the continental shelf is a geological or geomorphological concept. The central idea is that what is generally called the 'continental shelf is the natural prolongation, into and under the sea, of the land territory of a coastal state. How far out, and down, the coastal state's rights should be recognised as extending has not so far been resolved. There are strong arguments that they would continue down to the point at which, by stages known as the 'continental slope' and the 'continental rise', the adjacent seabed descends to and merges in the deep ocean floor, or what is generally known as the 'abyssal plain'. Just to complete the current terminology, let me mention that the upper 'shelf proper, together with the 'slope' and the 'rise', comprises what is generally known as the continental margin'. The 1958 convention leaves undefined the seaward limit of the continental shelf. What Article 1 says is that, for the purpose of the Articles, the term 'continental shelf is used as referring to:  the seabed and subsoil of the submarine areas adjacent to the coast but outside the area of the territorial sea to a depth of 200 metres or, beyond that limit, to where the depth of the superjacent waters admits of the exploitation of the natural resources of the said areas.' 
The extent of the submarine areas thus brought within the limits of national jurisdiction and authority is at present the subject of active discussion in the United Nations. For present purposes, however, it is not necessary to adopt any fixed position on the international questions involved. The present Bill is concerned rather with the internal or domestic question whether Australia's internationally recognised rights, whatever their extent is or may become are exercisable by the Commonwealth or by the States. 
In the case of a federal state, where for domestic purposes supreme legislative and executive power is divided between the federation and its component states or provinces, the question frequently arises whether the control of off-shore resources is exercisable, as a matter of internal constitutional law, by the federation itself, or by its component states or provinces, or is shared between both. This question has been specifically answered by the courts in both of the 2 overseas federations which are of particular interest to Australia - the United States and Canada. In the United States, the matter was litigated in the Supreme Court by the State of California, and subsequently by other States. In Canada by virtue of a special legislative provision, the question was referred to the Supreme Court, at the instance of the Federation itself in relation to the Province of British Columbia. In both federations, the Supreme Court answered the basic question in the same way. Sovereign control over the mineral resources of both the territorial sea and the continental shelf was held to be vested in the Federation alone, to the exclusion of the component States or Provinces. 
In all candour, I should inform the House that in neither of these two federal communities has the Federal Government maintained in its entirety, as against the 
States or Provinces, the full extent of the authority accorded to it by the courts. In the United States, Congress expressly vested in the coastal States, by its own legislative Act, complete authority over the oil and gas resources of the territorial sea, though retaining for the United States sole control in the outer continental shelf. In Canada, negotiations between the Federation and the Provinces are still in progress, but the Government of Canada has offered the provinces the administration of limited areas adjacent to the coast, and a share of the revenues from off-shore mineral exploitation in the areas federally administered. But I repeat that, alike in the United States and Canada, the Constitution was held to vest exclusive off-shore control in the Federation, as the Government asserts in the present Bill here; the concessions to the States and Provinces were not required by law but were made as the result of political decisions, the question of legal authority having already been answered in the Federation's favour. The Commonwealth Government likewise has made clear to the States that in asserting sovereign legal authority in the off-shore area it has no intention to exclude the States altogether from administrative responsibilities in, or from the revenues arising from, the exploitation of off-shore mineral resources. But it is, we think, necessary first to clarify fully the legal position. 
Here in Australia, as honourable members will recall, the Government reached a compromise in 1967 in respect of the control of the oil and gas resources of offshore areas that was different from what has been done either in the United States or in Canada. By agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, the constitutional issue was expressly set on one side. Both the Commonwealth and the States reserved their respective legal positions in their entirety, but established the control of off-shore petroleum resources on a dual basis, designed to avoid the uncertainties and delays of litigation and to give to the interested private companies a secure title which would warrant their proceeding immediately with the extremely costly venture of off-shore exploration and exploitation. 
The agreed method involved the enactment of identical or mirror-image legislation by the Commonwealth and each State, each providing for the issue of permits in respect of mining for petroleum on the sea bed of the territorial sea and the continental shelf on the basis of a common mining code. Every successful applicant would receive permits under both the Commonwealth and the State Act. The Stales would administer the common scheme. The State Minister responsible for mines would therefore act in two capacities - in the exercise of powers derived respectively from the legislation of his own State and from that of the Commonwealth as well. In granting permits, the State Minister would act in accordance with the decision of (he Commonwealth in respect of such distinctively federal matters as external affairs, defence, overseas and interstate trade including navigation and shipping, fisheries beyond territorial limits, and postal telegraphic telephonic and other like services. Royalties would be divided between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The scheme of the off-shore petroleum agreement was fully explained by the previous Minister for National Development on 1 8th October 1967, in his second reading speech on the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill, 1967. For present purposes it is not necessary to enter further into the details of these arrangements. They were accepted with a view primarily to facilitate and expedite the work of off-shore oil and gas exploration and exploitation, and in this objective they were highly successful. 
The basis of the constitutional compromise of 1967 was criticised by some at the time, and honourable members will recall thai one of the terms of reference of a select committee of the Senate, appointed after the passage of the 1967 Act, was to report on the constitutional aspects of the petroleum legislation. Subsequent events have served to underline the strength of the view which indeed the Commonwealth had put to the States during the earlier discussions, that strictly in point of law the Constitution would permit the Commonwealth to go it alone in ihe whole off-shore area below low-water mark, including both the territorial sea and the continental shelf. 1 refer first to the unanimous decision of the Supreme Court of Canada, which 1 have already mentioned and which was given shortly after the British North America Act the exclusive right to control the off-shore mineral resources of Canada, .outwards from the low-water mark, belonged to the Federation, to the total exclusion of the Provinces. Then a year ago, in an address to the Australian Conservation Foundation,  Sir Percy  Spender, Q.C., a distinguished former Commonwealth Minister and member of this House who later became  President  of the International Court of Justice, expressed the view that the off-shore rights of the Commonwealth under the Australian Constitution were as complete and as exclusive of the rights of the States as those established by the Supreme Court of Canada as belonging there to the Federation. 

 Sir Percy Spender urged that the views he had expressed should be tested in the High Court of Australia. The present Bill could provide the basis for litigation to that end. But I should mention also that in August 1969, in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia and  Mr Justice  Windeyer look occasion to state their considered opinion on the respective off-shore rights of the Commonwealth and the States. A fisherman had been convicted under the Fisheries Act of the Commonwealth of using prohibited gear some six miles off the coast of New South Wales, that is, beyond the territorial sea. On appeal, he contended, inter alia, that the Act was invalid, because Commonwealth power did not extend beyond the territorial sea. All 6 members of the High Court rejected this contention. Three justices did not consider the matter further at all, one did so, but without finding it necessary to decide the further questions involved. The judgments of the Chief Justice and  Sir Victor  Windeyer do not therefore constitute a formal decision by the full High Court. They are, however, however, obviously relevant for present purposes.  Sir Garfield  Barwick held that: 
at common law, in Australia as in England, the territory of the Queen's realms ended at the low-water mark, and did not extend to any part of the seabed beyond; 
the Queen's assertion of sovereignty in the territorial sea, recognised by international law, was not delegated to or conferred on the Australian colonies before federation. They 'were not at any stage international personae or sovereign'. Any extended authority beyond the realm arising from international arrangements 'accrued only to 
Great Britain, and not to her colonies or her dominions or their territories in their own right'; 
at some time before the adoption of the 1958 conventions on the Territorial Sea and the Continental Shelf, Australia had become an independent nation state, and the rights recognised by those conventions accrued in their entirety to the Commonwealth of Australia. 
In these circumstances, the Government feels that, without prejudice to the petroleum agreement and to the action that has been taken in pursuance of it, the constitutional issue should now be decided once and for all, and without delay. Until it is so decided, the Commonwealth cannot either disclaim responsibility for what is done in off-shore areas or itself take appropriate action. The Bill asserts what the Government believes to be the rights of the Commonwealth, broadly in accordance with the judicial views I have mentioned. If the States are not prepared to accept as definitive the judgments of the Chief Justice of Australia and  Mr Justice  Windeyer in Bonser v. La Macchia, it is their right to commence proceedings which will raise squarely for decision by the full High Court any issues they wish to contest. It remains to touch briefly on the main lines of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, leaving until the committee stage any questions of detailed exposition, which indeed could become very technical. 
The Bill is short, and does 3 main things. Firstly, in the formula customarily used where an Act is regarded as stating the law as it already exists, as well as possibly making new law, the Bill declares and enacts that the sovereignty in the territorial sea is vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth - this is in clause 5; similarly that the sovereign rights of Australia for the exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the continental shelf are vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth - this is in clause 10; and that sovereignty in the internal waters of Australia, with the important exception of waters that were internal waters of the States at the time of federation, and still remain such, is likewise vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth - this is in clauses 9 and 11, which must be read together. 
Perhaps I should say a word or two more about the question of internal waters. As I have said clause 9. vesting in the Commonwealth the sovereignty in respect of these waters, must be read together with the saving provision in clause 11. This latter clause makes clear that the Act will not apply to waters that at federation were within the limits of a State and still remain within the limits of the State. If clause 9 stood alone, it might give rise to apprehensions that the Commonwealth was claiming sovereignty in respect of the waters of bays such as Port Jackson or Port Phillip. But clause II makes clear that the Bill does no such thing. These bays and harbours were within the limits of a State at federation, and remain so. The same will be true of the internal waters of many bays, gulfs, inlets, ports or harbours around the coast. 
One obvious example of the kind of internal waters to which clause 9 does apply, and in respect of which sovereignty is clearly exercisable by the Commonwealth, may be found in the Northern Territory. Here, any interna] waters were within the limits of South Australia at the time of federation but passed to the Commonwealth when the Northern Territory was surrendered. Nothing in clause I I will, or for that matter should, prevent the application of clause 9 to these waters. But there are also off-shore waters which have become or may become internal waters of Australia by virtue of changes in international law since federation. Clause 9 will operate in respect of these waters, and sovereignty will be exercisable accordingly by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. 
The second main thing that the Bill does is to provide for the delimitation of coastal waters. Both customary international law and the 1958 Convention on the Territorial Sea now recognise the validity, on deeply indented coasts or where there is a fringe of islands in the immediate vicinity of the coast, of using as the baseline for measuring the breadth of the territorial sea a straight line drawn from headland to headland along the coast, instead of measuring from the low water mark and thereby following all the sinuosities of the coast. It is emphasised in Article 4 of the Convention that the drawing of such baselines 'must not depart to any appreciable extent from the general direction of the coast'. Waters on the landward side of the baseline are, of course, the internal waters of the coastal state. 
The inevitable result of drawing straight base Lines along a coast will be to bring into the category of internal waters areas of sea that formerly formed part of the territorial sea, or even in some cases of the high seas beyond. Accordingly, by Article 5 of the Convention, the coastal state is obliged to accord a right of innocent passage through areas which previously had been considered as part of the territorial sea or of the high seas. Since these waters are to be subject internationally to the same regime as the territorial sea, they should be subject to the like Commonwealth control. 
The same principle applies in the case of bays. At the time of federation, the general law was that the baseline of the territorial sea followed around the coast except where it encountered a bay whose width at the entrance was not more than 6 miles, that is, twice the then generally accepted breadth of the territorial sea. In that event the baseline of the territorial sea passed as a notional straight line across the entrance from headland to headland. Article 7 of the 1958 Convention now permits a bay-closing straight line up to 24 miles in length, either across the entrance or, in the case of wider bays, at the point where a straight line of no more than 24 miles can first be drawn. 
As I mentioned earlier, it is part of the prerogative of the Crown to declare the limits of the territory in which it claims sovereignty. The Bill, by clause 6, gives to the Governor-General statutory authority to exercise these powers by proclamation, not inconsistently with the Territorial Sea Convention. Honourable members will notice that clause 6 makes specific provision for the determination from time to time, by proclamation, of the breadth of the territorial sea. As I mentioned earlier, there is no universally accepted rule on this point at present, either by convention or in the customary law of nations. 
The provisions of clause 7, dealing with historic bays and other historic waters, and clause 8, dealing with the issue of official charts, can perhaps be left for exposition at the Committee stage. But I should note that any bays or waters declared in pursuance of clause 7 to be historic, as contrasted with bays that were already historic before federation, would come into the category of post-federation internal waters, to which clause 9 would apply. 
Thirdly, the saving provisions of the Bill ensure that the establishment of the sovereign rights of the Commonwealth in off-shore areas will not impair existing State ownership and control of wharves and other port facilities, and will not create anything in the way of an automatic legal vacuum, especially in the territorial sea. It would do so if it rendered invalid all existing State legislation in the off-shore areas to which the operative provisions of the Bill apply. But it is clear, and was expressly recognised by the Chief Justice and  Mr Justice  Windeyer in Bonser v. La Macchia, that pre- 1900 the colonies were competent, as the States still are, by virtue of their plenary power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the territory assigned to them, to make laws that would operate extra-territorially - that is to say, beyond their land boundaries and in and on the territorial sea and, where necessary, the high seas beyond. There are many such laws in existence. Criminal law is an obvious case. State mining legislation is another. 
What the Bill necessarily implies is that henceforward the off-shore legislative powers of the States must always be read as subject, by reason of section 109 of the Constitution, to the. paramount and invalidating effect of an inconsistent Commonwealth law. But clause 13 makes clear that State laws, existing or future, are not to be invalidated by the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Act in and of itself, unless of course a State were to pass an Act expressly declaring for instance that, in defiance of clause 5, sovereignty in the territorial sea was exercisable not by the Commonwealth but by the State itself. With such extreme and hypothetical exceptions, clause 13 ensures that if a State law, existing or future, is to be over-ridden by a law of the Commonwealth, it would have to be done in future and ad hoc. An example which will come at once to mind will be the proposed new off-shore mining legislation. This may be expected, when it comes into opera tion, to displace any existing State law inconsistent with it and to exclude any such State law for the future. 
Similarly, clause 13 makes clear that the Bill, when it becomes law, will not of itself either limit or exclude the operation of any Commonwealth law, existing or future. Any future modification of Commonwealth law will likewise have to be effected ad hoc. A particular result of clause 13 is thus to ensure the continued operation of the offshore petroleum legislation, both Commonwealth and State, as enacted in pursuance of the 1967 agreement. 
I have mentioned that this Bill will be followed later in the session by a Bill which will apply a mining code to the off-shore areas in respect of which the present Bill establishes Commonwealth authority. That later Bill will provide the detailed rules under which mining titles may be issued and exploration and exploitation carried on for all minerals other than petroleum. Under that legislation policy decisions will fall to be made by the Commonwealth and such matters as the selection among applicants, the settlement of areas to be granted and of work obligations will be subject to the direction of the Commonwealth Minister. 
We do hope that it will prove possible to arrange with the States for them to administer that legislation somewhat as they administer the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) legislation of the Commonwealth, but subject to what I have just said about Commonwealth responsibilities. If the States cooperate with us in this way in administration we propose that they shall receive 60% of all royalties that may be payable to the Commonwealth, and also all administrative fees. 
The legislation will contain provisions enabling the Commonwealth to honour titles granted by the States before it came into operation and it is our intention, broadly speaking, to honour such titles where they were granted before 26th September 1969, or after that date if there had been consultation with and concurrence by the Commonwealth. I commend the present Bill to the House. 
As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is aware, at present the Gulf of Carpentaria is largely international waters. At the moment the territorial sea is under the jurisdiction of Queensland. So from low water mark out the present legislation would give sovereignty to the Commonwealth. I might add that the definition of internal waters is something we have to discuss further. I have mentioned that we hope to be able to obtain agreement from the States about administration. A number of these matters relate to a further Bill which will not be available for a few weeks. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
These funds were established in 1965. The Australian Government has not contributed. Contributions have, however, been raised by private organisations in Australia. 
A submission was made to our Ambassador in Phnom Penh asking for military equipment to be supplied. At the present time this submission is being considered by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The amount of capital advances that will actually be made to the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority in each year will depend on appropriations made by Parliament. However, the following capital advances would be required each year in order to complete the scheme by 1974/5. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Studies by the State of Western Australia and the Northern Division of my Department in cooperation on an evaluation of the irrigation potential of the Gaseoyne River are still in progress. 
See (1) above. 
As part of the evaluation referred to in (1) above the Northern Division has been undertaking a study of the marketing prospects for crops which may be grown on irrigable land along the Gascoyne River. 
Yes. Conclusions from the studies, which have been carried out by the State, indicate that in this area of eratic catchment flow and high evaporation it is not feasible to construct a major dam on the Gascoyne River for irrigation purposes. As an alternative, an examination by the States of the feasibility of smaller storages and aquifer recharging together with the development of underground water supplies, is proceeding on lines recommended by engineering consultants engaged by the State Government, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government has provided the State of New South Wales with $8.0m by way of non-repayable grants for flood mitigation schemes on the Hunter and other rivers in the State. 
Nil. 
No. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Measures are taken by way of security fences, notices and patrols by traffic officers to prevent access of unauthorised persons to aircraft movement areas of main airports. Additional to normal departmental arrangements both the Commonwealth and Stale Police contribute to the general surveillance. The airlines also have their own quite comprehensive security arrangements as they are responsible for security measures in their own apron and hangar areas. 
A major deterrent to acts of sabotage or stowing away in aircraft is the fact that such acts are offences against the Crimes (Aircraft) Act and certain Air Navigation Regulations, which offences carry severe penalties. 
Day to day experience throughout the Commonwealth suggests the precautions taken along the lines just mentioned are adequate. Even so, the honourable member may be assured that a further review is being made of the existing arrangements in the light of this experience. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. I issued a press statement to this effect on 17th March 1970. A copy of this statement is being made available to the Honourable member. 
See (2) above. 
The honourable member and the member for Cowper have raised this matter with me on a number of occasions recently and in view of their interest everything possible is being done to expedite the decision as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. I did explain previously that in the previous water resources development scheme 4 projects had been left at the termination of the scheme at the end of last year. When the Prime Minister announced that a new fund of $100m would be established to assist the States over the next 5 years he announced also that the 4 proposals which had been received prior to that date would be considered under the new scheme. Resulting from that we informed the New South Wales Government that the flood mitigation proposal which it had submitted would be considered under the new scheme. We submitted to it the details of the normal information which is required and the New South Wales Government obtained the information from the departments concerned. There have been some informal discussions between my Department and the 2 departments concerned in New South Wales and my understanding now is that all the information that is required in order to make a decision is now available and we would expect that the Premier will be writing to the Prime Minister during the next few days with the full information that is required. I can give an undertaking that as soon as it is received the interdepartmental committee which examines these proposals will sit immediately and after its recommendation is received it will be considered fairly quickly by the Government. 
I did read some Press statements relating to this matter. I am sorry to say that both the 2 Press statements that I saw were incorrect. First of all1, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission did not give any instructions in relation to a paper that was to be presented to this symposium, as has been mentioned by the honourable member. But it is a fact that a member of the Commission,  Mr Davy,  had been asked whether he would present a paper and he was proceeding to do so. This was delayed to some degree in view of the survey on the environment which is proceeding at the present time. The manuscript for this paper was read the day before the symposium was to commence. The basis of the manuscript was made public but it was indicated to the  chairman  of the symposium that the paper would not be available for presentation at that time. That was accepted and understood. The paper, when it is finally edited and completed, will be presented later this year. 
I would like to make clear the second point that was referred to and which was brought out in the Press reports, that is, that this particular paper was to refer to the establishment of the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. This is entirely incorrect, because at this point of time we do not know the type of nuclear power plant that will be installed. We have only recently called for tenders for the plant. They will not close until next month and the selection will not be completed until the contract is finalised, we expect, in about October this year. Until such time as we are aware of the type of power plant and the type of fuel that will1 be used it will not be possible to prepare any paper dealing with the subject. However, the paper referred to by the honourable member dealt in a general sense with the effect of effluent from a nuclear power station on the ecology of the country. That is the basic paper that has been pre pared and that will be presented when it has been completed and edited, on an appropriate occasion later this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The River Murray Commission received three Interim Reports and five Progress Reports on the Murray Valley salinity investigations from its salinity consultants, Messrs Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey. These reports were dated as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Construction of works of the Snowy Mountains Scheme has cost approximately $720 million to date, exclusive of interest. These works include all facilities for the control, storage, diversion and release of water as well as for power production. Separate costs of works in respect of (a) water storage and (b) power generation have not been kept as they are inseparable in most instances. 
The whole of the expenditure to date in constructing the Snowy Mountains Scheme, that is S720 million approximately, has been financed by advances from Consolidated Revenue under Capital Works and Services, with the exception of advances totalling $90 million which were financed by the Commonwealth from a loan obtained from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
The cost of the Snowy Scheme is being repaid over 70 years by annual instalments of depreciation included in the Authority's net cost of production of electricity. This net cost of production is paid for by the A.C.T. Electricity Authority and the Electricity Commissions of New South Wales and Victoria in proportion to the electricity received from the Scheme by the Australian Capital Territory and the two States. 
The interest rates used in the calculations are the long-term Commonwealth bond rates at the time advances are received by the Authority. These interest rates have varied between 31% and 6% per annum. 
Up to 30th June 1969 $6,362 million of capital moneys (advances) has been repaid. This amount represents the depreciation included in the net cost of production as mentioned in the answer to (3). 
Repayments are made by the Snowy Mountains Authority to the Commonwealth Treasury out of moneys received from the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority and the Electricity Commissions of New South Wales and Victoria. 
Approximately $127,138 million in interest has been paid to the Commonwealth Treasury by the Authority up to 30th June 1969, comprising: 
Million  $6,092 Interest accumulated during construction. $121,046 Interest on capital invested in revenue producing projects. 
The above amounts of interest have formed part of the Authority's net cost of production of electricity and as such have been met by the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority and the Electricity Commissions of New South Wales and Victoria. 
Now that an announcement has been made regarding the date for the forthcoming independence of Fiji  1  am sure that the Government and the people of Australia extend best wishes to the new nation which will emerge after that date and express the hope that there will be a continuation of the very happy relationshi p that has existed in so many fields, particularly in the field of aviation. I do know a little about the background of this because last year I was the  chairman  of the South Pacific Air Transport Council and I did call a meeting during the year to discuss a number of matters with particular reference to the future of aviation in the Pacific, and certainly a number of the points that the honourable member mentioned arose during that conference. The normal position is that when there is a change of this type the existing aviation arrangements under the current agreement continue for some time until the government of the new nation decides that it wishes to make a further approach. I would assume that the present arrangement as far as the use of Nandi is concerned and also the agreement for operation there would continue after Fiji gains its independence. At present, as honourable members know, the Nandi Airport is controlled to some degree by the South Pacific Air Transport Council and finance, in a capital sense and in a maintenance sense, is contributed by various partners in the Council for the operation of the airport. So we would assume that the same arrangement would continue for some time - until such time as the new government wishes to undertake negotiations with the other countries concerned. Certainly I know that Australia would be very happy to consider a new agreement at some point of time in the future if the Fiji Government makes an approach. 
On the question of Fiji Airways operations to Australia, this of course, would not be visualised at the moment. It is solely a matter within the control of the new government when it eventually takes over. I should imagine that it may be a long term thought that the new government may consider, but at this point of time it would not be possible to comment on what its attitude would be. On the final point, as to the protection of the Qantas interest in Fiji Airways, there is and has been a very fruitful association with Qantas as the Australian representative and the board of Fiji Airways with Australia conducting the management of Fiji Airways. We would hope that this situation would continue in future and there is nothing in existing circumstances to make us think it would be otherwise. 
"The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
T.A.A. has stated that to provide a detailed analysis covering 12 months operations of flights 406 and 410 between Melbourne and Canberra would be a difficult and lengthy project because the necessary information is not readily available. However it selected 3 months - the 12 weeks to 31st October 1969 - arid produced detailed information in relation to this period:  (0  Flight 406- Of the total 45 nights planned and operated during the 12 weeks, 24 Sights departed 'on time' (53.3%), 13 departed within 15 minutes (progressive percentage 82.2%) and 8 departed over 15 minutes late. 
Flight 410- Of the total 70 flights planned during the 12 weeks,! 67 flights operated - two were cancelled because of weather conditions and one because of extended mechanical trouble. 
Of the 67 flights operated, 44 departed &lt;on time' (65.7%), 14 departed within IS minutes (progressive percentage 86.6%) and 9 departed over 15 minutes late. 
The reason for and extent of each delay; and 
The number occurring on Tuesdays, were as follows: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Permission was not sought by Ansett Airlines to fly a Boeing 727 from Melbourne to Sydney on 8th March 1970 at 11.00 p.m. The airline did operate a special flight but it departed Melbourne at 9.28 p.m. 
The Boeing 727 departed Sydney on the return trip to Melbourne at 1.07 a.m. the next morning (9th March 1970). This flight was approximately an hour behind schedule due to technical requirements and cargo handling difficulties. Permission was granted for this flight. 
A computer for the Melbourne Stock Exchange was due to arrive in Sydney on 8th March 1970. The airline had been requested to transport it to Melbourne in time for it to be installed during the holiday of 9th March 1970. The computer weighed a total of 17,000 lbs, the two largest sections each weighing 2,500 lbs. The airline advised that the dimensions of the largest pieces were such as to require assigning the Boeing 727 to the task, and the aircraft was not available from Melbourne until after 9.00 p.m. 
Shipping: Loss of 'Bolivar Maru' (Question No. 791) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable Member's question: 
Olims Consolidated Ltd. through ils  subsidiary  and associated companies, currently holds the following airport concessions. In each case, Olims was chosen as the most suitable of tenders received as a result of public invitation - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought  is  very detailed and the necessary statistics are not available  in  relation to the cost to the Commonwealth Government. The statistics  of  State Government expenditure are not known  to  the Commonwealth Government in the form sought. I regret, therefore, that I am unable  to  provide answers  to  the several parts of the question asked by the honourable member. 
Papua and New Guinea: Case of Councillor ToRangis (Question No. 734) 
In accordance with the undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and with the concurrence of the State Ministers for Mines, 1 now table correspondence between the Minister for National Development and the State Ministers for Mines relating to offshore minerals other than petroleum between 26th February 1969 and 9th December 1969, together with the transcript of proceedings of meetings of the Australian Minerals Council held on 3rd March 1969 and 26th September 1969 referring to off-shore minerals other than petroleum. There is no relevant correspondence on this subject in the above period between the Prime Minister and the Premiers or between the Commonwealth Attorney-General and the State Attorneys-General. 
The debate on this important Bill, the Gladstone Power Station Agreement Bill, has been a constructive one. Each  speaker  has brought out a number of points which are of vital importance. Earlier in the debate a number of questions were asked by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  He referred to the lack of information about the charges for electricity supplied in the region from the Gladstone power house. It was pointed out in the speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  when he introduced the Bill that such information is confidential to the 
Queensland Government and the operators concerned. 1 can only repeat that, whilst I appreciate the interest shown in the matter, we have all that information in a report which was prepared by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority for the Commonwealth for an interdepartmental committee. The information was available to the Commonwealth but, in view of its confidential nature as far as the Queensland Gevernment is concerned, we cannot disclose it here. The only comment I can make is that, because of the confidential nature of the information asked for by the honourable member, we cannot provide it. 
The honourable member for Lang asked: How far will the local transmission be? In other words, he asked what area it would cover. It will be purely local transmission. It will cover an area which is visualised in the present circumstances as having a diameter of a few miles. I have had the opportunity fairly recently of inspecting the site. It is ideally situated for industrial development. The whole of the industrial complex visualised can be in close proximity to the power station, and the transmission which is visualised will be purely on a local basis. We cannot visualise how far it will continue in the future. In the foreseeable future it will certainly be purely local transmission. A question was raised about the voltage which will be carried over the lines in the local transmission. I cannot answer that question offhand. It is a technical matter. The voltage will probably vary in accordance with the specific requirements of the plants concerned. If the honourable member requires additional information on this matter at a later stage when the power house is under way and when we know more about the plants that will be established there, we will certainly be able to get that information for him. 
He asked also why preferential treatment was being given to unnamed companies and I think this was based on the belief that there could be some concession in relation to power charges. We cannot provide the information in relation to power charges but I can give an assurance that no preferential treatment is being given to the 2 companies that have been suggested will go into production in that region. The same charges will apply to everyone in similar circumstances. The honourable member also asked whether any requests had been made to the Government for special concessions in relation to power charges. No such applications have been made to the Commonwealth and I do not know of any that have been made to the State. 
There was a request also for particulars to be provided regarding cost escalation. lt is not possible to provide information on this over a long term period because we cannot visualise what the changes would be in the cost structure over a period of some years. However in the short term it will be possible to obtain some early information after the power house goes into operation - it would be difficult to provide it before. So if at that point of time the information is still required we can obtain it then. The question was also raised regarding the period of the loan. Originally the 6-year period had been mentioned and, in accordance with the announcement of the Prime Minister, that has been extended, as the honourable member for Lang quite rightly said, to 7 years 9 months. There was an inference that this meant there wouk be a longer construction period. This is nol so. The date was changed to conform to the original announcement because during this period there have been some preliminary costs to the Queensland Government. We wanted to make sure they would be covered and that is the reason why the change was made in that respect. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  made a constructive contribution, as usual, to the debate. One point he raised I would like to clear up. He asked that there be some form of continuing evaluation. I am happy to tell him that this can and certainly will be done. In clause 12 of the Bill the State is empowered to and will furnish the Minister for National Development with certain information as required in relation to planning, design and execution of the works and so on and also, at a later stage, full particulars of the consumption of electricity from the works. In other words, at the request of the Commonwealth the State can and will provide, because it has agreed to do so, information which will be the basis of a continuing evaluation, as we anticipate there will be further expansion taking place in this region. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  with his background of previous interest in northern development, made a sound contribution to the debate. He referred to the critical importance of the interest rate involved. Of course, we quite agree with him on that matter. 1 do not know whether he clearly brought out the point that the interest charges, which at the present time are agreed to be at the rate of 6.4% - the local authority borrowing rate throughout Australia - under a provision in an arrangement quoted by the Prime Minister will not be payable during the early stages of the construction of the project thus reducing the overall interest cost to something below 6.4%. This is entirely acceptable to the Queensland Government and will certainly be of great value over the period of the loan in the cost factor to the Government. 
The central Queensland region possesses great development potential. The region contains an imposing array of natural resources; it possesses great scope for agricultural and pastoral expansion; it contains extensive mineral resources, notably large deposits of coal including cheaply available good grade steaming coal; there is potential for large water conservation schemes for industrial development purposes and there are good ports and harbours. Current industrial expansion in the Gladstone area of central Queensland is already impressive and in particular the alumina plant at Gladstone has expanded at a rate exceeding most expectations. Apart from this current industrial expansion in the area, the factors which I have mentioned present favourable prospects for the establishment of other basic manufacturing industries, together with associated industries. These prospects hinge in the main on the provision of a lowcost power supply. Low-cost power, coupled with the other advantages in this area, will enable the establishment of large scale industries, low cost by world standards, and able to compete successfully on world markets. 
In recognition of the development potential of the central Queensland area, the Queensland Government approached the Commonwealth for capital assistance in order that a power station could be built at Gladstone to provide the high load factor, low-cost supply required to attract major export oriented industries to the area. As the Prime Minister indicated in the second reading speech on this Biil, these proposals were closely examined by both the Commonwealth and the State and under the agreement the State will be provided with a loan of S80m to assist in bringing the power station into being, lt is important to realise that the significance of the project goes far beyond the proposal to erect a power station. As I have already said, one of the major purposes is to attract large-scale industry and the State has already proceeded a substantial distance towards finalising negotiations for the establishment of such industries. The project itself and the industries it will attract will require development of considerable infrastructure by way of transport facilities, housing, community services, industrial water supply and effluent disposal and other matters. Many service and ancillary industries will be set up. 
As the Prime Minister stated in his second reading speech the negotiations between the State and individual companies naturally are confidential. I can say, however, that we are aware that the State and representatives of industries are progressing very vigorously and successfully towards arrangements for utilising large blocks of power for major export oriented industries. The maior industries which seem likely in the short term are an aluminium industry and a major chemical industry using the extensive salt resources in the area and we are confident that operations in this field will commence in 2 or 3 years time. These two major industries, we are sure, will he only the start of large scale industrial development in the area and. together with the Queensland Government, we look forward to the impetus which will be provided by the power station. I believe that this impetus will result in a major step forward in decentralisation with self-sustaining growth and strong industrial expansion, with numerous consequential and cumulative effects being generated speedily and effectively. 
A study of the resources and industry of the central Queensland region and an outline of the development possibilities and resources potential of the region are set out in a report of the resources and industry of central Queensland prepared jointly by my Department and the Queensland 
Department of Industrial Development. Copies of this report were made available to honourable members last year and I commend this publication to those who wish to look more deeply into the possibilities of this northern region. While the major and real significance of this project lies in the development which flows as a result of it in the future we should not overlook the fact that the power station in itself is a project of major dimensions. The estimated cost of the station, together with local reticulation at Gladstone, at 1963 prices, is $155m, of which the Commonwealth will contribute $80m on the terms and conditions set out in the Bill. This will enable a power station with a capacity of the order of 1,100 megawatts to be built, a station comparable in size to the largest power station existing in Australia today and which when completed will still be amongst the largest. To complete the project the railway from Blackwater which will bring coal to the proposed power station will be upgraded. The State has already commenced construction of an interconnecting transmission line between the central Queensland and the southern Queensland grids. This interconnection will enable the new special industries to be initiated and operating in Gladstone, using southern power while the new power station is being built. Also, it will enable the use of larger generators because of the availability, with the integrated grid, of larger blocks of stand-by power and thus giving complementary benefits to power stations within both grids. 
In some of the central Queensland coalfields, as at Blackwater, coking coal is overlain by steaming coal. In open-cut mining of these deposits it is necessary to mine the steaming coal to obtain access to the coking coal. There is a ready export market for coking coal which is in short supply throughout the world. At present there is only a limited market for steaming coal in central Queensland or elsewhere. The Gladstone power station will provide a ready market for this surplus steaming coal which would otherwise be stockpiled. The State, under its agreements, has ensured that this coal will be available for the Gladstone power station. It will also be in a position to draw steaming coal from a number of other mines in central Queensland, thereby making certain a continuing supply at competitive prices. I would point out that the Commonwealth loan is not intended to assist the State with the normal development of the electricity supply system in Queensland. This is a normal State function and not a matter into which we would wish to intrude. The purpose of the Commonwealth loan is to meet the additional outlay involved in providing low cost power to attract export oriented industries to Central Queensland. These industries will be large continuous consumers of bulk power and will produce commodities for export, or to replace imports and are industries that might otherwise be lost to Australia. 
The Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the State Government, has done a great deal for central Queensland. One has only to think of the Commonwealth assistance with the brigalow land scheme, the beef roads programme and the Emerald irrigation project as well as assistance for port facilities to assist the development of the coal export industry, to realise how wide ranging and effective this assistance has been. Much of this investment is now beginning to repay handsomely or has already given substantial indication of the return which it will make in the future. I am sure that the additional Commonwealth investment in the Gladstone power station project will be one of the most rewarding developments yet seen in this potentially rich region. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The price charged for water in State irrigation projects is essentially a matter for the appropriate State authorities. However, the Slate submission regarding the Bundaberg Irrigation Project set out the proposed water charges, and I understand that no changes are intended as a result of the Commonwealth grant to assist with this project. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Jet departures used runway 23 (take-off towards the south-west) and jet arrivals used the reciprocal direction, runway OS approaching to land from the south-west. These are the most favourable take-off and landing directions from the point of view of noise alleviation. 
The night curfew which applies at Adelaide and most other capital city airports provides that the scheduling of jet aircraft operations is not permitted between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. except in special circumstances. These special circumstances may include off-schedule operations such as when aircraft may be unavoidably delayed by weather conditions, and special flights authorised to meet extraordinary demands of the travelling public during holiday periods. Approval of competent authority is required for such flights. 
Yes, 14 jet movements (8 departures and 6 arrivals) were approved by the Minister for operation in the curfew hours during the Easter vacation. 
Such flights are approved by the Minister for Civil Aviation because of public demand and convenience. No assurance can be given that similar flights will not be authorised in future. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) The honourable member is no doubt aware that the Government has set up an Interdepartmental Committee to study the need for timing and location of a second major airport to serve the city of Sydney. 
As a member of this Committee, the Department of Civil Aviation has considered numerous sites extending to some considerable distance from Sydney. 
One such site is located in the general area south of Toukley. 
Whether the finally selected site would be a domestic or international airport or a combination of both has not yet been determined. 
The list of possible sites has not yet been reduced to a few, which will then require much more detailed study before a final selection is made. 
Civil Aviation: DC9 Aircraft  (Question No. 321) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. A DC9 landed at Mascot during curfew hours on the night of 13th January 1970. 
The landing by the DC9 completed a scheduled flight from Melbourne. The Sight had been delayed by the late arrival of a connecting flight at Melbourne and by a technical requirement in relation to the aircraft's undercarriage. 
Other landings and take-offs of jet aircraft at Sydney Airport within curfew hours during each of the 4 months were: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) Recorded figures before April 1969 are not readily available for Sydney Airport. However for the period 1st April 1969 to 31st March 1970 the records show that there were 350 movements by jet aircraft during the curfew period 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. Of this total 178 were special flights arranged to meet the heavy traffic demands of holiday periods such as Christmas, New Year, Easter and other school holidays. 
The remainder (172) were scheduled services delayed unavoidably by adverse weather, or other special circumstances such as passenger embarkation problems. A significant number of these flights, although ready to depart from the apron area at their scheduled time of 11 p.m., could not become airborne until some minutes later. Figures giving an accurate breakdown of this total (172) are not available. 
It is noteworthy that of the total 350 jet movements recorded as operating in the curfew period, 248 of these used runway 16 for take-off or runway 34 for landing i.e. the most critical phase of the flights as far as noise disturbance is concerned was conducted over Botany Bay. 
Readily available information for Melbourne (Essendon) Airport dates from 1st May 1969. The May school holidays do not appear to have caused many jet aircraft operations during the curfew period 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. During the 1969-70 Christmas-New Year period there were 44 movements (16 departures, and 28 arrivals) in the curfew period spread over 20 days. During Easter of 1970 there were 36 such movements (14 departures and 22 arrivals) spread over a 6 day period. During the August-September school holidays there were 11 such movements (3 departures and 8 arrivals) spread over 6 days. Other movements by jet aircraft during the curfew period were scheduled services delayed on account of adverse weather or other special circumstances, and amount to very few each month. Precise figures are not available. 
AH the special flights mentioned in part 1 of the honourable member's question i.e. flights authorised to meet the heavy demands of holiday traffic were approved by the Minister for Civil Aviation. All other flights i.e. scheduled services which were delayed owing to special circumstances were approved by competent authority in the Department. 
Civil Aviation: Local Ownership of Airports (Question  No. 872)  Mr Charles  Jones asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Which Local Government Councils are operating airports under the Local Ownership scheme. 
What has been the expenditure and revenue in respect of each of these airports since the scheme commenced. 
How many movements occur annually at these airports. 
How many passengers are and how much freight is handled annually. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answers to questions (1), (2), (3) and (4), except for the revenue aspect of question (2), are contained in the attached table. 
We do not have revenue figures in respect of Local Ownership aerodromes. This is a matter for the Local Government Authorities directly concerned. 
The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
The River Murray Waters Agreement provides that New South Wales and Victoria share the waters of the River Murray at Albury, and retain the right individually to the use of waters in tributaries below Albury. This has been modified by the incorporation into the River Murray Waters Agreement of the Menindee Lakes Agreement by which the River Murray Commission has the right to use a portion of that storage. The right of the two upstream States to use water as outlined above is conditional upon their making available to South Australia the entitlements of that State, which at present amount to 1.2S4 million acre feet per annum, and which will be increased to 1.3 million acre feet per annum when the Dartmouth storage becomes effective. Thus the amount of water available to the two upstream States is not defined by the Agreement as is the case with South Australia. Supplies available vary from year to year depending on inflow conditions, and water allocations are based on a study of the performance of the river and storage system using inflow records going back for about 63 years. 
On the above basis, and assuming: 
the two upstream States are restricted to not less than 70% of normal supplies under the worst conditions, 
during periods of restriction available supplies are shared equally between the 3 States, as proposed when Dartmouth becomes effective. it has been calculated that - 
with the present storages, and South Australia's present entitlement of 1.254 million acre feet per annum, the total regulated supply available from the system is about 3.34 million acre feet per annum, 
with Dartmouth storage, and a South Australian entitlement of 1.3 million acre feet per annum, the total regulated supply available from the system is about 4.SS million acre feet per annum, an increase of 1.21 million acre feet per annum. 
With regard to the sharing of this increase, after increasing South Australia's entitlement the two upstream States together will have an additional 960,000 acre feet of water per annum. Studies showed that Victoria would receive greater benefit from this increase than New South Wales because of the greater contribution made to the system by Victorian tributaries. However, as one of the conditions of the Agreement to proceed wilh Dartmouth, Victoria agreed to cede to New South Wales the right to the use of part of the Victorian tributary inflow, the effect of which is to equalise benefits received by the two States from the additional water available after Dartmouth becomes effective. Hence each State will receive substantially the same amount of additional water, namely 480,000 acre feet per annum. 
The use of additional supplies made available by the works of the River Murray Commission is, of course, the responsibility of the individual States concerned and not of the Commission itself nor of the Commonwealth. However the following comments indicate the general pattern of expected water use. 
It must be stressed that the additional supplies mentioned above are not in effect additional to present requirements for irrigation in the New South Wales and Victorian systems dependent on the River Murray. The Agreement to proceed with Chowilla in 1963 was based largely on the need for additional regulated flow in - order to avoid the necessity for unduly severe restrictions to existing supplies during dry periods. Hence, there is at this stage an urgent need for additional supplies in order to safeguard existing commitments, and this is particularly true in New South Wales. In Victoria there is more scope for provision of some additional supplies, and the Government has in fact already announced its intention to increase water allocations to existing irrigators in the Goulburn-Murray systems. In neither State is there likely to be any significant expansion of irrigation into new areas. 
In the light of the information given above, there are not expected to be any significant projects, in the normal sense of that word, on which cost/benefit analysis could be carried out. As can be seen, the likely patterns of development involve many complex factors and detailed economic analysis would be a very difficult exercise. However some indication of the economy of the proposal is given by the fact that the additional water will be made available for a capital cost of approximately $30 per acre foot of additional water per annum, which is very low by present-day Australian standards. The attractiveness of the proposal is further enhanced by the fact that there is relatively little additional private or public capital involved in making use of this water in New South Wales and Victoria. 
It might be added that the Dartmouth project is to replace another project, at Chowilla, previously approved by the 4 Parliaments, and has been shown by the results of published studies to be very much more attractive economically than the project it is replacing. 
In general terms, it could be expected that additional diversions for irrigation in New South Wales and Victoria would result in some deterioration in water quality in the River Murray. However, as mentioned above, a considerable part of the additional water made available by the Dart- mouth project will be used to ensure that present commitments are met with reasonable reliability. The Dartmouth project will therefore not be accompanied by an expansion in irrigation development of the magnitude that might otherwise be expected, so that the effect on salinity in this case should be relatively small. Furthermore, the increase in South Australia's entitlement to water, after Dartmouth becomes effective, should be of particular value in this regard, because of the additional water available to that State in dry years when salinity tends to be more serious. 
Detailed comment on this matter is expected to be included in the report which the River Murray Commission is expecting from its consultants on salinity within the next month or two. It seems likely that, as in the past, it will be necessary, as development of the water resources of the basin proceeds in the future, to pay continuing attention to operational and other measures to retain satisfactory quality in the lower Murray. 
First of all I would express disappointment that the agreement for the construction of the Dartmouth storage on the Murray system was not proceeded with by the South Australian Parliament, because we know that it is to the definite advantage of South Australia to proceed with that agreement. The honourable member has asked a number of questions which relate first of all to the Government and Parliament of South Australia and the governments and parliaments of New South Wales, Victoria and the Commonwealth. As far as the questions relating to whether or not there would be any advantage to South Australia in the dual construction of 2 storages at Chowilla and Dartmouth are concerned, the advice of the River Murray Commission to the 4 parliaments and to the 4 governments is that little advantage would be obtained in total storage gained and that in fact a very good possibility exists that if the 2 storages were constructed together no additional benefit would be available in the form of additional water supplies to South Australia. 
Even if there were agreement by the upstream States to allow South Australia a portion of the very small increase in total storage that would result, it would be only a very minute addition to the existing arrangements and also would be at a very substantial cost. It is ?. fact that the Dartmouth storage, as agreed to by the governments of New South Wales, Victoria and the Commonwealth, and now not yet ratified by South Australia, will provide to South Australia approximately an additional quarter of a million acre feet of water per year. We believe that it is in the best interests of South Australia to proceed with this agreement. 
As to the question whether the other Governments would agree to continue the increased supply of water to South Australia if the Chowilla Dam were proceeded with or if the 2 projects proceeded together, I of course cannot answer on behalf of the other governments. But I think it is quite clear that this matter has been thrashed out very thoroughly over a long period. A firm decision was made first of all on the recommendation of the River Murray Commission and by all the parties to the agreement. This decision subsequently was ratified by 3 of those parties. So I would say that it would be unlikely that the other States would agree to any additional supplies going to South Australia if they did not proceed with the Dartmouth proposal. 
A question arises also as to whether or not the present supply of water to South Australia under the existing agreements would be maintained in the future. Well, my advice is that this probably would be so. But it is the same volume of water that has been provided over many, many years, in fact dating back practically to the year 1915. The only way in which South Australia could gain the benefit of the additional supply would be by proceeding with the Dartmouth proposal at the present time. I would fully recommend that this action to ratify the agreement be taken by the new South Australian Parliament when it is formed. 
I know that the honourable member for Cowper and the honourable member for Paterson have raised this matter on a number of occasions and have a special interest in it. The position is that an application was made by the New South Wales Government to the Commonwealth before the end of last year for consideration of a further grant to assist with the flood mitigation programme which it intended to continue. During the election campaign the Prime Minister did indicate that flood mitigation would be one of the items to be included in the new water development programme. On 23rd December 1969, after the Government had been returned to office, the Prime Minister wrote to the Premier of New South Wales informing him of this decision and asking for advice as to the priority he placed on the proposal. Subsequent to that, officers of my Department and officers of the 2 departments concerned in New South Wales have had quite a number of discussions. 
A letter was sent by the Premier of New South Wales to the Prime Minister about the end of last month indicating that certain data which had been requested was being provided. The data which was provided was in fairly general terms and did not conform to the normal criteria laid down for consideration of these proposals. Subsequent to that my Department has been in constant touch with the  1  departments in New South Wales. They have been asked as a matter of urgency to provide the data which is required. I have undertaken already in this House that as soon as the information is received I will give it first priority. The information will be considered by the interdepartmental committee of the Commonwealth and its recommendation will be processed for consideration by the Government immediately. I would anticipate that, as the officers of the 2 departments are meeting at this very moment, within the next couple of weeks they should have the information required in the correct form and we will be in a position then to place the matter before the Government for urgent consideration. 
In relation to air services to Canberra I can recall that 2 days after taking over my present portfolio and relinquishing the previous one they lost my luggage. I can also recall that this week they let go an aircraft which my friend the honourable member for Dawson and I had expected to catch. But despite that I feel that there is not a great deal of complaint to be lodged in relation to air services to and from Canberra when we examine the actual situation. The point raised by the honourable member in relation to bookings was recently checked by my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation and 1 understand that it is not correct to say that there is a waiting list to that extent. In fact I understand that during this week there is seat capacity available on every flight in and out of Canberra. On some occasions there have been a few isolated problems. The position regarding Canberra is, of course, made difficult by the peaks at the beginning of the week and at the end of the week, particularly when the Parliament is sitting. As a result of this the capacity that is provided here by both of the major airlines is greater than that for any other capital city in Australia, and the utilisation of that capacity is only 50% to and from Canberra compared with 70% on the major trunk routes. 
I cite that merely to indicate that the 2 airlines are doing their best to provide the services that are required to and from Canberra. Certainly an increasing capacity in jet aircraft is now being provided. Additional DC9 services are coming onto the run as other aircraft are being phased out. The Boeing 727, of course, is not an aircraft that is designed for this run although casual services are provided. At the present time there are some restrictions on the DC9 as far as all-up loading is concerned. As this is a joint user airport for the Royal Australian Air Force and the Department of Civil Aviation, arrangements are now under way to consider planning for the extension of the runway and the upgrading of the Airport to the degree where it will be able to provide complete capacity and utilisation for the major jet aircraft operating at the present time. 
I will deal with the latter part of the question first. The situation in Melbourne is quite different from that in Sydney. The Essendon Airport in Melbourne had reached saturation point and it was necessary to find a new area for the major airport to service the city and the State. On those grounds a decision was made some years ago to establish the new airport at Tullamarine and that, as honourable members know, has been done. The situation in Sydney is quite different. It will be quite some years, probably not until the end of the 1980s, before the Sydney airport site of Mascot will reach saturation point. Even so, it will be in a position to continue to handle traffic after that date. An investigation on almost the same time scale has been undertaken, and is continuing, to find an additional site to service Sydney when Mascot reaches saturation point. As I say, it is understood that the operations at Mascot will continue for an indefinite time in the future but the airport will be supplemented by an additional site which has yet to be located. This investigation is proceeding by a special committee and it is expected it will be some time yet before a final recommendation is made. 
In relation to the point on aircraft noise, I have not seen the report referred to but no doubt my colleague in another place has. I draw the attention to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith to the fact that the Government was concerned with the problem of noise, particularly in Sydney but also in other areas in Australia, and as a result a select committee of this House was set up in the last Parliament. It has been re-established in this Parliament and the matters that have been referred to by the honourable member are ones which would come within the competence of that committee to consider and on which to make recommendations in its report at a later date. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I would just like to clear up a point made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  During his comments he made a statement which would indicate that I had given an impression to the House that I had not received all the necessary information from officers of my Department. This is entirely incorrect,  Mr Speaker.  The officers of my Department who attended the meetings concerned did at all times carry out their duties and provided the information that was required both to my predecessor, to the best of my knowledge, and, certainly as far as I was concerned, they provided the information that I required. The statement that the honourable member quoted from Hansard was taken out of context. It was following on a series of statements that I was making in explanation at that time. I point out that my statement was being made without any previous preparation and without reference to other documents at the time. It was a recountaI, to the best of my recollection, of the incidents as they occurred. 
The honourable member for Dawson raised the question about whether or not I was in possession of full detailed information until after the Cabinet meeting. The reference I made is quite correct. I did indicate that it was not until after I had been meeting some of the State Mines Ministers that I became aware of their strong feelings on this matter. I took advantage of the opportunity at that time to study the minutes of both meetings - the meeting in March as well as the meeting in September - in addition to the extracts which I had previously used for briefing material when the matter had been discussed in Cabinet. 
The other reference I made, as far as the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  was concerned, was also entirely correct, because I had not seen or spoken to the honourable member at all until I met him at a Party meeting well after the Cabinet meeting, when I became aware from what he said then, of his very firm feelings in relation to this matter. I repeat again that what was quoted today was perhaps taken mistakenly out of context. But the statements I made were entirely correct at the time. 
1 did have some close association with this matter when I was administering civil aviation. I think the House is aware of the action that the Government took at that time to initiate in the international sense, through the International Civil Aviation Organisation, an annexe to the ICAO convention which established a committee of that body to place this problem on a higher plane and treat it as a matter of urgency. That was done on the Australian initiative. Several meetings of this special committee have been held subsequently and we expect that flowing from that government members of ICAO will act on the recommendations which they receive. On the domestic scene, I know that the Department of Civil Aviation has been very active in this field. In another field a select committee set up by the previous Parliament and reconstituted by this Parliament has already been active in investigating the various problems that have been referred to. Its report, when received, will be considered very carefully by the Government. In addition the Minister for Civil Aviation has set up a series of committees in a number of capital cities, including Sydney, to get the views of local authorities and other interested bodies in this matter and to seek suggestions that might be of assistance in this field. Also, as the honourable member will know, in the last Parliament about $23m was allocated for the extension of the main runway into Botany Bay. That work is proceeding. When the runway is completed it will be possible to make more landings and take-offs over the waters of Botany Bay. These are some of the details within my knowledge of action taken in this field. I will see that the honourable gentleman's question is brought to the attention of my colleague in another place and if further information is available I will see that it is provided to the honourable gentleman. 
It is a fact that approval has been given in principle for the construction of a nuclear power station which will be designed to feed electricity into the New South Wales grid. The actual cost of the power station is not known at this time.  1  would not like to refer to it at this time because only recently we called for tenders for the construction of the power station and the associated generating plant. Tenders close next month. We anticipate that after very careful consideration of the tenders - I have announced already that about 1 1 tenders have been received - the Government will be able to make a decision about the end of this year.  1  hope we will be able to make that decision in about October. It may be a bit later but an announcement will be made about that point of time.  1  expect that in the next session of the Parliament a Bill will be introduced to cover the provision of funds for this project. I am not quite sure at this stage whether one Bill will cover the point raised by the honourable member. At least some legislation will be introduced in the next session to cover the financial aspects of the construction of the station. 
The honourable member inferred - following upon a Press statement that appeared today, I think - that some decision had been made already in relation to a Canadian type of reactor for this station. I would like to say quite clearly that this is not so. Consideration will be given to submissions or tenders from the Canadian authorities, or the relevant corporation in Canada, in the same way that consideration will be given to all other tenders. The Government will consider all tenders in the normal way. There is one provision to which all tenders must conform, that is, the desire of the Government that indigenous fuel be used in some form or other. That is one of the basic requirements written into the tender documents. Consideration will be given to all tenders and when the recommendations are received the Government will come to a decision and will announce it. 
Before concluding I wish to qualify one point in relation to a Press statement on which,  1  am sure, the honourable member based his question. I refer to a statement attributed to Professor Encel. 1 understand that this learned gentleman made a statement which was reported in the Press last week. It also was incorrect. The statement which he has made today is equally untrue in most aspects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not have copies of the regulations from every petroleum producing country in the world. However, it does have information that the installation of storm chokes or similar devices in all off-shore wells, which produce by natural flow rather than by pumping or other methods of artificial lift, is required by Regulation or Directive in Australia, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Also, from experience of other legislative matters it is presumed that a similar requirement would be included in the petroleum legislation of other countries whose regulations are based either on the United Kingdom or the United States petroleum legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I should like firstly to describe a 'storm choke' as an understanding of its function and application is essential in answering this question. A 'storm choke' Ls generally understood to mean a sub-surface tubing safety valve. This safety valve, when installed, prevents a naturally producing well from flowing out of control or blowing wild should the surface controls fail or become damaged. Storm chokes are not used on wells being drilled as other safety equipment operable under drilling conditions is used. Storm chokes are not installed in wells produced by pumping or other methods of artificial lift as in these wells there is generally no formation pressure that could cause the well to flow out of control. Storm chokes generally are not installed in on-shore wells as the danger of damage or malfunction of the surface wellhead control equipment is minimal and frequent inspection is possible. On-shore wells can be relatively quickly shut in, in case of emergency. However, a device similar to a storm choke is usually installed in high pressure on-shore gas wells. This device automatically shuts the well in, should tubing pressures rise above or fall below predetermined levels. This is to prevent damage to the well head and flow lines and to prevent a hazardous gas blow. Storm chokes generally are installed in all off-shore wells produced by natural flow so as to provide protection from damage to the platform, and to (he riser between the sea floor and the platform deck. As many platforms are unmanned storm chokes provide an automatic means of closing a well in the event of failure of other control equipment. In Australia, the installation of storm chokes in off-shore wells, producing by natural flow, is mandatory. Storm chokes generally, are not installed nor required in onshore wells. 
In regard to on-shore wells drilled and completed under the terms of State or Territory petroleum legislation, it appears there is no specific requirement for the installation in each and every flowing well of a storm choke. However, State and Territory petroleum regulations or directives do provide the necessary vehicle for a requirement by the State or Territory authority that a storm choke or similar device be installed if that authority considers it necessary to prevent 'Waste' as defined in the regulations or directives; that is to say, to prevent uncontrolled flow. With regard to off-shore wells, operating and safety regulations which are being drafted under Hie Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1968 will require the installation of storm chokes in all flowing wells. Pending their promulgation directions have been issued by the Designated Authority in each State and Territory requiring the installation of storm chokes in all off-shore flowing wells. 
International Labour Organisation Convention: Sea Going Vessels (Question  No. 582)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that all State Governments in the Commonwealth have agreed to ratify International Labour Organisation Convention No. 109 governing wages, hours of work and manning of sea-going vessels. 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth has not yet agreed to ratify  Chb  Convention; if not, does it propose to do so, and when. 
Will ratification give New Guinean seamen the full entitlements specified in the Convention. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has raised a number of matters relating to civil aviation. I will see that those matters are referred to my colleague in another place and a reply obtained for the honourable member. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Howse adjourned at 11.56 p.m. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As was advised the honourable member in the reply lo a similar question last year, the Australian Water Resources Council is an advisory and consultative body of Commonwealth and State Ministers and public pronouncements are not necessarily made on all matters that have been discussed. 
Following the tenth meeting of the Council in Darwin on 7th September 1969,  a  press statement was issued on behalf of the Council by my predecessor as  Chairman,  and this indicates the important matters discussed. A copy of this press statement is being made available to the honouable member. 
The matters referred to were not discussed at die meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As was advised the. honourable member in reply to a similar question last year, the Australian Forestry Council is an advisory and consultative body of Commonwealth and State Ministers and public pronouncements are not necessarily made on all matters that are discussed. 
Following the eighth meeting of the Council In Hobart on 3 1st October 1969, a press statement was issued on behalf of the Council by my predecessor as  Chairman,  and this indicates the important matters discussed. A copy of this press statement is being made available to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Minerals Council is an advisory and consultative body of Commonwealth and State Ministers. Public pronouncements are not necessarily made oil ail matters that are discussed by the Minerals Council. 
However a press statement was issued after the September, 1969, meeting of the Council which had been called to discuss the question of legislation to govern exploration for and exploitation of off-shore minerals other than petroleum. 
I am arranging for a copy of the press statement to be made available to the honourable member. As announced in the press statement, State Ministers made known their belief that a scheme similar in broad outline to the off-shore petroleum arrangement should be adopted in relation to minerals other than petroleum. The press statement records that the Commonwealth Ministers present agreed that they would refer the State proposals to the Federal Cabinet for consideration. 
Shipping: M.V. 'Slott' (Question No. 979) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The broad recommendations of (he report by Maunsell and Partners have already been made public through statements made by myself and my colleague the Minister for the Interior. The report is a confidential one to the Government and it is not the Government's intention to release the detailed report as a public .document at the present time. The proposals advanced in the report for new port works at Darwin are still under consideration in the context of the detailed planning and design work which is currently in hand. 
Maunsell's report deals specifically with the development of the port of Darwin and may be of only limited value to harbour boards elsewhere. However, I would be prepared to recommend to the Government that in the event of a harbour board submitting a request for a copy of the report, sympathetic consideration be given to making a copy available on a confidential basis. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The New South Wales Department of Main Roads is responsible for the planning of the bridge. 
The Commonwealth has -agreed to accept financial responsibility for that portion of the bridge on airport land and for additional width of the bridge necessitated by merging lanes from within the airport. The Commonwealth proportion of the cost has been assessed as 38% 
I understand that the Department of Main Roads has awarded a contract for the construction, of the bridge and that the work is due for completion by the end of December 1970. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
Over the past 12 months, the two major domestic airlines have undertaken a complete review of the matter of concessional air fares, particularly as they affect students. 
Whilst certain changes were made in the availability of these concessions, the two airlines found it necessary to adhere to their long established policy of not extending them to any students who are in receipt of remuneration. 
Student nurses, of course, are in receipt of remuneration and accordingly are excluded from obtaining concessional fares under this policy, which, 1  am  sure you will appreciate, must bc applied uniformly. 
Having regard for the fact that the airlines have only recently completed a most comprehensive review of the matter, it would not be appropriate for me to ask Trans-Australia Airlines to give special treatment to student nurses. 
In relation to Qantas Airways, the special concessional fares adopted worldwide by the International Air Transport Association for students travelling between their country of residence and prescribed overseas educational establishments do not apply to student nurses and, generally, are only available to full time students not in receipt of remuneration. 
Any amendment to the present conditions would have to be approved by all airlines and Governments concerned and accordingly 1 would foresee many difficulties in securing the necessary unanimous agreement to extending the scheme to cover student nurses who are specifically excluded at the moment. 
Since 1915 there has been a River Murray Commission, lt was established by the Commonwealth and the 3 State governments concerned to control the flow of the waters of the River Murray and the tributaries above and certain waters below Albury. The Commission has been consistently and very strongly supported over the years by all governments concerned. In other words, to my knowledge there has not been a degree of interstate jealousy, as suggested, over the control of these waters. The Commission has managed the situation on a satisfactory basis. The proposal for an authority is something quite different. If an authority were established, as proposed by the honourable member, I assume it would be an authority with autonomy in relation to the expenditure of funds. I am afraid that such expenditure could not be taken out of the control of the various constituent governments in this field. I know what is behind the honourable member's question. He is concerned about some recent events. We hope that what is feared by the honourable member will not eventuate. It is hoped that the policy subscribed to. in the past by the 4 governments concerned will be continued in the future. If it is, and if it is administered through the Commission as in the past, with legislative control of finance in the hands of the various' governments. I am sure that the situation will be resolved in the best interests of all the states concerned. 
I can assure the House categorically that every precaution is naturally taken in relation to the installation of nuclear plants. This is not the first nuclear reactor for the provision of power that has been or will be installed throughout the world. In fact Australia, as a developed country, is one of the last to move into the field of power generation by the use of nuclear reactors. Therefore, there is vast experience in other countries and we,- of course, can benefit from this. But every precaution is taken and . will be taken in relation to the installation and operation of this reactor. 
In addition to this,  Mr Speaker,  we have had for quite some years now a research reactor at Lucas Heights in Sydney and this has given us vast experience in respect of the safety precautions that arc necessary with nuclear reactors. So I can assure the honourable member that the standards which are adopted here not only Will conform to our rigid standards, to which we subscribe through the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, but will be in accordance with the world standards which are laid down by the world agency, the chair-, man of which at the moment is the  chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
The honourable member also 'mentioned studies in relation to the ecology. Studies are at present being carried out and will continue to be carried out in this region for quite some time. A considerable amount of work has been done by the Commission, assisted by outside bodies, in this field and it is my intention,  Mr Speaker,  to seek leave at a later stage to make a statement when the contract is being let in relation to the establishment of the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. When this statement is made - I hope this will be before, the end of this year or at the latest early in 1971 - it will cover, all aspects, not only of the type of power plant that will be .installedthe type of nuclear reactor that will be installed - but the policy governing operation and all other technical matters which would include the results of the studies in relation to the ecology in the district. 
The policy of the Government in regard to the export of raw materials and -its relationship to processing within -Australia has been made quite clear on a number of occasions. There is a policy which has been established by the Commonwealth and State governments, and which is subscribed to, that there should be an increasing degree of processing carried out in Australia for very obvious reasons, some of which were mentioned by the honourable member. But I should draw the attention of the House to the fact that in the field of mineral development most of the work-the exploration and production - is carried out by private enterprise and where there are contractual arrangements with countries overseas these are generally made direct by the private companies with their opposite numbers in other countries and are also on a bilateral arrangement with the State government concerned. 
Where there are export controls the Commonwealth Government does lay down certain conditions which apply to the issue of export licences. There are no export controls on bauxite at the moment but there are in the case. of iron ore, for example, and these conditions have been made known to the States and the companies concerned. In the case of bauxite we know, of course, that it is the policy of the State governments, which have discussed this matter with the Commonwealth through the Australian Minerals Council and in other fields, to proceed as far as possible and to the greatest extent practicable - because there must always be in this field some substantial export of raw material - with the processing of raw material in Australia. My impression is that this policy will continue. 
 in reply - Before referring to the Opposition's amendment I would like to make a few brief comments about the matter raised by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  that is the basis on which these projects are assessed. In this case the project was, as the honourable member indicated but perhaps over-emphasised, considered on a regional as well as a national basis. This is one of the criteria applied to projects submitted by the States under the Commonwealth national water resources pro gramme. The project was considered on economic as well as regional community grounds. We should understand that this project is a supplement to the States' works programmes related to water resources and is not intended to be a programme on its own. The previous Commonwealth programme and this present programme are designed to facilitate and expedite the States' programmes. 
The States submit to the Commonwealth an order of priority for the various projects to be considered in accordance with the standard criteria which we apply and which have been applied in this case. It is interesting to note that only recently in relation to another matter we were criticised fairly strongly for applying the criteria too severely. In this case we have been criticised apparently for not applying the criteria strictly enough. However, I say that the economic aspect as well as the regional community aspect are considered and were considered in this case. The honourable member for Wakefield raised a query about the water charge which is proposed by the Queensland Government. The report submitted by the Queensland Government shows that the charge will be sufficient to cover all operating and maintenance costs, plus a proportion of the capital cost of the head works, which would probably be in the vicinity of 25%. This was illustrated in the submission made to the Commonwealth by Queensland. 
Turning to the Opposition's amendment, it is surprising to find such an amendment moved and supported by  3  Opposition honourable members from Queensland. If the Government accepted the amendment and undertook a further study, as the amendment implies should be done, the measure would be delayed for some considerable time, depending on how long and to what extent we wanted to conduct further feasibility studies. To the relief of the Opposition, I am sure, the Government will not accept the amendment. There is another reason why we cannot accept the amendment. Nobody has yet referred in the debate to the explanatory memorandum which was circulated to all honourable members. The practice of circulating explanatory memorandums has been followed in the past in relation to projects of this kind. It was followed on this occasion and will be followed on future occasions. A summary of the State's submissions was set out in the explanatory memorandum. The summary was not included in the second reading speech because of the length of the document. We thought it better to submit these points for consideration in a separate document, as has been done in the past. The document, a copy of which was circulated to all honourable members, condensed the feasibility studies which were submitted by Queensland and which were very carefully studied by the Commonwealth - by officers of my Department - bearing in mind the criteria which we apply in these cases. The summary set out what was contained in the principal submissions. 
There were  2  main submissions regarding this project. The memorandum contained an introduction which gave a description of the area. There followed a closer reference to the project area. There were references to climate, soils and land use. The memorandum summarised the submissions regarding the benefits to the district from a regional and a national point of view - submissions which were checked carefully by officers of my Department bearing in mind the criteria which we have set as standards. The memorandum contained a description of the works and costs, the facts relating to the project, and finally an illustration in diagramatic form of the project itself. So the information which we received and which measured up to the standard criteria which we apply in these cases was accepted by the Government and has been submitted to the Parliament in the form in which similar information has been submitted in the past. For the reasons I have advanced - that it would delay the measure and that the information has been submitted in the best possible form - we do not accept the Opposition's amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second rime. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  referred to the present proposal before the House as one of the 2 proposals that have been approved, 1 undertaken by the State and 1 undertaken by the Commonwealth. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  stated when this was first announced, and as I covered in my second reading speech, this was the full proposal put up by the Queensland Government, amending the third proposal which had been submitted. The honourable member knows quite well the whole background to the situation. We have met in full the State Government's requirement at the present time in relation to the planned scheme and it is looking after the tidal barrage project which is, of course, going ahead. In addition to this, there is an arrangement whereby a further study will be made of other areas. This will be done by the State and I understand it will ask the Commonwealth for some assistance in this field. The studies which we accepted and the evaluations which we made have been related to this planned proposal because we had all the information from the Queensland Government beforehand. 
The question was raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  as to whether there should be more information provided in this memorandum. As I mentioned before, this has been a standard procedure. It follows lines somewhat similar to those adopted on previous occasions. I will have a look at the situation in relation to memorandums for the future to see whether they can be extended or further information provided to the House. If the honourable member at any time wishes to look at the documents - I have one here, the last statement from the Queensland Government in relation to these projects - he is entitled to do so at any time. There is some information which is a little confidential and that is why it cannot be published. But if the honourable member for Dawson or the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  wish to look at them I would be happy to provide them. What we have done is to follow the normal practice and to put out a memorandum which conveys what we believe to be as much information as would be required. If more is required we will certainly look at that for future submissions. 
The honourable member for Dawson referred to clause 6 and I interjected by saying that this clause has a relationship to the barrage works  which will  be proceeding downstream and that the 2 works programmes will be complementary. The relationship there is between the 2 programmes. But the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  carried us a little further to clause 7 and seemed concerned about the form of wording used in the Bill. I reassure him that this is the standard drafting used for all these measures and is understood by the States and accepted by them. So there is no variation in this Bill from the drafting of the previous Bills. It is the legal drafting terminology that is used. It is understood by the States and they have no objection to it. The honourable member did refer to a comparison between this scheme and one or two others. However there is a difference because this is a straightout grant made under the programme whereas funds provided for some of the other schemes he had in mind were loans. There is quite a variation and therefore the conditions that apply are different. 
The final request is for information regarding the charges. I indicated earlier in the debate the basis upon which the Queensland Government is assessing the charges for this particular project but this is a matter for the Queensland Government in this case, and for all State Governments. They have the responsibility. They normally inform us of the basis so we know about it but we do not have the responsibility in relation to it. We do certainly take that into consideration when the scheme is being examined. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Neither Trans-Australia Airlines nor Ansett Transport Industries Limited have submitted any firm proposal for the purchase of jumbo jets for use on internal routes. 
, (3) and (4) In the light of the answer to question (I), these questions do not arise. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For the year ending 30th June, 1970 Ansett Airlines of Australia will receive subsidy of $41,305 for the Brisbane-Cunnamulla air service. 
Total subsidy estimated to be paid to Ansett Airlines of Australia for the year ending 30 June 1970 will be $231,300 composed of- 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) My Department, working closely with the Department of Air and the National Capital Development Commission, is reviewing the civil airport needs of Canberra, both current and long term. No firm conclusions or recommendations have been referred to me and I understand that it may be some weeks before this is possible. However, on receipt of the Committee's report I will make every endeavour to consider that report as a matter of urgency. 
The new Government in South Australia obviously would not have had time to study the background document"! relating to the Dartmouth proposal. At the present time 1 think any statement which the Premier would make there or which [ would make here would he premature. As President of the River Murray Commission. I would suggest that the new Government in South Australia should very carefully study the whole background of the proposal. I believe that it would not have had the opportunity of studying the papers previous1)' but they would have been studied bv the previous Government. I would say that it is in the interests of South Australia principally that this proposal he proceeded with. I think that when the new Government do?s carefully examine the information which will now he available to it it can only come to that conclusion. 
An; further work either in relation to the detailed planning or to the early stages of design work, of course, cannot be proceded wilh as is clearly understood, unless it has the approval of the 4 governments that arc parties to the agreement. The Commonwealth Government, th' Victorian Government and th? New South Wales Government have already ratified the agreement through their Parliaments. As we well know owing to the political situation in South Australia, the South Australian Parliament did not ratify the agreement al the time. However. 1 nm sure that the new Government, with the interests of South Australia at heart. w:11 carefully study the full details of the matter before it makes a decision lt should he clear to it that this work should proceed in the interests principally of South Australia, and it can proceed only if the 4 governments have decided through their parliaments to ratify the agreement. 
The report referred to by the honourable member has attracted some attention, although 1 have not seen it myself. I understand that my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation in another place, has taken the matter up with the Australian National Airlines Commission. The Commission has indicated, 1 believe, that it did not make such a statement and, therefore, the statement really is without foundation. However, I think it should be pointed out too that Trans-Australia Airlines at the moment does not have a licence to operate intrastate services in Western Australia. The only application that is before the Government or the Department of Civil Aviation for consideration is, I believe, an application by TAA to operate a service between Perth and Darwin. 
The same situation applies now as I indicated in this House last year when J was administering the Civil Aviation portfolio. That is that when the present contract wilh MacRobertson-Miller Airlines Ltd is terminated, consideration will be given to the application by TAA. However, having said that, I can assure the House that the importance of Alice Springs is recognised fully by the 2 airlines not only for the part that it is playing in the development of the Centre but also for the tremendous potential that it has in the tourist field. This has been recognised by the new jet services that have been commenced there and the additional services that are being provided. I certainly will draw to the attention of my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation, the observations made by the honourable member to see whether these services can be improved. 
The Minister for the Interior, the Attorney-General and I attended a meeting of the Australian Minerals Council in Adelaide yesterday. Unfortunately no joint communique was issued at the end of the meeting but the AttorneyGeneral and I issued a joint statement after our return to Canberra late last night. Perhaps because of the lateness and the fact that there was no official communique the reports of the meeting have been very garbled and, in some cases, quite misleading. During the meeting copies of the Adelaide 'News' were circulated to members and the newspaper contained an inaccurate report of a statement made by the Prime Minister to the Federal Council of the Liberal Party on Monday last. The Attorney-General and I corrected the Press report at the meeting. I quoted the actual words used by the Prime Minister. I will refer to them now. The Prime Minister, referring to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, said this: 
It is hard for me to see why there should be objections to constitutional methods of clarifying the constitutional issue. It is certain that after clarification. Commonwealth and State cooperation in the granting of leases for minerals, and Commonwealth-State agreement for royalties and fees can be patterned1 on that Petroleum Agreement which is so often suggested to be followed. 
Apparently the persons reporting this statement did not know the difference between- 
 I think this question more properly should have been directed to the Prime Minister. The point was that yesterday we provided the  Minerals Council with the material that we had indicated previously we would supply for its consideration. The material included 2 draft Bills relating to a mining code and to royalties; information in relation to proposed heads of an agreement which we hope we will eventually reach with the States on these matters; and a list of alternative possibilities in the event of any litigation against the Commonwealth as a result of action taken on' the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill not being in favour of the Commonwealth. Most of this material was made available a week prior to the meeting so that the State Ministers could have an opportunity to study it. It was our hope that these matters would be discussed on a co-operative basis. This did not eventuate yesterday because practically all of the discussion was around the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. As was stated last night in our statement, the Attorney-General and I hope that after the States have had an opportunity to examine the matters again we will be able to get together in the co-operative spirit that we intend and finalise them in the interests of the nation as a whole. 
The simple answer is that the  Chairman  of the meeting, who is the new Premier of South Australia, suggested to the meeting that a communique would not be necessary and that was agreed to by the meeting. 
There has been no alarming drift of geologists from the Bureau of Mineral Resources although it has been drawn to my attention that there is some dissatisfaction with salary rates. But I cannot comment any further at this point of time on that subject because cases relating to these people are at present being considered by the Public Service Board. 
The simple answer is that the separate statements were made by not only the Commonwealth but also every State. 
The Government is prepared to accept this amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 15 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16 (Consultative Committee) 
 I am glad that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  referred to the question of efficiency because efficiency has been the very foundation of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and I am sure it will be the foundation of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. All honourable members on the Government side and I am sure all honourable members of the Opposition appreciate the tremendous service that has been provided by the Authority and the skills that it has acquired, to the benefit of the nation as a whole. We believe that the skills, knowledge and high standard of efficiency will be carried by the Corporation into its new sphere of activity. The Government, of course, cannot accept the proposed amendment moved by the Opposition and insists that the clause remain in the Bill. 
As has been mentioned, clause 16 sets up a consultative committee. I do not think that the Committee would happily accept the criticism of some membership of the committee by the honourable member for Blaxland who referred in a disparaging way to the Commonwealth Public Service. I have more faith in the Commonwealth Public Service, as I am sure my friend the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has, and we all believe that the dedication of the senior officers of the Public Service who would be appointed to this committee would make sure that the committee operated in accordance with the intentions of the Government and would be of assistance to the Corporation. As has been outlined, it is intended that the committee membership will comprise 2 major government users of the consultants. This is quite significant because the consultative committee will include representatives of the Commonwealth Department of Works and the Department of National Development. In addition 2 persons nominated by the Australian Institution of Engineers will be representative of the wide body of private consultants throughout Australia. For overseas work it is intended that there will be added to the committee representatives of the Department of External Affairs and the Department of Trade and Industry. If we look broadly at this, I am sure that honourable members will see that it will be a balanced committee capable of providing the best possible advice which will be in the best interests of the Corporation and of the country, in association with work that will be undertaken by the Corporation in future. 
In contradiction to the honourable member for Blaxland, I would have complete faith in the personnel that eventually will be appointed to the consultative committee. I know that the Corporation will welcome working with this committee and being able to accept its advice particularly on many matters which would concern overseas operations. For the various reasons that were mentioned in my second reading speech, the Government wishes to see this clause retained in the Bill. 
The Government does not accept this amendment. At a later stage I will move an amendment to this clause. However, I shall refer to that later. The purpose of clause 17 is to set out the functions and powers of the Corporation. The reason for the establishment of the Corporation has been explained in my second reading speech and in statements to the House by my predecessor. The Corporation is a means - and a very satisfactory means - of retaining for use in Australia an organisation which has played a very important part in our development. After the conclusion of major construction work on what has been the largest engineering programme in Australia we will be retaining for use in a variety of ways a very substantial number of very skilled personnel who will carry into a new field the skills which they have shown under the previous authority. Clause 17 sets out the functions which, briefly, are to carry out investigations and furnish advice on materials used in engineering works, the siting and design of engineering works and the supervision of contracts for such works. 
The amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  relates to overseas work or work outside Australia. The clause as it stands allows the Corporation to engage in construction activities or to supervise construction. We feel that this gives to the Corporation an opportunity to pursue in a very substantial way the excellent work which it has shown it was capable of undertaking in Australia in the past. On these grounds we feel that the clause should remain as it is and we therefore will not accept the amendment. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment proposed by the Opposition. Our attitude is based principally on the objection which we raised to the earlier amendment to this clause. I must repeat that very careful consideration was given to the future of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and because of its special work and special skills and the part it has played in the national economy the Government felt there was a part for the Authority to continue to play in the field once the major construction work had been completed in the Snowy area. It was around this philosophy that there emerged this proposal for the establishment of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. Again, careful consideration was given to the terms of reference and the Bill is based on the belief that the Corporation can fit very effectively into the present structure and can carry out a very useful task in the community with the same high standard of efficiency that has been exercised in the past. 
The sub-clauses referred to by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  relate to the question of ministerial approval that the Corporation must seek when work is to be undertaken. From what the honourable member for Lang said it would appear that this was something entirely new. But the situation is, of course, that most of the major work at present undertaken by the Authority has to be submitted for ministerial approval. This is a normal practice as far as these types of instrumentalities are concerned. Therefore, there is no basic change in principle as far as sub-clause (3.) is concerned. Sub-clause (4.) confines the ministerial approval for work within Australia to certain categories. These are broadly associated with water, electricity, underground works and works incidental to these fields. Of course, these categories cover a broad scope. They cover the field in which the Authority has been working and in which the skills of the Authority can be applied to the best possible extent. Therefore, we do not agree that the amendment to sub-clause (4.) should be accepted. 
Sub-clause (5.) refers to work in respect of private organisations in Australia. This sub-clause sets out that the Minister shall not give his approval until the Corporation acts on commissions received from private consultants. This, of course, is an arrangement that was decided on as one of the best means of fitting the organisation into the community activity in which it will have to function. This is necessary because the Corporation will be moving in quite a different field from the previous major construction work in the Snowy area. 1 would like to say something about the categories of work which can be undertaken by the Corporation overseas. Some guide lines are laid down which will be observed by the Minister for National Development when considering approval for submissions made in this field. For the reasons I outlined in my second reading speech and in view of the points which I mentioned previously in this Committee debate, we cannot agree to the amendments which are proposed by the Opposition. The Government asks that clause 17, with the exception of 1 amendment which I will refer to shortly, should stand. 
I appreciate the comments of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and his references to a number of other instrumentalities, and there is a certain amount of logic in what he has said. He has certainly given some thought to the points he has raised. However, the Government cannot accept the amendment which he proposes. It is quite clearly set out in the clause that the provision gives the Corporation power to engage staff on any basis it determines. As has been stated the amendment proposes to delete provision for the general oversight and approval of the Public Service Board. In this case this is continuing a practice that has been in existence as far as the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority is concerned, lt has worked well for a period of 20 years for the Authority and we hope that it will continue to operate in exactly the same way for the future, lt has not been unduly restrictive where the Authority has been operating in fields of a nature similar to those in which the Corporalion will be operating in the future. 
At the same time it means that the salaries, agreed to by the Commonwealth Public Service Board and recommended by the Corporation will not be out of line with those of the public service, both Commonwealth and State. So on a number of grounds we do not accept the amendment. This matter was given very careful consideration before a final decision was made and the Government wishes to see this clause remain as it is. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 22 agreed to. 
Clause 23 (Limitation on staff). 
 The Government cannot accept this amendment. I clearly pointed out in my second reading speech, and 1 have subsequently referred to the matter, that clause 23 gives the Minister the authority to determine the number of persons that will be employed by the Corporation at any one time. There have been a number of interpretations placed on this; some of them have been slightly misrepresented. But this is not an authority that is not found in many other circumstances where a board, a Minister or the head of a department has to determine the number of staff within the organisation or the department. It is not simply a matter of the Minister making an individual judgment in relation to it. He, of course, will have the advice of the Corporation and also of the consultative committee. When the determination is made as lo the strength of the Corporation in the first case, it is not final that that will remain as the strength indefinitely. The clause slates: 
The Minister may, by instrument in writing, determine that the number of persons employed by the Corporation at any time shall not exceed the number specified in the instrument. 
In other words, if within 12 months or 2 years it is found necessary to change the number of staff employed, the Minister can on the advice of his advisers - particularly on the advice of the Corporation - consider the matter and implement what would be a normal practice. We feel that the situation is well covered and that in this particular system the Corporation will function well and will effectively carry out its duties in accordance with the requirements and, as I said before, in the same efficient way as it has in the past. So for the various reasons which I have previously mentioned and referred to again now, the Government cannot accept this amendment. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
I move: 
That the report of the Standing Orders Committee brought up on 4lh June 1970 be adopted and that the Standing Orders of the House be amended as recommended by that Committee to come into operation at the next sitting.  lt will be recalled that on 8th April the House referred a resolution to the Standing Orders Committee asking it to recommend a suitable amendment to standing order 28, which relates to the Printing Committee's powers when conferring with a similar Committee of the Senate to give effect to a recommendation of the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications. The report under consideration records the decision of the Committee made at its meeting of 11th May when the proposed new standing order 28 was recommended. A similar proposal is in the process of being given effect to by the Senate. The motion I have moved is purely formal and will enable the new standing order to come into operation tomorrow. 
The Minister has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The minimum guaranteed pay (M.G.P.) for domestic airline pilots in Australia is compiled on the basis of 65 hours flight time composed of three-quarter day and one-quarter night flying. 
The M.G.P. scale of salaries applicable to DC9 and Boeing 727 aircraft is as follows: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (l), (2) and (4) The following table shows the services jointly provided and fares charged by both Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia: 
I feel that I can give an assurance to the House regarding safety operations in any field of civil aviation. The broad matter raised by the honourable member is not within my knowledge but I will see that the question is referred to my colleague in another place and a suitable reply obtained. 
The honourable member for Gwydir and the honourable member, for Maranoa have raised this matter on a number of occasions not only in the House but also in discussion. They also introduced a deputation to me a couple of months ago. At that time I indicated to the deputation that I expected that in about two months time we would have completed our studies and I would be in a position to make a submission to the Government for consideration. We undertook very substantial survey work on the site.' That has been completed. My understanding, without checking on the position; is that the evaluation of the survey work is now being completed. I would expect in a very short time to receive a submission from the Department in relation to this matter. After consideration I- will prepare 'the matter as quickly as possible for submission to the Government. I can assure the House that everything possible is being done to expedite this work which I know is important to the. two governments concerned. 
I would have extreme difficulty in tabling the tender documents because, as I think the honourable member has read in the Press during the last couple of days, we expect the total weight of paper in the documents that will be received next Monday to be about 7 tons. I would hesitate to ask the staff of the House to handle documents of that magnitude. However, the preparation of the tenders in the first place was a matter which was long, involved and fairly costly, as will be the tender documents which will be received in both respects. They will also be long, involved, complex and costly. Safety is of course completely covered. I have stated in this House on previous occasions that the standards which are laid down by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission on behalf of the Government are as high as those in any other country, and indeed certain standards are higher. But in addition to that we subscribe to the safeguard standards laid down by the international agency. We in Australia should be proud that at the moment the  chairman  of the world agency is an Australian - the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. So we have a very close affiliation with the formulation of these world standards for safety. I can assure the House and the honourable member that these will be adhered to very rigidly. As 1 indicated previously, I have undertaken that after consideration of the tenders has been finalised and the Government has considered a contract, a full statement will be made to the House on all aspects of the contract and other matters relating to safety and ecology. 
This matter certainly was raised in the House a couple of weeks ago. It refers to a paper on the ecological factors related to the siting, design and operation of a nuclear power station in Australia. At that time I pointed out to the 
House that some officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission - Messrs Davy, Giles and Charash - bad been asked to prepare and deliver this paper at the symposium. Due to a number of factors associated mainly with the preparation of the paper it was not available for delivery at the symposium, but it was indicated that when the paper was completed it would be submitted to the directors of the symposium so that it could be incorporated in the proceedings. Thai paper, which is a private one. has now been finalised and has been sent to the directors of the symposium. They have, very kindly, sent a few copies to me. If the honourable member is interested I certainly can supply him with a copy. As it is a private document it cannot, of course, bc tabled in the House, but I can make copies available. I think that the honourable member for Lang was interested in this matter, and I will forward a copy to him. If the Leader of the Opposition is interested 1 will certainly see that a copy is sent to him. There are a few spare copies that I will make available to any member of the Press Gallery who is interested in seeing what is a personal and private paper concerning a very important subject. 
There has been progressively over the last few years an increase in jet services not only on the major trunk routes but to major country centres. It is expected, of course, that this increase in jet services will continue to expand in the future. There are certain standard types of jets operating on the major trunk routes in "Australia at the moment, for example, the Boeing 727 which is a main trunk route aircraft and the Douglas DC9 which can operate from certain strips such as Canberra and some other strips in country areas. 
There has been introduced into Western Australia an intermediate type jet - the Fokker, F28 - which can operate from smaller strips than those required for the DC9. At the moment, 1 know, the airlines are considering replacements for certain of their intermediate type of aircraft and I. would not doubt that at some point of time in the future there will be additional intermediate sized jet aircraft operating. This brings up the whole question of the services to country areas. I know my colleague in another place, the Minister for Civil Aviation, is carefully studying this matter, lt raises many questions in relation to the upgrading of airports because many airports in Australia are under the local ownership scheme whereby there is a sharing of the capital cost and maintenance in relation to the upgrading of airports. But I will certainly bring the question to the notice of my colleague in another place and see whether any further information can bc provided. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
(a) Flight Survey Fokker F.27 aircraft. 
The Commonwealth Government. 
Calculated on an 'extra cost' basis, the cost of the flight from Ballarat to Canberra was approximately $250. The calculation used was, for all practical purposes, the same as that agreed by the Treasury and the Department of Air for R.A.AJ7. V.I.P. flight costs and advice of this procedure was given to the House of Representatives by the then Prime Minister on 24 October 1967. 
As indicated in the answer to question (2) (a) above, this aircraft is a flight survey aircraft, especially equipped to carry out the testing and calibration of air navigation and communication aids vital to the air safety of this country. The carriage of passengers in it at any time is incidental to the function for which it is equipped and for which it is flown. In point of fact, this aircraft had only four passenger seats in it. 
As with all flights carried out by this type of D.C.A. aircraft, other sectors of this flight were used to evaluate and monitor the performance of navigational aids, ground to air and air to ground radio transmission in the areas covered by the flight as well as other operational procedures of airline and other aircraft. 

 Mr G. D. Erwin, M.H.R. 
Two pilots and a flight engineer. 
To transport the Honourable Member for Ballaarat to Canberra. 
Right Honourable the Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) Beforea decision was taken, the Government considered an analysis of the likely costs and benefits arising from the construction of a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. however, it will be necessary to revise this analysis when tenders for the Nuclear Steam Supply System have been received and assessed by the Atomic Energy Commission and its consultants. The initial analysis was prepared by the Commission on the basis of a continuing study of the developing costs of nuclear power throughout the world and the translation of this data to Australian conditions. 
The costs of electric power, conventional or nuclear depend upon many factors such as the type of station, its location, its capital cost, whether it will meet base load or peak demands, whether it is a single or multi unit station; upon its fuel costs, interest rates, penalties to be met for the avoidance of pollution and other factors. The impact of these factors is different for conventional and for nuclear stations and therefore a simple comparison of the Jervis Bay Station with a conventional station is not possible. 
The Commission's general conclusion was that a first nuclear station, which would have great value in establishing this new technology in Australia and the opportunities for training and experience which this would provide, would deliver power at an acceptable cost. Initially on a straight generation costs basis, the Jervis Bay Station is not expected to be competitive with a contemporary, coal-fired station of similar size, both operating on base load and with present day fuel and other costs. The difference is expected to be small but will not be known until tenders have been assessed. However any cost disadvantage could be more than offset by other benefits, depending on the relative movement of certain costs, a nuclear stationshould show an economic advantage over a conventional station. 
500 MV. 
Yes. Nuclear power stations using natural or enriched uranium produce isotopes of plutonium during their operation. The quantity and isotopic composition produced will be dependant upon the reactor type selected and the fuel management programme adopted. The plutonium produced will ultimately be recovered for use in a fast breeder reactor programme which is likely to produce the lowest costs of power. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A simple answer in quantitative terms is not practicable but in broad terms it can be stated that the estimated cost of electricity, from the Jervis Bay Station is expected to be somewhat higher than the large very favourably placed coal fired units at present being erected in New South Wales: it will, however, likely be lower than those of many stations which have been operating in the other States for some time. 
Given that no major changes occur in the trends of costs of both conventional and nuclear stations the short answer is that nuclear stations will be economical when the electricity systems in the respective States are large enough to absorb larger units; this is likely to be the case in some States in the mid-1980's but will vary from State to State. 
I  should perhaps explain that electricity costs decrease with increasing plant size but the decreases are far more rapid with nuclear stations. It is not, however, feasible to integrate in the State systems at present, nuclear plants whose size would otherwise make them economic, as, for technical reasons, it is inadvisable for any unit to be larger than about 10% of the size of the total system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While the Commonwealth is providing the initiative in this work, all States will be invited to participate and accordingly the benefits will be Australia-wide The main reasons for the work are: 
To gain experience in contracting for, constructing commissioning and operating nuclear stations. 
To assist in establishing a nuclear industrial potential which will be at the exacting standards required in the nuclear industry. 
To enable Australia to take earlier advantage of the prospective major cost savings from fast breeder reactors when they become available. 
The Commonwealth's initiative at this stage, will also enable early consideration to be given to problems involving international, interstate and Commonwealth/State relationships which will require legislative action. These problems need to be resolved in advance of the time when States become actively engaged in nuclear developments of their own. 
The station is to be owned and controlled by the Commonwealth (although operated in conjunction with the Electricity Commission of New South Wales). For this and for Constitutional reasons it was preferable that it should be sited in Commonwealth Territory. Fortunately it was found that the Jervis Bay site was very suitable in that it met requirements for availability of cooling water, proximity to present and future load centres and favourable construction cost factors in relation to topography, geology, transport and access. 
As South Australia prospectively has relatively high fuel costs, it will no doubt be attracted to nuclear power in due course. However, the States electrical system is at present too small to accept the size of a unit at which nuclear costs are competitive; thus it has no present need for a reactor. No doubt when the need arises a suitable site will be found. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. I would add, however, that State Authorities have the primary responsibility for such studies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has always been active in seeking to promote a better public understanding of atomic energy. Recently the emphasis has mainly been on nuclear power, and a large exhibition explaining power reactor systems, engineering and economic aspects of nuclear power, and fuel development, is being shown at the Sydney Town Hall. It was shown in Canberra last September. 
The Commission endeavours to meet all requests for speakers; in the past year over 30 addresses dealing with nuclear power have been given to community organisations, clubs and professional groups, and others are scheduled. 
Detailed records are not kept of all information given out, but the following, while not exhaustive, will indicate the extent of the Commission's efforts. 
The Commission has held four exhibitions dealing with nuclear power in NSW, Canberra and Victoria, and it has equipped a mobile caravan dealing with Jervis Bay, which will shortly be making a tour of the Nowra area. In September it will visit Adelaide and several towns in NSW, and will later be shown in other metropolitan and country centres. A public Information Centre has been built at the Lucas Heights Research Establishment and will be open in July, and next year an Information Centre will be built at Jervis Bay. 
The Commission has published two booklets for general distribution, and the last three issues of its quarterly journal have contained progress reports on Jervis Bay. 
Three articles by Commissioners or Commission staff have been published in leading newspapers and periodicals, and four others have been promised in the next few months. Fourteen Press statements have been issued. 
On 3 occasions the  Chairman  and officers of the Commission gave extensive breifings of Jervis Bay to groups of visitors to the Commission's Research Establishment, including Press. 
Two Press visits have been arranged to the Jervis Bay site and many Press, radio and T.V. interviews given. From time to time individual correspondents have called at the Commission's Head Office on nuclear power, and telephone enquiries are answered every day. 
In March 1971, the Commission is organising a major symposium dealing with the type of reactor selected for Australia. It will be attended by experts from Commission staff, universities, and from other leading countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a letter to me in December 1969,  Mr Everingham  asked 'Do well proven and established areas where periodical devastation results from drought carry top priority in your planning?' 
My reply contained the following comment: Almost all areas of Australia are affected by drought at various times and it seems impracticable to set them in any particular order of priority'. I might add that priority for water conservation works is not necessarily determined by their potential to mitigate the effect of drought - the overall effect on production is generally a more important factor. 
This is a reasonable summary of a part of the paper on the Fitzroy Region, Queensland Resources Series, on Climate. 
It is doubtful that the Fitzroy Region could be considered typical for Queensland with regard to rainfall variability. I am not aware of any study which has provided a comparison between States with regard to variability of rainfall. 
As the honourable member is no doubt aware, water conservation under our Federal Constitution is the responsibility of the State Governments and as a consequence the Commonwealth Government is not in a position to set priorities for these works. In the National Water Resources Development Programme, however, the Government does have regard to its own assessment in selecting works for which financial assistance will be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The seven coal mines in the Burragorang Valley are owned by Clutha Development Pty Ltd and companies associated with it. It is understood that Clutha Development Pty Ltd is owned by National Bulk Carriers of New York. 
Coal production per man shift worked amounted to 13.81 tons for the year 1968-69. 
The greater part of the output of the Burragorang Valley mines is sold to Japanese buyers and shipped through Balmain. The current FOB Balmain price is SI 0.24 per ton. Details of the labour costs per ton are not available. 
Air Pollution: Emissions from Motor Vehicles (Question No. 1131) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility foi the disposal of industrial waste, other than in Commonwealth Territories, is primarily a matter for  the  appropriate State authorities. National plans have not been formulated. 
There has been some general discussion on water quality and pollution, but the specific question of disposal of industrial wastes has not been examined. 
See answer to (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the large number of projects submitted by the States for consideration under the programme, and die need to undertake a careful assessment of each of these projects it will be some time before examination of the Polda Kimba pipeline project submitted by the South Australian Government can be completed. 
1 cannot at present say when a decision will bc announced, but I can assure the honourable member that work on this programme is proceeding as fast as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tenders for the Jervis Bay nuclear power station closed on15 June, 1970. They included tenders for the CANDU and SGHWR types but it will not be possible to give accurate up-to-date relative costs for these two types until the tenders have been fully' evaluated. 
No. It isnot possible to give an estimate of the number of these types of nuclear stations which can be constructed in Australia. When generating authorities decide to install nuclear power plants in their own systems they will almost certainly call tenders on a world wide basis as the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has done in the case of the Jervis Bay project. Decisions regarding the type and number of nuclear stations to be selected will be based on technical and economic grounds. 
 The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A document has been prepared which discusses in depth developments in natural resources, particularly minerals, forests, water and energy. 
The matter is under consideration. 
The answer lo the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The quantity, value aud country ot origin of crude oil and other refinery feedstock imported into Australia in each of the last 3 years, as reported by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics is given in the attached tabic. 
The names of importers are noi published. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The reports to which the honourable member has referred are confidential studies by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Electricity Commission of New South Wales prepared for management. As I have said, I will make a statement to the House after the Government has considered a contract, and this will deal with the matters in which the honourable member is interested. Meanwhile I can assure him that tha standards which have been set in these matters are at least the equal - and in many cases are mora exacting- that those which are observed overseas. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The area at Murray's Beach, Jervis Bay, proposed for the site of the nuclear power station is a part of one of the undeveloped areas in the Jervis Bay region. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Department of the Interior are maintaining close liaison to ensure that any disturbance of the area occasioned by the construction of the power station will be as small as possible., thus minimising any effect on the aesthetics and general character of the area. 
Yes. Bristol Point and Scottish Inlet were considered in addition to Murray's Beach, but were found to be unsuitable on several grounds. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The final decision on the point of discharge of wanned water from the turbine condensers will not be made until all investigations of the area are completed. 
No. The Government is aware of the nature of thermal pollution, and detailed examination of environmental and ecological factors is being made so that any disturbance of the environment at Jervis Bay will not be significant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Committee stated in the body of its report that it considered that the use of liquid propane gas as fuel for internal combustion engines should be examined in detail by the appropriate authorities. No reference however was made to this in the Committee's formal recommendations. 
No. 
Liquid propane gas has been used as fuel for internal combustion engines in some countries for many years, and numerous papers relating to such use have been published in scientific journals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Fast breederreactors are not yet a commercial proposition but a large effort is being directed towards their development in most of the countries with advanced nuclear programmes. 
The first large commercial fast breeder stations are expected to be introduced into Great Britain and certain European countries (for example France and Germany) by about 1980. It may be some years later before they are introduced into the U.S.A. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is not aware of any plans of private industry to construct and operate nuclear power stations in remote areas in Australia. 
Nuclear generating plant is owned by private enterprise in other countries and there would appear to be no reason in principle why this should not be permitted in Australia. Such a plant however would be subject to whatever controls the Commonwealth or State Governments may consider it necessary to impose, e.g. in respect of safety, insurance against nuclear damage and, in the Commonwealth's case, of satisfying our international obligations, especially as to 'Safeguards' on the use of fissionable material. However, this question has not yet arisen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Past breeder reactors operate most efficiently and economically when fuelled with plutonium which is the preferred fuelling material. They will however operate with the fissile materialuranium 235 but there is a significant cost penalty involved. The widespread adoption of fast breeder reactors is not expected to commence until about 1990. It is not possible at this time to say for certain that adequate supplies of plutonium would then be available but those countries which have built thermal nuclear power reactors will have had the opportunity to accumulate plutonium for these purposes. 
Japan, like a number of other countries such as the United Kingdom and France, has a large thermal nuclear power reactor programme and is actively engaged in fast breeder reactor development. Plutonium produced in the thermal reactors will almost certainly be used to supply fuel for future fast breeder stations. Japan is also producing an Advanced Thermal Reactor similar in some respects to the British SGHWR but designed to operate on plutonium. 
Yes. The earlier Australia embarks on a thermal power reactor programme the greater will be the amount of plutonium available for use in fast breeders when they become commercially available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. However when ail potential tenderers for nuclear power stations were invited in December 1969 to register as tenderers it was ascertained that none of them were interested in submitting a tender based on a gas cooled reactor; therefore there has been no occasion to consider the suitability of these reactors for Australian needs. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second time. 
This Bill concerns financial grants to the States over the next 3 financial years to accelerate the measurement of the flow of rivers and the investigation and measurement of underground water resources. Honourable members will know that, as a result of a recommendation by the Australian Water Resources Council, the Commonwealth and State Governments in 1964 adopted an accelerated programme of surface and underground water investigations. The aim of the programme is to achieve a comprehensive basic network of stream gauging stations and to improve knowledge of underground water resources. Besides implementing its own accelerated programme in the Northern Territory, the Commonwealth has assisted State programmes by making available grants totalling up to $2.75m over the 3-year period 1964-65 to 1966-67 and up to $4.5m over the 3-year period 1967-68 to 1969-70. 
With regard to surface water, during the 3-year period of the States Grants (Water Resources) Act 1964, programmes submitted by the States for stream gauging activities provided for the improvement of 163 existing stations and the construction of 368 new stations, and annual expenditure increased from less than$1m in 1962-63 to$1.8m in 1966-67. Of the latter figure, the Commonwealth provided over one- third. Total expenditure by Commonwealth and States in the 3-year period was approximately $4.9m. During the next 3-year period, 1967-68 to 1969-70, over 470 existing stations were upgraded and about 500 new stations were constructed. Total expenditure during this period increased to approximately $7.4m of which the Commonwealth contributed $2.5m. There are now about 2,100 stations operating and useful records are available from a further 460 which have been discontinued since 1960 for a variety of reasons. With regard to investigation of underground water, annual expenditure increased from approximately$1m to about $2.2m during the first 3-year period. Of the latter figure, the Commonwealth provided $350,000. Total expenditure in the 3-year period was approximately $5. 8m. Corresponding expenditures for the 3-year period 1967-68 to 1969-70 were approximately $7.9m of which the Commonwealth provided $2m. 
Rapid progress has been made with the work of underground water assessment, and the value of this was strikingly demonstrated in several regions during recent severe droughts. The success of the overall programme is exemplified by the fact that the States have in the last few years undertaken programmes considerably in excess of requirements to attract the full Commonwealth subsidy. This has been particularly so in the case of underground water. The governments involved have reason to be well satisfied with the progress made so far. However, it was apparent to the Water Resources Council that, if the objectives of the programme as envisaged were to be achieved, a further expansion of effort was needed, and this is reflected in the programmes planned by the States for this and the next 2 years. The surface water programmes total $8. 5m, which is an increase of$1.1m on the programmes for the period just completed. Apart from a general increase in the cost of materials and labour which has occurred since the original estimates were made, the State authorities are experiencing a rise in the unit cost of establishing and operating each stream gauging station as these activities extend into the more remote areas and involve the more difficult streams. 
The underground water programmes total $ 10.3m, which is an increase of $2. 4m on the programmes covered by the 1967 Act. The Government now proposes to make available a total of over S8.2m by way of grants to the States to assist in achieving the planned programmes in the next 3 years. This figure represents an increase of 80% over the level of Commonwealth aid in the past 3 years and a three-fold increase in assistance from the first 3-year programme. In making this increased contribution, the Commonwealth contemplates that the States will increase their own contributions, in order that the objectives endorsed by the Water Resources Council may bc achieved. The current legislation does not, of course, cover the Northern Territory. Arrangements will be considered by my colleague, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  for an appropriate programme of water resources measurement to be continued in the Northern Territory. The distribution of Commonwealth funds over the 3 years is set out in the Schedules to the Bill, but for the convenience of members, I give the figures briefly now. For surface wa er, the totals are in 1970-71,$1.17m; in 1971-72, $1.2m; and in 1972-73,$1.26m. For underground water, the totals are:$1. 45m, $l.54m and $1.6m respectively. 
I turn now to the Bill itself, the provisions of which arc similar to the 1964 Act which it is designed to follow. Provision for grants in respect of expenditure by the States on stream gauging is contained in clause 4. Commonwealth grants will be provided in accordance with the details specified in the First Schedule to assist the States to attain the programme of expenditure necessary for the achievement of the aims of the accelerated programme. In respect of each State, the Commonwealth grant will be the amount by which the expenditure exceeds the base year figure, until the base expenditure is doubled, after which the grant is on a $1 for $1 basis up to the ceiling set out in the Schedule. 
When the 1967 Act was drafted, the administration of the surface water programme was simplified, compared with the first 3 years, by combining the grants for capital and operational expenditures. In this Bill a further simplification is being made in that the formula for calculation of grants for underground water investigations has been made the same as for surface water as outlined above. The Commonwealth grants have been allocated between the States on the basis of the State's own proposed programmes for both surface and underground water. The Bill also contains a number of machinery provisions which remain the same as in the previous Bills relating to this programme. These include provision for approval of the proposed programmes by the Minister, provision for the making of advance payments to the States, and provision for submission of progress reports. 
With regard to this programme generally, I should mention that, whereas it was originally envisaged as covering a 10-year period, the Government has agreed in principle that it should be extended for a further 3-year period beyond the one covered by this Bill, making a total of 12 years. I would envisage that the whole concept of the programme would be reviewed before the end of that period.I should also point out that, in accordance with the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in October last year, this programme has been brought within the compass of the national water resources development programme. Thus, the grants provided for in this Bill are part of the total allocation to be made to the States in the national water programme. The provision of works to  conserve  and use our water resources must be preceded by thorough investigations of the resources involved, so that adequate basic data for rational development are available. The programme of water resources assessment which all governments are undertaking has been devised with this end in view.I have much pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Aircraft using the north/south runway pass over heavily populated areas in the Grayndler Electoral Division and complaints have been received about aircraft noise from individuals and a number of community organisations. Without attempting to minimise the problem, I doubt that the description 'distress and suffering' applies as generally tothe community as fa implied in the question. Be that as it may, there is a problem of noise nuisance to the north of the airport which has been recognised for some time and every effort is made to alleviate it to the extent possible. (2)I would not be prepared to issue instructions that runway 16 (for landings) and runway 34 (for take-offs) be used only In an emergency. If 'emergency' is defined as 'essential forthe safety of crews and passengers' then in the fullest sense this could involve the diversion of arriving aircraft to other airports or the withholding of departures in some conditions of wind and weather at Sydney which would normally demand the use of the north/south runway. If the term emergency' is extended to mean 'essential for the safety of crews and passengers when operating to and from Sydney Airport' then already in the control of air traffic and the application of preferred runways for noise abatement, runway 34 is rarely, if ever, used for take-offs in other than the circumstances of such emergencies. This of course does not apply to landings on runway 16 which are the main cause of annoyance to people to the north of the airport 
Therefore describing the operational procedures governing the use of landing runways, it is appropriate to first mention that there are limitations in the tola] use of the airport. That is, the 'curfew' period for scheduled jet operations between 11.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. and the limitation on training movements. 
From 10.00 p.m. to 6.45 a.m. runway 16 is equal last priority for landings. The other runway for last priority is runway 07 (approaches from the west). Only safety conditions ever require landings on runway 16 in these hours. 
A similar concept of operation also applies in the evening hours between 7.00 p.m. and 10.00 p.m. but the use of runway 16 for landings is not precluded in the event of the build-up of excessive traffic delays and controller work load. Nevertheless, in practice, and even accepting that wind and weather conditions sometimes demand its use, runway 16 has a low percentage use for landings in these hours. The noise abatement procedures make good use of landing over Botany Bay or from the east as second alternative in these hours. 
From 6.4S a.m. to 7.00 p.m. are the busiest hours of traffic. Since the use of landings over Botany Bay is in direct conflict to preferred departures taking off over Botany Bay and also since wind conditions rarely permit landings towards the north in these hours, alternative runways are used for landings. 
The procedures split and distrubute the landing traffic flow to make use of all directions where possible during these hours. That is, landings on runway 16, landings on runway 07 from the west and landings on runway 25 from the east. All these directions involve sensitive areas. Partly because of prevailing winds and partly because of the need for safety in the control of traffic, landing aircraft make more use of runways 16 and 07 than runway 25. The extent of use of runways 16 and 07 for landings is normally very similar but runway works may upset this balance at times. 
It will be appreciated that the safety factor, more than any other, determines the noise abatement procedures to be used. Whilst it may be true that runway 16 could be used to a lesser degree for landings, without compromising safety, by making greater use of runway 07 for landings, an extensive study of noise sensitive areas around the airport has shown that the western section is also very sensitive. The effect of the higher terrain contributes to this, lt is my view that the present procedures, which have been developed after careful consideration, are justified. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In the past it has been possible to supply aircraft movement information requested because it was confined to late night/early morning operations for which reasonably accurate records are maintained. 
Such is not the case for all movements over the prolonged period involved because, as a matter of policy, flight records are retained for only 3 months. In the circumstances, the following information, which has been derived from samples of movements for a 2-month period (November/ December 1969) and over 4 days (14th to 17th March 1970) when works on taxiways and the east/west runway caused an unusually high percentage use of the north/south runway, may satisfy this inquiry: 
Calendar Months November/December 1969 
Landings on runway 16 - 3,787 Daily average - 62 (approx.) 
Take-offs from runway 16 (over Botany Bay- 7,167 
Daily average - 1 17 (approx.) 
Note: Take-offs from runway 34 over northern suburbs)- 159 
Daily average - 2.5 (approx.) 
(a) Total landings at airport - 10,159 
Daily average - 166.5 (approx.) 
Total take-offs at airport- 10,136 
Daily average - 166 (approx.) 
(a) Landings on runway 16 after 11 p.m. - 84 
Daily average - 1.4 (approx.) 
Total landings at airport after 11 p.m.- 407 
Daily average- 6.7 (approx.) 
Take-offs from runway 16 (over Botany Bay) after 11 p.m.- 410 
Daily average - 6.7 (approx.) 
Note: Take-offs from runway 34  (over northern suburbs) after 11 p.m.- 1 
Total take-offs at airport after 11 p.m.- 456 14th to 17th March, 1970 (4 days)  (l)(a) Landings on runway 16 - 518 
Daily average - 129.6 
Take-offs from runway 16 (over Botany 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Approaches and departures are conducted over Botany Bay as often as traffic and weather conditions allow. The big majority of take-offs are already from runway 16 towards the south with initial climb out over the Bay, and this limits the number of landings which can be made in the reciprocal direction. This means, in effect, that approaches over the Bay can only be authorised during low density traffic periods such as the night hours. 
The installation of an instrument landing system (ILS) would not change this situation to any significant degree. Runway 34 (for landings into the north) can be used without ILS whenever the wind component does not exceedthe maximum permitted for the aircraft type (of the order of 25 knots for 'he large jets), the cloud base is not below 390 feet above the aerodsome, and the visibility is not less than 1 mile. Studies carried out in my Department show that cloud and visibility conditions worse than the above values are almost invariably associated with winds which would not permit landings on runway 34. Therefore, from the aspect of weather, the installation of ILS on runway 34 would have no appreciable effect on the availability of this runway. 
It is intended to provide an instrument landing system for runway 34 in conjunction with the next stage of runway development which has been approved by the Government. Work on extensioninto Botany Bay to 13,000 feet has already commenced and is scheduled for completion early in 1972. Engineering planning for the ILS is aimed at completing the whole installation at the time the extended runway is ready for use. 
There are considerable engineering difficulties in installing the facility now. The aerial for the glide path element of an ILS to serve the present runway 34 would need to be placed at least 2,000 feet from the southern sea-wall. The area of ground in front of the aerial must be appropriately smooth and level to achieve acceptable course quality. Even if this ground preparation was carried out at considerable cost, the civil works beyond the southern sea-wall which have now commenced would affect the quality ofthe glide path. This would make it necessary to decommission this facility for lengthy periods, if not for the whole time of construction. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The question of indirect employment is open to a number of interpretations, and for that reason, you may find details of total employment for the Civil Aviation industry the most appropriate. As at 30th June 1970 the numbers employed were estimated to be: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested can best be provided in tabular form. Two tables are provided, one foi capital expenditure on new runways and other assets and one for the costs of maintaining and operating those facilities, including meteorological services to civil aviation. No administration, depreciation or interest charges are included. 
Revenue is derived from several sources and is shown in the third table. Aviation fuel tax, which is collected by the Department of Customs and Excise, has been shown because the aviation industry regards these payments as contributions towards the cost of provision of civil aviation facilities by the Government. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The exit release was pulled by a child. The child was unaware of any other incident involving the aircraft and it was pure chance that the two happenings were coincident. 
Yes. The operation of emergency exits is required to be made simple, rapid and obvious so as to facilitate their use in an emergency. 
Both the emergency exits and doors of the DC9 are of the 'plug type' and cannot be opened in flight, either accidentally or deliberately, because of the pressure in the cabin. 
Emergency exits are designed so that once an exit has been opened it will be obvious and will require skilled persons to replace it Any interference with the exit on the ground therefore would be conspicuous to the flight crew or cabin attendants. Doors also have a warning system to alert the flight crew when they are not properly locked. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Health, Immigration and Customs procedures covering passengers arriving at the new international terminal are not causing confusion. 
Members of the public greeting passengers may be having some difficulties in contacting business associates and friends, because of the very much larger area involved in the new terminal. This problem was noted shortly after the commissioning of the new terminal and steps have been taken to meet the changed circumstances. This matter does not involve liaison between Customs and airline officers. 
The arrival procedures for passengers are under continuous review with the object of anticipating future problems and meeting current ones. For example, my Department, in conjunction with a concessionaire in the International Terminal, Travellers Service Centre, has already implemented a message system on an interim basis pending the provision of a communication facility between the gate positions and the Travellers Service Centre to enable  a  check to be made with the Centre as to the names of passengers for whom messages are held. It is intended that this information be conveyed to arriving passengers through the aircraft P-A. system. It is felt that this will help to overcome the particular problem to which you have directed my attention. 
The history of this is well known. There had been an agreement between the Commonwealth and New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia for the completion of the Dartmouth scheme as part of the overall River Murray development. The agreement was ratified by the Commonwealth Parliament, and by the Parliaments of New South Wales and Victoria, but although agreed to by the then Government of South Australia it was not ratified by the Parliament of South Australia. Then an election intervened. Subsequent to that, an approach has been made by the present Premier of South Australia. First of all. he approached me when I was in South Australia for other reasons. My understanding is that he has since written to the Prime Minister on this matter and also to the 2 other Premiers. I believe that South Australia will ultimately accept the situation as far as Dartmouth is concerned. The State has been making some conditions in relation to Chowilla. 
The position is that never at any time has it been stated that Chowilla was removed from consideration in the future. Chowilla is still a part of the overall programme for the ultimate development of the River Murray system. It was indicated that priorities should be given. It was agreed ultimately that priority should be given to the construction of Dartmouth, and the construction of Dartmouth was to provide additional water for South Australia. It is a fact that, in this House, Opposition members who represent South Australia have opposed the Dartmouth proposal, and my understanding- 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In December 1968 the Government decided to establish the Inter-Departmental Committee and this decision was put into effect in early 1969. 
The present members of the Committee are:  Mr J.  H. Harperf, Department of Civil Aviation  (Chairman) 

 Mr N. W. Hill, Department of Civil Aviation  Mr E.  S. Keehn, Department of the Interior  Mr J.  M. Brown, Department of the Interior  Mr R.  S. Gilbert, Commonwealth Treasury  Mr K.  W. See, Commonwealth Treasury  Mr H.  C. Williams, Department of Works  Mr R.  G. McLean, Department of Civil Aviation (Secretary). 
The Committee has met on the following dales: 1 April 1969  9 October 1969 30 October 1969 18 November 1969 4 February 1970 17 February 1970 17 March 1970  2 April 1970  16 April 1970 30 April 1970 14 May 1970  17 June 1970  18 June 1970 22 July 1970 29 July 1970 10 August J 970 I I August 1970. 
The Committee hopes to make a report to the Government within several weeks. 
Council Rates on Commonwealth Property  (Question No. 1291) 
lt is a fact that the honourable member for Gwydir and the honourable member for Maranoa have been in touch with me fairly constantly regarding this matter. As they are both aware, at their request I met a deputation in Brisbane some time ago from the local authorities and people in the district who were interested in this developmental project. As I indicated at the time and have mentioned in the House previously, when the new water resources development programme came into operation after the Prime Minister's announcement there were 4 projects from the previous programme left over for consideration. The Pike Creek Dam in the border rivers scheme was one of those projects. At the same time I indicated the priority that we expected would be given to the surveys which had to be undertaken in relation to these programmes. I said that the Bundaberg scheme in Queensland would be the first examined. As honourable members know, that survey was finalised and approval was given by this Parliament. I understand that work has now commenced. The second project in order of priority for consideration by the team of experts involved from both my Department and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics was the Pike Creek Dam. The third was the flood mitigation scheme in New South Wales and the fourth the York-Corrigin scheme in Western Australia. 
The survey had actually commenced on the Pike Creek Dam when, as honourable members will appreciate, the question of flood mitigation in New South Wales arose as a matter of urgency and there was extreme pressure at that time to have the survey completed. This was, firstly, because of the fact that it was a continuing work, that is. some work had been undertaken over past years and if the survey had not been completed and approval given by this Government at the time there would have been a good chance that that very important work of flood mitigation in the northern rivers of New South Wales would have stopped and the work force would have dispersed. In view of those factors we had to take the survey team off the Pike Creek Dam work and send it to New South Wales on flood mitigation work. That work was completed, the flood mitigation project was approved and the team was returned to the Pike Creek Dam. The survey in connection with that work has been completed and is now in the final stage of preparation for submission to the Government. I can assure the honourable member that everything possible is being done to expedite the finalisation of the documents for presentation to the Government for consideration. I expect this to be done in very quick time. 
I have read several articles in the Press recently, principally in the 'Australian', dealing with this matter. While I am sure we welcome constructive articles about important public matters, in one or two respects the articles 1 read were, to use a colloquial expression, a little off the beam, r understand that  Mr Moffitt  was the author of the articles. [ would be happy to discuss these matters with him at any time or to arrange for him to discuss them with officers of the Atomic Energy Commission. The honourable member has asked how Jervis Bay came to be selected as the site for our first nuclear power station. This matter goes back a number of years. Some years ago the Government, reviewing power requirements for the future, decided that there would be a requirement to supplement the present means of power generation by nuclear power. A decision was made in 1968 to investigate the desirability of the Commonwealth's constructing Australia's first nuclear power station. It was decided to discuss the matter with the States. My predecessor, the honourable member for Farrer, visited all States early in 1969 and discussed the matter at length with representatives of the States with a view to seeing whether the States were interested in joining the Commonwealth in construction of a nuclear power station, the Commonwealth to take over the capital cost. The various States indicated that they would have some interest in the matter for the future but New South Wales was the only State to indicate at that time that it would be prepared immediately to enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth. Formal discussions were held and it was decided to construct the station in the Australian Capital Territory, either in the area around Canberra or at Jervis Bay. A number of sites were investigated and ultimately the decision was made to select the Jervis Bay site which was considered not only by the Atomic Energy Commission but by the Elec tricity Commission of New South Wales to be the best available. Since then there has been progress on an agreement with the New South Wales Government and tenders have been called for the station. I announced on Monday that we now have reduced the 9 tenders by eliminating 5 and that there are 4 tenders remaining on the short list for consideration. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 am endeavouring to give some of the details. As I indicated to the House previously it would be impossible to give full details of all the tenders received because the weight of paper alone was 7 tons. The second point on this very important subject is the question of benefits that will flow to Australia from the erection of its first nuclear power station. Primarily, of course, it is designed to generate electricity which will be fed into the New South Wales grid. It is a coincidence that  the  500 megawatts that it will be providing, we hope in about 5 years time, will equate in about 10 years time the total requirement of the Australian Capital Territory. But that is by the way. The other principal benefit to be gained is that it will provide a training ground for personnel not only from the Atomic Energy Commission but also from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. I understand also that other States will be interested in training personnel at this first nuclear power station which is being provided by the Commonwealth with Commonwealth capital in conjunction with an agreement with the Government of New South Wales. 
Most of the matters to which the honourable member has referred are directly the sovereign rights of the States concerned. Therefore I am afraid that I would not be able to intervene, as suggested, in what might be a minor dispute between 2 States. The honourable member raised the question of sovereignty in respect of petroleum. As he knows, under the petroleum legislation there is an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States which does not define clearly the sovereign power in relation to these matters. It indicates that when a point arises on which there is a dispute the terms of the agreement will apply. I am sure that they do apply in this particular case. However if his question relates to sovereignty in other matters I can only refer him to an item which is on the notice paper at present dealing with sovereignty in another field. However, the main matter he raised is covered at present by existing legislation. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I merely indicate- 
That the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  be not further heard. 
I do so as a protest against his conduct in this debate. 
 I have not been trying to make a speech,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I merely wanted to indicate to the Opposition that its amendment is not acceptable to the Government. I move: 
That  the question be now put. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has now been drawn to the book 'Perils of the Peaceful Atom' by Richard Curtis and Elizabeth Hogan, which is not regarded as authoritative by reviewers. 
(a) Extreme precautions are taken in the design, construction and operation of nuclear power reactors to prevent major accidents from occurring; in the most unlikely event of a serious accident occurring, additional precautions are invariably taken to limit the consequences and to safeguard the health and safety of operating staff and public. The same precautions will apply in the case of the Jervis Bay plant. The precautions include nuclear siting, conformity of designs to rigid specifications and safety codes, analyses of plant behaviour under all possible conditions, strict quality control during manufacture, construction and installation, detailed checking and testing of plant prior to start-up and intensive training of operating staff and checking of operating procedures. Nuclear reactors are equipped with warning and safety devices which will shut the reactor down instantly if any fault occurs. Radioactivity which could prove harmful lo humans is contained behind a series of barriers, all of which would need to fail before any significant release of radioactivity could occur and as a final precaution the plant is surrounded by an exclusion zone which is under the control of the operating authority. 
The problem of radioactive waste disposal arises mainly from the chemical reprocessing of spent fuel elements. At this point no decision has been taken to reprocess spent fuel from the Jervis Bay Plant. Initially, therefore, the spent fuel will be stored under safe conditions at Jervis Bay or shipped overseas for reprocessing. 
Ultimately if a fuel reprocessing plant  it  established  in  Australia, high-level radioactive wastes viti almost certainly be concentrated and converted into  a  solid non-dispersible form which can be easily and readily stored. This practice  ii  now being adopted in the United States. 
During normal operation of the Jervis Bay station there will be  no  release  ot  radioactivity which could have any detectable effect on the local ecology. This will be ensured by standards laid down and by continuous monitoring processes. Only two factors are likely to have a bearing on this question, namely the disturbance caused by the actual construction of the station and the discharge of warm cooling water from the turbine condensers. These latter effects would be small and quite local and in any case would apply also to a conventional power station. 
Many of the safety features of a nuclear power station are an intrinsic part of the plant required for normal operation, although a certain amount of duplication and additional engineered safety features are incorporated to ensure complete safety under all conditions. Such features do account for a substantial part of the cost of a nuclear station but it is not possible to place a cost on them. 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission is a Commonwealth instrumentality and conforms to Government policy and practice. In the case of the Jervis Bay nuclear power plant the Commission will be responsible for ensuring the safety of the public and the staff of the Commission. 
The Jervis Bay Power Station will be owned by the Commonwealth and its financing wholly a Commonwealth responsibility, whereas the Gladstone Power Station is to be constructed by the State of Queensland and the Commonwealth assistance is to be in the form of a loan to meet part of the cost. The financing arrangements governing the supply of electrical energy from the Jervis Bay Station to the New South Wales grid have yet to be determined in consultation between the Commonwealth and the State. 
I can appreciate the concern of the honourable member in relation to this matter. Some reference was made to it yesterday by my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation in another place. It is a matter that is causing some concern to airline operators. The facts are that Australia has an enormous rate of expenditure on a large number of airports so as to provide facilities over a very large area, and although the domestic traffic is high by world standards the international traffic is still low by world standards. The land mass - the sheer geography of the country - creates problems in this regard. It has always been a policy here and in other countries to recover as much as possible from the people who use the services. The increase on this occasion is in accordance with that policy. Although some objections to the increases have been raised by airlines, the total amount to be gained from the increase this year will be $1.8m which will be only about 21% of the total expended during the year on the maintenance and operation of airport facilities. This amount represents about 50c a head, on average, for all passengers travelling by air to and from Australia. So 1 doubt whether this would really have the impact on tourism that has been indicated by overseas airline operators. However, 1 will ensure that the points raised by the honourable member are drawn to the attention of  my  colleague in another place. 
1 take up the final point that was mentioned by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  on the question of development because one matter that I feel should be referred to during this debate is the exciting prospect of Australia's natural resource development, which is contingent in part on the economic climate engendered by this Budget, f must also condemn the Opposition for its irresponsible criticism of the Budget by advocating massive spending under what it terms a responsible economic policy. Here we have a budget providing for a large increase in essential expenditures, especially on payments to the States, welfare, development and assistance to rural industry, including emergency relief for wool growers who have been hard hit by drought and low prices. We have a budget conferring personal income tax reductions worth S289m in a full year and increasing defence spending to Si, 1 37m. We have a budget anticipating an expenditure in the interests of the nation of $7, 883m, yet one that is shaped responsibly to the requirements of the economy. 
The people of this nation, I am sure, given the facts, will compare the responsible attitude of this Government in a period of world wide inflation with what can be termed the 'glad handing' of the Opposition, which has, I believe, total disregard for sound economic practice, and its proposals could only result in the greatest inflationary spiral that, this country has ever known. This policy propounded by the Opposition of spending far more than our revenue would have the effect of slowing down the growth rate particularly in the fields of rapid development, such as the minerals industry, but it could have a disastrous effect on the rural sector of the economy which is suffering from the effects of low world prices and demand, particularly in Queensland where the most serious drought in history is having a most serious effect in many areas. The Budget continues substantial drought relief and other direct and indirect assistance to the rural industries, but above all it is designed to maintain stability and contain inflation, which is of the greatest importance to all people in the community. 
I would now like to give the House an outline of part of the story of Australia's natural resource development, because it is only by making Australia great and strong in these fields as well that economic prosperity and a high standard of living for a rising population can be achieved and guidelines to economic progress can be laid down with confidence. Australia is assessing and developing natural resources at a greater rate than ever before, giving fresh impetus lo national growth and building a sound foundation for the future. Development is a national aim, but in a federal system of Government such as Australia's the administrative responsibilities are divided between Commonwealth and State governments. There has been, on the past of Australian governments, a conscious effort pursued with vigour to seek out, evaluate, and, with the co-operation of private enterprise, develop the nation's natural resources in minerals, forests, water and the land itself. 
There are 4 principal aspects to the development of Australia's natural wealth: The rapid expansion of minerals output, the building up and diversification of energy resources to meet the needs of an expanding and increasingly industrialised nation, the enlargement of water storage capacity for industry and domestic needs and for irrigation, and the planting of new forests of softwoods. The large minerals expansion that has taken place in the last decade has been in the vanguard of the development of our natural resources, and particularly in the impact of those resources on our national economy, lt has been estimated that investment in the Australian minerals industry in the last decade has exceeded $2, 300m - mainly on iron ore, coal, bauxite, oil and natural gas. As a result, Australia has become well known throughout the world as a reliable supplier of basic and manufactured products. 
Australia is self sufficient in all but a few minerals and earns some 25% of export income through the sale of mineral commodities to other countries. In brief, Australia is one of the world's principal suppliers and producers of lead, zinc, and silver; it has deposits of iron ore estimated to exceed 15,000 million tons; it holds a third of the non-Communist world's total bauxite reserves; it is an important and growing source of nickel and manganese; and is well endowed with black coal and there are very extensive deposits of brown coal in Victoria. The total ex-mine value of Australian minerals could reach $2,000m by 1975, of which about 80% will be exported, and we expect that a year or so after that the export income from minerals alone will rise to about $2,000m. 
As a result of developments of such magnitude in the minerals industry, together with increasing industrialisation and general growth and prosperity in these fields, the demand for primary energy in Australia will almost double during the next decade. The main sources of this energy will remain petroleum products and coal, but with the introduction of nuclear power as a supplement, discoveries of crude oil and extensive deposits of low-cost coal, Australia is better equipped than ever to face the challenges presented by this demand. An outstanding feature of the energy industry has been the spectacular increase in electricity generation to meet industrial and domestic requirements. There has, in fact, been a doubling of electricity production every 8 years, and to achieve this Australia is currently spending about $400m a year to provide new electricity generation capacity. 
I now wish to refer briefly to the importance of water in what is the world's driest continent. Commonwealth and State governments alike have stressed the importance of water resources as an essential element in national growth. Even though the estimated total run-off from streams, which is some 280 million acre feet a year, and average rainfall are low compared with other continents, Australia's water resources are substantial in relation to its small population. 
But a steady rise in the amount of water needed for industry, irrigation and urban domestic purposes has given a sense of urgency to the need for greater storage capacity and more efficient utilisation of our water. Expenditure by public authori ties on water works such as water supply, sewerage and irrigation has increased markedly over the past 10 years and now approaches $300m a year. 
Irrigation has been an important factor in helping to utilise Australia's water resources and in opening up new areas to settlement. With the completion of projects now- under construction or planned, the area of land irrigated will reach about 4 million acres by 1975. Through an expansion of stream gauging and the use of a series of representative river basins as models for the whole of the continent, the various governments concerned are building up a more detailed assessment of water resources as a basis for future planning. 
The same story of Commonwealth-State co-operation and forward looking policy applies to forests. The last few years have seen the development of new attitudes towards the utilisation of forest resources and a greater awareness of the value of trees and forests in the life of the nation. Australian timber producers have nearly doubled their production over the past 20 years, and though output is running in excess of 400 million cubic feet a year, this represents only about three-quarters of the total demand in Australia. As the productive forests are predominantly eucalypt hardwoods, the nation's deficiency is quite clearly in softwoods. To help overcome this deficiency, Australian governments and private enterprise have now planted one million acres of pine trees to meet our increasing future needs and the area of softwood plantation is expected to reach three million acres by the year 2000. The creation of these new forests will help reduce an import bill currently running at about $200m a year. 
Some developments in natural resources are inter-related. Rapid growth in mineral processing and metallurgical industries, for instance, will be a major factor in almost doubling Australia's demand for primary fuels in the next decade. In turn, the minerals industry will help meet the nation's basic energy requirements. 
By the end of 1971, Australia will be supplying about 65% of its requirements for crude oil from its own resources. In addition, natural gas, a comparatively new energy source for Australia, is expected to satisfy about 9% of the total primary energy market by 19S0. An important feature of many of these programmes is the way they have contributed to the development of northern Australia, an immense area through which population is spread very thinly. Some of Australia's most spectacular mining developments have occured there, leading to the construction of new towns, ports, railways and roads. Indeed, the north which was once considered the harsh half of the continent has come to play an important part in our national growth. But this has come about, to a large extent, because this Government and the governments of the States, have prosecuted in a most determined fashion, policies of encouragement and investigation ranging the whole spectrum of subsidies, surveys, mapping, geophysical investigation and so on. 
This Budget appropriates almost S38.5m this year to further the work of the Department, of National Development in Australia's interest and I feel certain the quite remarkable rate of growth we have made in the last decade will continue. For hand in hand with Government aid and encouragement will go the confidence of industry and the expertise of our own work force. 
It has become obvious to all in recent years that while our country has drawn on much overseas know how, it has become more and more integrated with the mainstream of world achievement. We have achieved a greater sophistication in technology and, above all, we have brought to the development and processing of our natural resources, those skills and techniques that will assure Australia's place in the comity of economically strong and progressive nations. But much of this would come virtually to nought if investigation, development, processing and marketing did not have the backing of sound economic policy. 
This Budget reflects just this, that in a time of disruptive inflation and despite large commitments, the Government nevertheless has been able to bring down a budget shaped to the requirements of an economy that is, as the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said, in the overall picture, dynamic and fast growing. This is a tremendous tribute to this nation's strength and to the fiscal guidelines that will stand it so much in good stead in the future. The Opposition's amendment and attack on the Budget lacks credibility mainly because its policies can survive and thrive only in economic and industrial disaster, and in the socialisation of human rights and aspiration. 
Finally, I wish to refer to the Jervis Bay project, and to some references made in this House to the matter. 
Sirring suspended from 12.45 to 2.1.5 p.m. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  before the sitting was suspended, I mentioned that 1 matter remained to which I wished to refer in this debate. That is the question of the development of the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. I speak on this matter principally because of the interest that has been shown by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and by some other honourable members in this House and because of the number of questions that have been raised in relation to it. 
The Government, through the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, has kept a close watch on the world development of nuclear power. This new source of energy is providing a significant and increasing portion of the energy needs of countries such as Great Britain, the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, France and Germany and also, in our own area, India, Japan and other countries. In 1975 it is expected that 1 28,000 mega watts of nuclear power will be derived from 283 reactors in 21 countries. Australia has come late to the use of nuclear power, mainly because we have substantial resources of low cost coal, and also because the small size of our generation systems did not allow us to take advantage of the low cost of nuclear power produced in large units. This situation is, however, changing and studies made in 1969 suggested that nuclear power could be an important and economical supplement to our other sources of power in the later 1970's and thereafter. 
The break into such a new technology is not easy and the Government felt that, since Australian expertise in nuclear energy was largely confined to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, there might be a case for the first step to be taken by the 
Commonwealth in association with those States which were contemplating the use of this energy source before long. Early in 1969 the Commonwealth consulted the States on their plans for the introduction of nuclear power and as a result concluded that it should co-operate with New South Wales in constructing a large power station with an output comparable to the needs of Canberra in the late seventies. A station of about SOO megawatts was envisaged because the cost of electricity from a nuclear station decreases sharply as size increases. Choice of a site has been governed by 2 main considerations. One is the suitability of the site itself having regard to such matters as cooling water supplied, foundations and the environment. The other is the ability of the State gen.erating system to accept the size of nuclear station selected. 
For the economical size of 500 to 600 megawatts, New South Wales has the only network meeting these conditions. Seven sites in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory were surveyed and Jervis Bay was found to be the best on all counts. In fact, as 1 have said before, it is close to ideal. Other States, although not able to accept such large units now, may anticipate being able to do so, by the early 1980s, lt has been suggested that Australia's first nuclear power station should have been coupled to a large desalination plant located in an area of water scarcity, such as South Australia. Unfortunately, no such large desalination plants have yet been built, although they are expected before the end of the century and the Government, while appreciating the attraction of the idea, could not undertake such a project at this stage. 
The Government has received extensive and valuable co-operation from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. The Electricity Commission has worked in close association with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in all phases of the planning for Jervis Bay. The Electricity Commission took part in the initial survey of possible sites within New South Wales and has also been involved in the environmental studies for the area. The 'Invitation to Tender' documents were prepared by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and its consultants in co-operation with the Electricity Commission. The experience of the Electricity Commission has proved invaluable and will contue to contribute throughout the later stages of planing and will play a. major role in the opertation of the station. 
In deciding to introduce nuclear power the Government has been aware of the outstanding safety record of the nuclear power industry in other countries. Indeed, it is one of the safest, if not the safest, industries of today. From years of experience, authorities overseas have established criteria for the siting and safe operation of nuclear power stations and the best of these have been adopted for Jervis Bay. The most stringent safety requirements for the nuclear steam supply system have been detailed in the tender documents. These requirements are designed to protect the health and safety of the community in. all circumstances Safety criteria have been established to ensure the effectiveness of the reactor containment and other protection systems even in the event of the maximum credible accident. 
I must emphasise that the reactor design and operating criteria are so chosen as to make the chance of a serious malfunction extremely remote, but nevertheless, the specifications require that the integrity of the containment shall be maintained even should the maximum credible accident occur - that is, the worst combination of events which it is possible to imagine. Tenderers have been required to provide information to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to assess the safety of their submitted designs. This information must suffice to show that the design, manufacture, erection and operation of the plant will meet the standards required by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Compliance will be enforced by inspections during construction and commissioning of the reactor. In addition, the radiation release criteria are to be reviewed independently by the National Radiation Advisory Committee which will advise the Government on their adequacy to protect the public. 
It is our policy to keep the House and the genera] public informed about the progress and purposes of the Jervis Bay project. When the final choice is made, as I have indicated before and to the honourable member for Lang, I intend to make in this House a detailed statement which, of course, will be a public statement. At that tune I shall be able to supply the figures which were asked for by the honourable member because at that point in dme we will know the type of station and the type of reactor that have been selected. In the meantime, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission is expanding its programme of public information. Typical of its activities was a public meeting held in Nowra on 19th August last. This meeting was sponsored by the Shoalhaven Combined Progress Associations and was attended by the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and senior members of the Commission staff. There was a full and free discussion and many questions were answered to the satisfaction of local residents. 
Commissioners and staff members give frequent talks and lectures to professional bodies, university groups, Rotary clubs and others. So far, 1 1 such talks have been scheduled for the month of September alone. The Commission has recently had a display caravan touring the Nowra area. A large exhibition dealing with nuclear power was presented at the Sydney Town Hall in June 1970 and in Canberra in September 1969. Sixteen press statements have been issued dealing with Jervis Bay and the Commission gives information to the Press day by day. Several booklets have been prepared and widely distributed and others containing greater detail will be issued when the design of the power station has been fixed. 
A number of questions have been asked about possible environmental pollution, especially as regards the discharge of radioactive wastes and warm cooling water. 
Tt can be stated quite positively that the problem of radioactive pollution will not arise at Jervis Bay since the amount of radioactivity contained in the discharge from the station will be strictly controlled and will be only a fraction of the limits prescribed by the International Commission on Radiological Protection, which is the internationally recognised expert body on this matter. In the unlikely event of a serious reactor malfunction as I remarked previously, the reactor containment would remain intact and would limit the spread of any radioactivity to below levels which are internationally agreed. In this situation there would be no danger at all to inhabitants in areas around Jervis Bay As regards thermal effects, the temperature of the water discharged from the cooling condensers is expected to be approximately 10 degrees higher than that of the temperature of the ocean water. This difference will disappear within less than 100 yards of the outfall, depending upon the extent of the turbulence of the water in the area. It is considered that no harmful ecological effects will result from the discharge of this water into the Pacific Ocean. 
Finally. I would like to refer to the maintenance of the area. The site is in an attractive part of the Commonwealth Territory which is administered by the Department of the Interior. In order to preserve the natural flora and fauna to the greatest possible extent, that Department has been consulted on all aspects of site development. Construction activities are being restricted to the minimum practicable area and on the completion of construction, full restoration will be carried out wherever required. We anticipate that the power station will attract a large number of visitors and the Atomic Energy Commission is making special arrangements so that this unique development in Australia can be seen by as many citizens of Australia as possible, under conditions which will be safe, informative and comfortable. 
As I indicated earlier when the selection of the reactor to be included in this power unit has been made a full and detailed statement will be made to the House. This statement will answer a number of the other questions which have already been raised. I conclude on the note on which I started. I regard this Budget - and I am sure responsible people in the community do - as one which is designed to maintain stability in the economy and to deal in a responsible way with the enormous expenditures which are involved and which substantially cover large increases of revenue to the States. I feel that the Opposition's amendment is an irresponsible one. I am sure it will be rejected by the House. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1 and 2) The two major domestic airlines have expressed a preference for Kalgoorlie. The international airlines accept Adelaide but would prefer a closer alternate for economic reasons in the longer term. 
Other airports additional to Kalgoorlie may need to be considered bearing in mind the developing pattern of domestic and international jet operations. For that reason and with proper regard to what could prove to be a multi-million dollar requirement it is not expected that we will be iti a position to reach a firm conclusion until late in 1971. 
First of all, at this stage no tenderers can be confident that they will be successful in gaining the contract for the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. On the question of Australian fuel, it was not expressed in the tenders that this should be natural uranium. A condition relating to tendering was that Australian uranium should be used. This does not mean of course that the initial charge in the first reactor which we install would necessarily be fuel from Australian uranium. I should qualify that by saying that some reactors could be installed on the basis that the guarantee would be provided only if the initial charge of fuel were provided by the manufacturer at that time. This is understandable in view of the complexities involved in the fuel systems. However tenders must bc related to the use of fuel from Australian uranium in the future. This does not mean that the reactor contract will be restricted to the use of natural uranium. Australian uranium could be processed either here or overseas dependent on the type of fuel required. 
As I announced last week, we have now a short list of tenders. Out of the 9 original tenders 4 remain on the list for further consideration. They are at present being subjected to an intense study and before the end of the year we will have reached a decision and made a recommendation to the Government on the one that should be accepted. The 4 tenders involve 4 different countries, 4 different manufacturers and different types of fuel system. Until studies are completed it will not be certain what type of fuels will be used. But there is a condition with which all tenderers will have to comply, and that is that they use Australian uranium in the future, whether it be in the form of natural uranium, partly enriched uranium or enriched uranium. That condition will apply to whichever contract is awarded. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two wood chip export projects have been approved and the associated facilities are at the construction stage, one in New South Wales and one in Tasmania. Harris-Daishowa (Aust.) Pty Ltd has approval to export up to 600,000 tons of green chips per annum; shipments will be from Twofold Bay; the project is running behind schedule and it is hot known when the first shipment will take place. Tasmanian Pulp and Forest Holdings Ltd has approval to export from Triabunna in eastern Tasmania, 600,000 tons of green chips per annum for 15 years commencing in 1971. A second Tasmanian group, Northern Wood Chips Pty Ltd, failed to gain Commonwealth approval for a contract because the price proposed was too low and there was no firm processing proposal. This preliminary contract has now expired. Press reports indicate that Northern Wood Chips Pty Ltd is endeavouring to negotiate another contract and that it is proceeding with the building of a wood chip plant in northern Tasmania. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd is also operating in northern Tasmania and on 15th July 1970, the Premier of Tasmania announced that this company bad made firm arrangements covering the supply of 600,000 tons per year of wood chips from Bell Bay. However, as yet, no proposal has been received by the Commonwealth for approval. The W.A. Chip and Pulp Co. Pty Ltd (an associate of Bunning's Timber Holdings Ltd) al Bunbury has timber rights granted by the Western Australian Government for the production of chips and is understood to bc negotiating with potential Japanese purchasers, lt is also understood that there are several other possible projects under examination in Victoria. New South Wales, Queensland and Northern Territory. 
I will see that the question is referred to my colleague in another place and that a reply is received. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The 27 Government owned and 58 licensed aerodromes in Western Australia are all suitable for Regulation 203 operations. 
The only authorised landing area used by a commuter service  b  at Mingenew which is privately owned. 
There are no doubt other authorised landing areas which could accommodate ANR.203 service*.. However, the use of these landing areas is a matter between the land owner and the operator concerned. They are created in accordance with standards set by the Department but they are not required to keep the Department informed as to their availability unless there is a specific commuter service proposal. 
and (3) Of the 58 licensed aerodiomes in Western Australia 12 are owned by the local Councils and are entitled to benefits under our Aerodrome Local Ownership scheme. Nine of these Council aerodromes have Regulation 203 services. 
Grants paid to Council aerodromes where there are ANR.203 services are as follows: 
Certain of these aerodrome projects were initiated by Local Government Authority. Others, such as Esperance and Rottnest Island, were Government aerodromes which were then transferred io tocal ownership control. One condition of the transfer is to ensure that the aerodrome is equal to normal and foreseeable operational commitments. Where this in turn requires additional aerodrome works the relevant costs are reflected in the above figures. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following  answer  to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister lor Civil Aviation is expecting to receive the report of the Inter-Departmental Committee within a month. After consideration of this report the Minister intends to refer it to the Government as soon as possible. It is unlikely that any statement will be released on the report until after its consideration by the Government.. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposals advanced in the report for new port works at Darwin are still under consideration in the context of the detailed planning and design work which is currently in hand. 
1 am sure that we all dep.ore the acts of violence which have been committed, not only recently but also in the past, in relation to aircraft engaged in international fligths and some domestic aircraft. Australia has been participating very actively, with other members of thi International Civil Aviation Organisation, in a number of special conferences designed to deal with this subject. There was such a meeting last June and a further meeting will be held about 1st November to deal specially with matters of this nature. Australia has participated actively in the previous meetings and will participate in the meeting in November. Australia is also continuing active participation in meetings as a member of the 1CAO Council. In addition to this, of course, we have been keeping very closely in touch with developments in the United Nations. We have noted that the United Nations Security Council has condemned very strongly these acts and the perpetrators of them. We also stand ready to attend, if required, any special meetings which may be called or held when the United Nations General Assembly meets shortly. 
Certain actions have already been taken to safeguard to the greatest posible degree our own international operations and our domestic operations. Within Australia our domestic laws are suitable and adequate to deal with the situation and severe penalties can be applied not only for this type of act but also for other acts associated with interference with aviation generally. So I can assure the House that the Government is aware of this problem and is taking every possible action at the present time to deal with it. 
I think I should point out at the outset that the production of power is principally a matter for the State governments. The Commonwealth comes in as far as its own territory is concerned, and to some degree in the coordination of State policies. There are different means by which we do institute discussions on occasions with the States in relation to these matters. Only last Thursday in Brisbane we met as Ministers concerned in northern development. Present were the Ministers representing the Commonwealth - the Minister for National Development, and the Minister for the Interior representing the Northern Territory - the Premier of Queensland as Minister for State Development and the Western Australian 
Minister for Industrial Development and Minister for the North West. This was one of the matters that was discussed at length. On occasions through various other joint authorities and joint councils this point is discussed, but I do not think it would be for the Commonwealth to initiate an investigation into matters which are primarily the responsibility of the State governments. We can suggest to them that we can assist in the co-ordination of efforts. Certainly as far as this is understood we are doing everything possible. I do not see the necessity at this point of time for the type of investigation by this Parliament that the honourable member suggests. I conclude by saying that this matter, in the overall sense, has received quite a lot of attention by my Department. We have a certain number of ideas about it, some of which we hope to bc discussing with the States in the near future. 
I suggest that if the honourable member studies the notice paper carefully he will realise the position. There is a considerable number of questions - I think it runs into many hundreds - relating to various matters which are directed to a number of different departments. I know there is quite a considerable number of questions which the honourable member quite rightly has placed on notice relating to this very important matter. He will be happy to know that in the last couple of days I have sent through a couple of answers. We expect to get some additional answers through in the next week or so. As soon as possible we will supply answers to all the questions he has asked and, I hope, provide all the information he requires. I can only say that the questions must be given priority according to the order in which they are placed on the notice paper. A considerable amount of time is involved in preparing the answers because we want to make sure that the information is correct and in sufficient detail in order to meet the requirements of the honourable member. 
It is a fact that a number of authorities throughout the world publish the information that the honourable member has mentioned. We certainly get copies of most of the documents concerned and we study them. The position in Australia, of course, is a little different from that in the countries that the honourable gentleman mentioned in that Australia does not yet have a nuclear power station and so we cannot yet maintain records or publish any data. I can assure the honourable member that when a decision is made - and I hope it will be made before the end of this year - on the contract for our first nuclear power station and the type of station is known we will be in a position to indicate finally the capital cost involved and we will also have available to us data from countries operating stations of that type. That information could be published. In addition I can assure the House that when data becomes available from our own station, when it is in operation, such information will be made available fully to the House. 
First of all, 1 wish to correct what was the last statement in that question, that is, that the specifications indicated favour of a certain type of fuel. This is not right. The specifications are quite open and they would cover any type of fuel which could be used in any type of reactor. The 9 tenders which were submitted covered a variety of types of fuel. The 4 that are on the short list for consideration for the Jervis Bay reactor are of different types of fuel. Those 4 tenders are on the short list for consideration at the moment. 1 turn to the question regarding natural uranium. Perhaps the honourable member has in mind the fact that we did include in the tender specifications a reference to the fact that Australia would require a reactor and that in the future we would use Australian uranium. But we did not indicate that it was to be natural uranium or whether it was to be processed to the enrichment stage. On the question of the period in which refuelling is required, I point out that this varies with different types of reactors. My understanding is that the charge with natural uranium lasts approximately 2 years and that, in fact certain types of partly enriched and enriched uranium would have about :h same period. In some cases this is longer depending upon the type of reactor. 
When it comes to the question of the disposal of waste material, the situation differs between the waste that is produced from enriched uranium and from natural uranium. Waste material is not just disposed of as such. Waste material from the reactor goes through reprocessing. Then, some of the fuel can be reused. So, the amount of waste from the use of natural uranium and enriched uranium is practically identical. The same method of disposal is used in both cases. In our case, of course, it will be done to the highest international standard recognised throughout the world today. 
It is my lucky day. I cannot recall the report to which the honourable member referred, but I will certainly arrange to have it provided and study the points that have been raised. The decision to build a nuclear power station in Australia was taken after consultation with all the States. My predecessor, the honourable member for Farrer, spent some considerable time in discussions with the various States regarding the proposal at this point of time for the introduction of nuclear power as a supplement to existing power systems in Australia. It was found as a result of those discussions that the New South Wales grid was the only one that could accept 500 megawatts, which is the proven minimum economic size for a nuclear power station these days. There fore the agreement was discussed and negotiated with the Government of New South Wales. Other States have indicated their interest in nuclear power. I have mentioned that we had a conference on northern development last week and we discussed this matter in the context of power generation for the future with the States of Queensland and Western Australia. They have indicated that at some time in the future there will be a positive interest in those States the same as there will be an interest in the southern States. 
The reason for the selection of the Jervis Bay site was that, first of all, it was technically the most suitable site and, secondly, it was considered that because the Commonwealth was providing the finance it would be desirable to have the station installed in the Australian Capital Territory. But this was not the final reason why it was selected. It was selected because it was the best area of a number of areas which had been investigated in the Capital Territory around Canberra and Jervis Bay and also in parts of New South Wales. The final choice of site was made because it was considered to be the most suitable. Whatever the constitutional situation may be, the honourable member will be happy to know that matters of this nature are arranged by agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. He will be pleased to know that the Commonwealth has concluded an agreement with New South Wales. I hope that within a few days a joint statement in relation to this matter will be made by the Commonwealth Government and the New South Wales Government. 
I will only keep the House for a couple of minutes. While I do not agree with many of the things the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said I do appreciate the study he has made of a subject that is fairly important at the moment. I have had the opportunity to have some discussions with Queensland Mines Limited today and we had the benefit of assistance from many members of the Press Gallery after our discussions. No doubt quite a few comments that emerged from that discussion will appear in the Press tomorrow. 
But at this time I think 1 can reaffirm what the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  said in answer to a question today in relation to foreign ownership. There will be a further statement made in the near future on this subject and it will clarify the whole situation. There is little I can say in relation to the measurable reserves of the  2  companies, Peko-Wallsend Ltd and Queensland Mines Ltd, at the moment. We are in the process of discussing these matters with them and we would expect that it would bc some time before we have final details of all the reserves that can be actually measured. But there has been sufficient indication that the deposits are substantial enough for us to make any decision that would be required in relation to export policy. 
The present export policy is sufficiently flexible to deal with the situation and with the reserves being at the limit they are, or have already been proven, if contracts are obtained overseas the applications will be considered on their merits when they are submitted to me. But at this time I can only say that I know that at least one company is considering obtaining overseas contracts for the export of uranium from the new deposits and I would expect in the fairly near future - within a matter of the next few months - that some submissions would be made for consideration. All the points that have been mentioned regarding protecting our own requirements for the future, the extent of the reserves and the other policy matters that are taken into consideration under our existing export policy will, of course, be applied in these cases. At this time it is too early to say anything beyond that but at a later point when something more definite is known I will inform the House as fully as I can. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Because of the lack of information readily available, it is not possible to list the night operating restrictions applying at all the world's international airports, but it is hoped that the following list, which has been compiled from a number of sources, will serve as a useful guide to the information sought 
The nature of the restriction in each case is also set out in the following list: 
The position in relation to this is one of pure administration. The officer concerned was acting as an observer at the talks and some time previously arrangements had been made for his reposting in the department to a position where his knowledge of the situation in Europe and other areas would be availed of. This arrangement had been made some time before. Australia has still an observer at the talks and that observer is, as is normal in cases like that, a senior officer from the Embassy in Paris. That is the situation at the present time. 
I have not seen the statement to which the honourable member refers. I will see that a copy is produced and study it. I can assure him that the principles he has outlined in his question are those to which this Government subscribes. I will see what can be done about his suggestion. 
 I am sure we all appreciate the thoughtful contribution that has been made to the debate by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I will certainly examine the request he has made in relation to the Pearson report to see whether it can be made available to all honourable members. I can certainly advise him later regarding this. The position regarding aid is, of course, broadly as he stated it. I suppose there is no country that would be in a position to say that it felt it was providing enough from its own resources. But I think we must examine also the type of aid that is provided. Australian aid when it is provided, as has been stated tonight by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  is mostly in the form of a direct grant, or whatever form the aid takes it is not repayable. In many cases aid provided by other countries is on the basis of a repayable loan or aid provided in other forms which has to be met by some subsequent payment. In some cases part of the aid provided is in the form of a grant and part of it is repayable. But there is another point too which I think we must recognise and that is that when aid is provided it is the general rule that the type of aid required and the items concerned are at the request of the receiving country. 
It may be that at certain times it is better to provide food as aid, as we have done in certain circumstances at the request of the country concerned. But the general policy is to try to provide something more in the long term that will help the ultimate development of the country concerned in the way of farm equipment, plant and a variety of other types of items that can be utilised to assist in its development. This is the type of aid which we feel does bring greater benefit in the end to the receiving country. But at the same time it is recognised that there are occasions when, in the short term, special aid has to be provided in the way of food or other materials of that nature when some natural disaster affects the country concerned. So I appreciate the comments of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in relation to this and I can assure him that the points that he has raised will certainly be taken into consideration. 
As this debate is drawing to a close I want to refer to some of the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Early in the debate he alleged that there are self-contradictions and inconsistencies in Australia's foreign policy, particularly in the case of our policy towards the Indo-China region, especially Cambodia and Vietnam. I agree with the view that obviously forms the basis of these charges, that the problems in both countries stem from the same fundamental cause, and that cause is the aggressive policies of North Vietnam and the refusal of that regime to settle by negotiation the conflicts it has itself created in South Vietnam and Cambodia. This fundamental fact is common to both situations but it has to be recognised that there are differences between the 2 situations which Australian policy must take into account. We must have regard to the particular circumstances, to the timing of developments and to the practical limits to our own political and military influence. We must also recognise that we have wider responsibilities and interests in the Asian region as a whole, but it has to be recognised that there are differences between the 2 situations which, of course, as I mentioned before, we must particularly take into account. 
As a result there are, of course, differences between our policies towards Cambodia and Vietnam, but they are not self-contradictions and they are certainly not inconsistencies. They are differences that arise from the facts which must form the basis of policy. Let me mention some of these facts. South Vietnam sought our military assistance not in 1970 but in 1962, again in 1965 and subsequently when it alone was bearing the full brunt of North 
Vietnamese aggression. Cambodia has not asked us for troops. It has made it clear that it does not want to join any military pact or alliance but wishes to pursue a policy of neutrality. That, of course, makes a difference as far as the 2 countries are concerned. The Djakarta Conference initiative, in which we have participated actively since its inception, and which is something new in the region, was designed to help to secure, by peaceful means the continued independence and neutrality of Cambodia. That loo has made a difference in the region. There is, regrettably, an overwhelming consistency in North Vietnam's policies. It has sought, in open contravention of the Geneva Agreements, to take over South Vietnam by military means. Despite their participation in the Paris talks the leaders in Hanoi go on repeating publicly and openly their determination to go on fighting in the south until they achieve what they claim final victory. They are now also using military means in an effort to overthrow the established Government of Cambodia, largely because the Cambodian people decided not to tolerate any longer Hanoi's abuse of their territory. 
In relation to South Vietnam. Hanoi refused for years to enter into discussions. It has subsequently refused to participate in genuine negotiations even though the allied side has repeatedly stated that everything is negotiable except the fundamental right of the South Vietnamese people to determine their own future. The South Vietnamese Government has repeatedly offered to enter into direct negotiations with the National Liberation Front. It is the Front that has repeatedly refused to do so. Similarly, the Vietnamese Communists have refused to enter into direct negotiations with the Cambodian Government despite repeated offers to do so. There is, indeed, a great deal of consistency as far as the other side is concerned. But as far as Australia is concerned we shall go on responding to the facts. We shall continue in whatever ways are open to us and as are appropriate to support allied efforts to achieve a negotiated settlement in Vietnam. We shall continue to support the efforts of Indonesia, Japan and Malaysia, as representatives of the Djakarta Conference, to achieve a negotiated settlement in Cambodia. 
In the continued absence of any sign of a reasonable response from Hanoi to these efforts we shall go on helping to develop South Vietnam's capacity to defend itself, which has already progressed to the point of allowing the withdrawal of some of our forces which were stationed there. We shall also go on helping Cambodia, according to our means, lo defend itself against aggression. In the continuing absence of any response from Hanoi to the reasonable proposals of the Djakarta Conference there is no inconsistency in providing the Cambodian people, if necessary, with some arms as well as logistical equipment with which to defend themselves. Our responses to the situations in Cambodia and Vietnam are thus different because the situations, when looked at as a whole, are themselves quite different. At the same time, however, Australian policy will continue to be guided by one single consistent and overriding aim - to help the people of Vietnam and Cambodia, indeed of all the countries in the area, to maintain their fundamental right to determine their own future. 
I wish now to refer to one or two comments which were made by other honourable members in this debate. I refer first of all to comments made by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  who said that 10 per cent of official aid should be channelled through voluntary aid agencies and similar organisations. Whilst 1 appreciate very much the contribution that he made and the thoughtful way be dealt with this subject I would like to refer to the Government's policy in relation to voluntary aid which policy was set out by the then Minister for External Affairs in the House on 14th March 1967. There have been no major changes in our attitude since then. In Australia the scale of voluntary aid is small compared with that of some other major donors, but even so its annual outflow is not insignificant and it amounted to $13.7m in the calendar year 1969. The Government recognises the part played by voluntary aid agencies and has adopted a policy of encouraging their efforts. We do not see voluntary aid as competitive but complementary to official aid. 
There are distinctions between official and voluntary aid which limit governmental assistance to the activities of the voluntary agencies. Some of these involve, first of all, the question of accountability of public funds and, secondly, the differences  of  pro  cedures,  particularly  the  long-standing principles  that  governmental aid should be organised  on  a government-to-government basis and be  in  response  to  official requests. As I said earlier  in  response  to  points raised by  the  honourable member for Melbourne Ports, voluntary agencies tend to disburse aid for projects decided by themselves or carrying a lower priority than others in the eyes of the Government  of  the recipient country. There is also the matter that relates to the size of aid projects and their nature, which in the case of voluntary agencies are sometimes small and of a welfare nature rather than a developmental nature. The Government's role in the field of voluntary aid is illustrated by its grants to the Overseas Service Bureau which receives a contribution towards the cost of the Australian Volunteers Abroad scheme, and to the Australian Council for Overseas Aid which receives $16,000 each year towards administrative costs. This Council acts as the channel between the Government and the voluntary agencies. 
The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  referred to an item in the estimates which suggested that the $500,000 special aid to South Vietnam does not meet the need in that country. The figure of $500,000 for special aid to South Vietnam, which is listed on page 56 of statement No. 8 attached to the Budget Speech, is in fact only one component of Australia's aid commitment to that country for this financial year. In addition to the special aid, there is also the Colombo Plan economic and technical assistance, and SEATO economic aid. When we add the figures as they appear in the estimates before the House, they total $3.5m for this year. This figure, of course, is exclusive of the Australian military expenditure that is involved. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr bryant)raisedapointregardingthelaotlan  refugees. He did this, of course, in a constructive sense. But I think I should point out to him that some provision is already made in the Estimates for supplies in the form of aid to meet some of the needs of Laotian refugess. In fact, if we look back on the previous year  -  1969-70 - the items concerned consisted of agricultural hand tools which were valued at $13,800. This year $10,000 has been allocated at the request of the Laotian Government, and most of this amount will be set aside again for hand tools. Of course, this is in accordance with the policy of devoting aid, where possible, for developmental purposes. However, the point that the honourable member raised was in relation to ground sheets, mosquito nets and blankets. These have already been covered in an item in the estimates. The honourable member will find that an amount of $2,500 is set aside for the purpose of assisting refugees in this regard. This again bears out the policy to which I referred earlier, that this was a special request made for these items, whereas basically the items provided had been for developmental purposes. As was also referred to by the honourable member for Wills, these items were provided at the special request of the Government concerned. 
I would also like to refer to the situation regarding aid of a general nature in the area concerned. The aid that has been provided over the years has been substantially a combination of military and civil aid. This, of course, has brought about the results which we can see quite conclusively in South Vietnam today. I have had the opportunity over recent months, as have honourable members opposite, to study a map showing the various hamlets that are under control in South Vietnam. The aid that is being provided of a civilian nature is not only supplementing the military aid but also supplementingthe civil aid from other countries. This has done a tremendous amount to assist the development of agricultural pursuits in these regions. I am sure that the additional aid that is being provided in the Budget on this occasion will assist substantially in this regard. I conclude by referring to what I believe has been a constructive debate. A variety of views has been expressed from both sides of the Committee. Some of them have been conflicting but, of course, that is the advantage of a debate of this type. I can assure honourable members that the points that have been raised on both sides of the chamber will be noted for future reference. 
1 want to refer only very briefly to some points that were raised by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  on the subject of some flooding that occurred recently in the River Murray basin. He had been in touch with me regarding this matter on several occasions, as he indicated, and had sent a number of telegrams relating to the situation as it was at that time. I pointed out to him that broadly the matter to which he referred by telegram - that is, the conducting of an aerial survey of the flooding - was principally one that would come within the control of the State authorities, and I suggested that contact should be made with them. I do not know whether contact was made with them or whether a survey was carried out; but it was principally their responsibility. 
The other point regarding the actual release of water from the Hume Weir was a point of contention at the time. This matter, of course, as the honourable member knows, is controlled by the officers of the River Murray Commission, who are very experienced in this field and who have the benefit of all the meteorological information that is available at the time. On this occasion, I had the Commission issue a statement because of the problem of flooding that had arisen. Some people thought that the releases of water from the dam bad made the situation worse. In fact, I think the point was clearly brought home that if the controlled releases had not. been made and it had been necessary some days later to release a far greater volume of water within one 24-hour period the flooding would have been a lot worse than it was. 
It was impossible to forecast weeks ahead what the weather conditions would be in the catchment area of the Snowy. Everything possible is done to obtain the most up-to-date information and the releases are made when the dam is full in accordance with the information that is available. I can assure the honourable member that, on this occasion, every possible action was taken to ensure that the least possible damage was caused by the release of water, which of course added to the flooding in the region. The honourable member raised for consideration one or two other matters. I certainly will see that they are investigated. I will contact him later to see whether anything further can be done. 
-The Minister  for  C'v''  Aviation  has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
Because of the widely variable effects of noise propagation and the equally variable reaction of individual listeners to noise, it is not possible to state a definite height above which the noise from large jet aircraft ceases to be a nuisance to some degree or other. However, it can be said that the great majority of complaints are associated wilh take-offs and landings under conditions where the aircraft are less than 1500 feet above runway level. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I assure the House that the Government is viewing the situation in Jordan with great concern. It is a very serious matter affecting not only the Middle East but the whole world. The position at the moment is rather obscure. About 12 days ago a cease fire agreement was reached between the Jordanian army and the groups known as the Commandos, but the cease fire was violated on frequent occasions, so much so that on occasions the period of the cease fire lasted only a few hours. It became apparent that the situation was almost completely out of hand and on 15 th September the King announced that the previous government was resigning and that a military government would be established and martial law declared. At the moment Australia has no direct representation in Amman but is represented by the British Embassy there. To my knowledge no Australian interests or personnel axe involved in the incidents which are occurring. However, the situation is being watched very closely. A new commanderinchief was appointed but he was appointed not only commander-in-chief but also military governor of Jordan. Military governors have been appointed to all the districts throughout Jordan. The position is obscure and it is too early to predict the outcome of the present situation although the King has publicly announced that he wishes to resume negotiations with the Commandos. We can only hope that negotiations can be resumed and some satisfactory settlement arrived at which will assist in the peaceful settlement of the Middle East situation. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
(a) There was not a loss of power from two engines but there was an interruption to the power of one engine on the port side because of ingestion of seagulls, 
The weight of the aircraft at take-off was considerably below the structural weight limit for this aircraft type but the aircraft was overloaded for the particular runway, under the ambient conditions, through an error in the computation of fuel load arising from the use by Pan American Airways of a family hydrometer. 
While both of these factors were present in the circumstances of the accident they do not alone constitute the cause of the accident. 
The Air Safety Investigation Branch has just completed a full investigation of the accident and, in accordance with international agreement, a copy of the report has been made available to the United States of America in which country the aircraft was registered. Copies of the report are now available in the Parliamentary Library and a copy is being provided to the honourable member. 
It is a fact that crude petroleum discovered in Australia, particularly crude petroleum contained in the Bass Strait deposits, has a high light fraction content. This means that there is still a requirement for industry to import a certain volume of heavier fuel oil and heavy diesel fuel. At the same time, I should mention that we are also in the process of exporting certain petroleum products. In addition, I think it is common knowledge that there are some advantages today in the use of liquefied petroleum gas for automotive purposes. Experiments are being conducted in some other countries and a limited number of vehicles are operating in Victoria on liquefied petroleum gas. I can only commend those concerned with this operation and I hope that its usage can be extended. However, the answer to the question about the replacement of fuel oil by natural gas is very obvious: Natural gas can, under some circumstances and where economically feasible, take the place of heavy fuel oil. We hope that there will be an increasing opportunity for the use of natural gas in Australia. At the moment I do not know whether South Australia and New South Wales have entered into any agreement in relation to the supply of natural gas from South Australia to New South Wales. No doubt, if any agreement is reached, we will be informed fairly early in the piece. When that stage is reached I will certainly pass the information on to the honourable member. We do not have any knowledge as to whether Victoria and New South Wales have reached a similar agreement in this field. 
Pursuant to section 32b of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Power Act 1949-1966 I present the twenty-first annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority for the year ended 30th June 1970 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
I know that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has a reputation as a humourist but I am afraid he carried this a little too far in some of the points he made tonight. One thing that has been missed in this debate relates to the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation, is that no member of the Opposition, perhaps with the exception of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who did make brief reference to it, paid a tribute to the work that the officers of the Department of Civil Aviation are doing. I know from experience, after being with them for some years, that they give dedicated service, and I am sure the whole of this House recognises the world standard that has been achieved by the Australian Department of Civil Aviation. We know also the vital role that is being played by civil aviation in Australian development today. It is being played by the aviation industry and the Department of Civil Avi ation in partnership. So I think on an occasion such as this a tribute should be paid to what has been achieved with perhaps a little less criticism directed against the industry and the Department. 
It has gone on record overseas time and time again that the Australian Department of Civil Aviation and the Australian aviation industry are among the best in the world. That reputation is being maintained today and will be maintained in the future. The estimates on this occasion again indicate the determination of the Government to maintain the service that is being provided by the Department and by the industry. 
The honourable member for Grayndler mentioned one matter which I think should be corrected. He referred to a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at the opening of the international terminal at Tullamarine recently when he announced that the operations at Tullamarine both for international and for domestic operations, when they commence sometime next year, will be permitted during the 24-hour period, with some normal restrictions on operations and on ground running at the same time. But the 24-hour operation applies as far as Tullamarine is concerned. The honourable member for Grayndler said that the Prime Minister announce the lifting of the curfew at the new Tullamarine airport. Of course, he knows that this is entirely incorrect. It is incorrect because there has never been a curfew applied and it was never intended that a curfew would be applied at Tullamarine. The very reason why that site was selected, why such a large area was secured at that time and why other arrangements were made was to ensure a full round the clock operation and when the terminal was opened for international operations recently the Prime Minister reaffirmed the previously announced policy, which I myself stated in this House some years ago - that is, that when Tullamarine was opened there would be a 24-hour service. So the honourable member's statement, like many of his statements, was entirely incorrect. He referred also by inference to what he claimed to be a fact - that this would mean a lifting of the curfew in Sydney. Of course, again he knows that this is incorrect also. The Government has affirmed on quite a number of occasions that the curfew for operations at 
Sydney Airport is being maintained. That still applies. 
The honourable member for Newcastle, in opening the debate for the Opposition, referred to a matter which is of great concern at present, and that is the question of hijacking. He asked why no statements had been made and he queried the action that is being taken by the Government in relation to this matter. Only about a week ago I answered a question in this chamber on behalf of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in which I indicated the actions that are being taken. Australia has been particularly active in the international field in dealing with this question. We have acceded to the Tokyo convention, as has already been stated. This followed approval by legislation which was passed through this Parliament earlier this year. When the honourable member said that this became operative a matter of only some days ago he was, of course, quite correct, but this was a matter of the normal processes for the introduction of the terms of the convention. Our legislation has been effective since 1963. 
We have been active also in drafting the proposed convention on the extradition of offenders in hijacking cases. Australia was represented by a very strong delegation, headed by the Director-General of Civil Aviation and including representatives of Australian pilots, at the Montreal conference in June 1970 when certain recommendations were made by the International Civil Aviation Organisation which have been adopted by various countries. At that particular meeting representatives of over 90 governments strongly condemned hijacking and considered security measures to prevent criminal action on aircraft in future. A list of security measures at airports was drawn up at that time. As I stated the other day, the Department of Civil Aviation has implemented certain  measuresandstepshavebeentakenbyour  international operator and our domestic operators in Australia to safeguard passengers in accordance with the ICAO resolutions which were drawn up at the June conference. A further meeting of the ICAO Council was held last week in Montreal. That meeting dealt with a number of matters in relation to hijacking and a further meeting will be held on 29th November at which Australia will be strongly represented. I can merely conclude on this point by saying that everything possible is being done by the Australian Government to ensure that its aviation and passengers associated with its aviation operations are safeguarded. 
The honourable member for Newcastle queried also the accident report in connection with the accident which occurred to a Pan-Am aircraft in Sydney in December 1969. He questioned what he termed the delay' in the report being furnished to him and publicly. No delay occurred, but the reason for the time which elapsed before the final submission of this report was that the aircraft engines had to be sent to the United States of America for stripping down and for examination there. After this report was received a copy of it was sent by the Director-General of Civil Aviation in Australia to the United States National Transportation Safety Board and he drew attention to its conclusions and commented on the matters likely to warrant being referred to the operator, Pan American World Airways Incorporated, for consideration. 
The honourable member for Newcastle questioned whether or not, if there were a change of wind before take-off, the pilot of an aircraft would be notified. This, of course, is a normal practice. If there is a change of wind before take-off this information is conveyed to the pilot at the time. There could, of course, be an occasion when after the operation of take-off had commenced a wind change could occur, but up to the last practical moment such information is conveyed to the pilot concerned. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  referred to the question of subsidy for commuter airlines. I can only draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that a subsidy is being paid to certain commuter operators, as was announced in the Parliament some time  ago,whentheytakeoverroutesfromair-  line operators. In other cases, although consideration has been given to the special circumstances that have been outlined by the honourable member, it has not been found possible to meet the request up to the present time. In view of the fact that the honourable member has raised this matter again I will see that it is conveyed to my colleague in another place for his attention. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  referred to a number of matters relating to noise. They referred also to the development of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. I think they both queried the provision of parallel runways and suggested that this was something new which had been only just thought of in relation to future development. This is rather strange because the whole of the development plan for Sydney Airport relates to the provision of parallel runways. I can recall some years ago calling Press conferences in Sydney at which were present representatives of the Press, television and radio. My honourable friends opposite would be well aware of the situation at the time. We did provide not only full details but diagrams of the future development. I can recall that these appeared in the Sydney Press and on television and were quoted over the radio on a number of occasions following the meetings at that time. So this is nothing new. It is basic to the future planning of Sydney Airport that parallel runways will be introduced. There never has been any change from the initial planning which took place about 7 or 8 years ago. That was fully understood by the people at the time, and it still applies. 
The question of noise is one that would take too long to deal with at present. This problem has been fully recognised by the Government. I can only repeat what has been said on several occasions in the past. Australia has taken the initiative in this field in the international sense in that we raised the matter first in ICAO and had an additional annexure made to the convention of ICAO dealing with this particular problem. Subsequent to that various meetings of the special committee of ICAO have been held and a number of resolutions have been passed already which have been of assistance to Australia in furthering noise prevention methods and of assistance to other countries. Everything possible is being done in this particular field. An earnest of the intention of this Government and this Parliament is the fact that, as has been mentioned already in this Committee during this debate, a committee was established to examine the noise problem throughout Australia. A previous committee did submit an interim report, and an interim report already has been submitted by the present committee. When that committee's final report is received it will be examined very carefully by the Government in the light of circumstances at that particular time. 
The question of Perth Airport was referred to at length by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  I can only say to him that the facilities that have been provided there are of a very high standard. The question of the utilisation of the airport has been considered on quite  a  number of occasions and  a  careful study has been made of the various points he has mentioned. I will see that the points he has raised are examined again to see whether any further action can be taken in relation to the question of noise abatement. I conclude by expressing a note of disappointment that in this debate there was a lack of reference to the splendid work that is being carried out by the officers of the Department of Civil Aviation and by the aviation industry generally in Australia today. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The question is to be discussed at the 25th session of the United Nations General Assembly, which commenced on 15th September. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) States are not required to define, in terms either of 'accepting' or of 'disputing', their attitude towards legislation such as the recent Canadian Act to which the honourable member's question relates. The Act does not explicitly refer to any of the areas mentioned by the honourable member, or indeed any specific areas. My understanding is that 'fishing zones of Canada' have not yet been proclaimed for the purpose of the Act. 
The United States and some other maritime states however have expressed opposition to Canada's action in legislating unilaterally in such a way as might deprive other states of what they assert to be their established fishing rights under international law. The United Stales has urged that change in the existing law should be sought by way of either bilateral or multilateral negotiations. It is reported that Canada and the Soviet Union are to engage in negotiations later this month in relation to Soviet fishing operations in the high seas adjacent to the west coast of Canada. 
The fishing rights to which Australia is. or may be, entitled in the Gulf of Carpenteria have received close attention from the Government since the establishment by the Fisheries Act 1967 of an exclusive 12 milesfishing zone around the coast. The honourable member will be aware that since 1968 there has been no foreign fishing in the Gulf, other than in pursuance of joint ventures undertaken with Australian approval. The Government will continue to give consideration to the matter, particularly in the light of developments in the direction of a further international conference on the law of the sea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is the latest information from the United Nations Secretariat concerning contributions made in 1970 to the United Nations Educational and Training Programme for Southern Africa: 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In May of this year, the mention of the Honourable, the Premier of South Australia was again drawn to the importance and significance of early adoption of legislation complementary to the Crimes (Aircraft) Act. In July, we were informed by the Premier that the introduction of such legislation had been approved -and that it would be available for the forthcoming session, subject to parliamentary time being available. 
Pre-school Children  (Question No. 1646) 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Approval has been given for the erection of  a  small terminal for use by passengers on charter aircraft that have long been operating at Adelaide Airport. There is no approval or request for the establishment of a maintenance centre. 
South Australian and Northern Territory Air Services (SAATAS) were given permission on 22nd May 1970 by my Department to erect a small passenger terminal. 
These are new facilities in that earlier passengers proceeded directly from their road transport to the aircraft. They are not facilities which have been transferred from some other airport. 
The Minister has informed me that he b kept in close touch with the pattern of noise complaints at each of our capital city airports, including Adelaide. 
and (6) The new light aircraft terminal will not add to noise nuisance. It is located on the new light aircraft apron and it is a condition for the use of this apron that prolonged engine testing will not be permitted without a properly constructed engine test cell. This new light aircraft parking area is closer to some houses but farther away from a comparable number of houses. 
The pattern of operations is not expected to alter and there will be no additional noise or annoyance to nearby residences. It follows that there is no cause to review the existing curfew or noise abatement arrangements. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
The basis of agreement between Governments of the Commonwealth and New South Wales for the construction and operation of a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay are as follows: 
Construction of the Station 
The Commonwealth will own the station and finance its construction. 
There will be joint participation by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Electricity Commission of New South Wales in matters relating to the design and construction of the station. 
Control and Operation of the Station 
There will be a Co-ordinating Board appointed by the Minister for National Development, consisting of a chairman nominated by the Commonwealth after consultation with the State, two representatives of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, and two representatives of the Electricity Commission of New South Wales nominated by the Minister for Local Government and Highways in New South Wales. 
The Co-ordinating Board will be responsible to the Minister for National Development for general administrative oversight in matters of a policy nature and will ensure: 
that the management of the station complies with the standards and procedures approved by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in relation to nuclear health and safety, the release of radioactivity into the environment, and such other matters as related to the safe operation of nuclear facilities at the station; 
that there is compliance with such controls as may be necessary to give effect to Commonwealth obligations including those arising from international safeguards and Australia's adherence to any international conventions or agreements on nuclear energy and 
that fuel management programmes, formulated jointly by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Electricity Commission of New South Wales in the interests of the operational requirements of the New South Wales system and of fuel economy, conform with the standards, procedures and controls referred to in (a) and (b) above. 
There will be a Chief Executive Officer who will be an officer of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission with executive duties in respect of all matters which are the responsibility of the Board. 
The Electricity Commission of New South Wales will be responsible for operation and maintenance of the station as an integral part of the New South Wales power system, subject however to the standards, procedures and controls laid down by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the 
Co-ordinating Board in respect of matters for which they are responsible. The Station Superintendent and staff will be provided by the Electricity Commission but all appointments of personnel normally subject to nuclear licensing requirements will be subject to the approval of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in respect of their qualifications and competence. 
Some months ago the Minister for Conservation in New South Wales and myself made a joint statement in relation to the work which was to commence on the Copeton dam and legislation was passed by this Parliament to approve a grant of $20m towards that project. Included in the Budget documents was an amount of approximately S3. 86m allocated for the provision of finance to assist the work by the Commonwealth for this year. Subsequent to that the New South Wales Government drew attention to the fact that it could during this year utilise a greater amount from our resources to continue the work at the maximum rate. My attention was drawn to this by the honourable member for Gwydir and also by several other honourable members. Later the Minister in New South Wales contacted me but in the meantime the amount of $3 .86m had been decided between the Commonwealth Treasurer and the New South Wales Treasurer as the appropriate amount for this year. However, after further investigations the 2 Treasurers decided that the Commonwealth would this year increase the amount to a maximum of $5.75m, which would be the maximum amount that could be spent by the Commonwealth on the project this year, and subsequently this would be increased by money made available by New South Wales. The $5.75m equalled about half of the total that had been spent up to date, including the appropriation for this year. That is the position at the present time. The full request by New South Wales has been met. as was proposed by the honourable member. 
No approach has been made directly to me on this matter, although I believe there has been some correspondence in other fields on some related matter. The only fund with which I have any association is the Water Resources Development Fund, the national fund which has been re-established, as announced by the Prime Minister at the end of last year. This deals solely with rural water supplies such as for irrigation purposes, dams, flood mitigation and anything associated with those activities. I will make some inquiries to see whether there has been any departmental correspondence in relation to this and I will let the honourable member know. 
I am afraid that J cannot give the direct answer to that question. But I certainly will check up to see whether iron and steel are on the list. J will say that there are only several countries of the world which maintain adherence to this strategic list, and Australia is one of them. We have maintained this position now for quite some years. There are other countries that do not subscribe to it but, as I say, Australia has played a very prominent part in maintaining this strategic list to ensure that materials that can be of a strategic nature are not exported to and used by mainland China. 
However, as for the actual items on it, if the honourable member had asked me this question a few years ago when I had some closer association with it I could have quoted the whole list. I think that there are about 17 items of the major type and certainly a number of others but I will check up and I will make sure that the information is provided to the honourable member. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with the statutory  requirements 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr Davy on 17th December 1969, agreed to present to the symposium a paper entitled 'Ecological Factors in the Siting, Design and Operation of a Nuclear Power Station at Jervis Bay. On 30th December as a result of a decision by the Director of the Research Establishment  Mr Davy  amended the title by omitting the words 'at Jervis Bay' and stated the paper was to be prepared jointly by Messrs Davy, Charash and Giles. The reason for the Director's decision was that meaningful discussion of the investigations at Jervis Bay could not take place until all investigations were completed and the reactor type chosen. This decision was confirmed by the Commission at its regular meeting on 9th February 1970, when it authorised the preparation of a paper dealing with the factors that must be considered in an environmental survey of a reactor site, and how these factors are resolved by research. 
The authors withdrew the paper in mid March some six weeks before the Symposium because they doubted that they had time to prepare a satisfactory text. On learning of the authors' actions the Acting Director of the Research Establishment contacted the Symposium organisers and offered to ensure that the authors gave priority to the preparation of the paper. Despite particular effort it was not possible to prepare the paper to the requisite technical standard in the time available and it was finally withdrawn from the Symposium on 24th April 1970. 
The only paper prepared and submitted for approval was entitled 'Ecological Factors in the Siting, Design and Operation of a Nuclear Power Station'. 
A draft was prepared but it was not of  a  requisite technical standard. In the time available it was not practicable to prepare a paper at the desired standard. The maintenance of technical standards is a concern of all members and staff of the Atomic Energy Commission. The paper has now been prepared in Its final form and  a  copy will be made available for the honourable member if he so desires. The paper will be submitted to the Ecological Society for Australia for publication in the proceedings of the Sympoisum if they so desire. 
The ecological survey at Jervis Bay now proceeding will be made public in an appropriate way, when it reaches a stage of completion which would be satisfactory for this purpose. A date cannot be given as this depends upon the progress of the work. However, the Commission hopes it may be able to present this work to an appropriate forum during 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All nuclear power stations which operate on uranium fuel (whether natural or enriched) will produce plutonium. Certain isotopes of plutonium could be used for the manufacture of nucleat weapons. 
The Government has given no consideration to the manufacture of nuclear weapons. Its position in this regard is indicated by its signature of the Non Proliferation Treaty while announcing that it was seeking clarification and explanation on  a  number of aspects before considering ratification. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CANDU-type reactors use heavy water  for  both moderating and core cooling purposes whereas SGHWR type reactors use heavy  water  for moderating only. CANDU-type reactors therefore have  a  greater requirement for heavy water than  do  SGHWR reactors  of  the same output. The initial heavy water requirements for500 MW CANDU and SGHWR type nuclear stations  are  approximately 400 and 140 tons respectively. Irrecoverable heavy water losses amount  to a few  tons  a  year  for  the CANDU reactor  and are  negligible  for  the SGHWR. 
Initially Australia will not manufacture its own heavy water. 
If a decision is taken to install a reactor type which required heavy water the provision of the requirement of heavy water would be the responsibility of the supplier of the nuclear steam supply system. The matter of whether Australia would need to manufacture heavy water will not require consideration until later. 
Nuclear power (Question No. 1290) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Several countries, iri particular the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands, believe that centrifuge enrichment plants will prove competitive with enrichment plants based on the diffusion process. The three countries mentioned have entered into an agreement for the commercial development and exploitation of the centrifuge enrichment process. 
lt is unlikely that a certain figure is available at present as there is no commercial plant in operation. 
Representatives of the U.K. authorities have indicated that if Australia decided to use British enriched uranium reactors, arrangements might be made whereby the process could be operated in Australia at some future date. How far this would give Australia full access to British technology is not clear. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Over the past eleven years, a total expenditure of some $393 million has been incurred in the purchase of 215 aircraft from overseas sources by Qantas, Trans-Australia Airlines, Ansett Transport Industries, the Department of Civil Aviation and Commuter Airlines. 
The following table shows the number and cost of aircraft purchased by each organisation since 1959-60 to 1969-70. The purchases by Commuter Airlines date back to the commencement of commuter services, some three years ago. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
The report to which the honourable member refers is presumably the one by consultants to the River Murray Commission. As  President  of the River Murray Commission I have sent copies of this report to the Heads of the 4 Governments concerned - the Commonwealth and the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. If all 4 parties agree to its release, it will immediately be made available to organisations having a direct concern with this question, and to libraries so that members of the public can refer to it. 
The proposal to make the report available, subject to the concurrence of the 4 Governments, is based on the belief that the information it contained would be of widespread interest. 
 I have noted the information which the honourable member has provided. I will check to see whether it is accurate and provide him with an answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As I explained recently inthe Housetwo main considerations affected the choice of the site. The first of these was its physical characteristics and secondly the ability of a State electricity system to accept the size of the station which was considered appropriate. A 500 MW unit was chosen as the costs of electricity from a nuclear plant: decrease rapidly with size; New South Wales was the only system which could conveniently accept this size. 
Seven sites within the New South Wales system were considered; namely: 
New South Wales - Jervis Bay North, Bass Point, Hawkesbury River - Spencer, SnowyMountains area - Jindabyne Reservoir. 
The honourable member will be pleased to know that this is a matter that has received very careful attention over recent months. Indeed, we have been in close consultation with the principal States concerned in relation to the matter. As the honourable member also knows, the Joint Coal Board is an instrument of both the Commonwealth and the Government of New South Wales and has a certain responsibility in relation to the operation of the coal industry in that State. He may not have noticed, although it was stated publicly by the Minister for Mines for New South Wales, that certain action has already been taken by that State after having had discussions with the Commonwealth and also with the Joint Coal Board in relation to their reserve situation, particularly as far as coking coal is concerned but also in relation to steaming coal. What they have done there is place a type of embargo on certain areas, which have been reserved for steel and energy production purposes. This has been stated as policy by th: Minister on behalf of the New South Wales Government and, of course, has the complete support of the Commonwealth. 
At. the present time, through the Bureau of Mineral Resources, we are obtaining, as far as we possibly can, full details of our reserves of all types of coal in Australia. This is being done with a view to further discussions with the States along these lines. I assure the House that this matter is being very carefully watched. We know that throughout the world today there is a tremendously increasing demand for coking coal, particularly for steel making purposes, and that the supply of this type of coal in Europe and other countries is now declining. Countries such as Australia that have big reserves are feeling the effects of this increasing demand. At the same time, while watching the situation very carefully, we appreciate the tremendous marketing opportunities afforded to us for the future - opportunities of which full advantage is being taken by the principal States concerned. I assure the honourable member that that situation is being closely watched by the Commonwealth and State governments. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1920-1966, I present the 10th annual report of the administration and working of the Act and Regulations and on other matters concerning civil air navigation. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 31st March 1970 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Enrichment of uranium in the United States of America is performed in facilities owned by the United States Atomic Energy Commission and operated under contract to the Commission. The  President  has announced his desire that these (three) plants should be sold to private enterprise and has directed certain preparatory action to this end. The hew owners would work in competition, and would finance expansion and general operation on a normal commercial basis. 
Studies are being undertaken by the USAEC to review uranium enrichment costs. No information is available on how these costs or availability might be affected if private enterprise assumed the responsibility. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
Under Australian conditions, the costs of nuclear power derived from natural uranium and enriched uranium may not be very different. Actual figures must depend upon the evaluation of specific sites and of specific tenders called for such sites. 
Cost of power is, however, not the only consideration. Natural uranium power ' stations generally have higher capital costs than enriched fuel stations. This is offset by the fact that natural uranium fuel is cheaper than enriched uranium fuel, and this effect persists throughout the life of the station. Part of the extra cost of natural uranium stations is the cost of heavy water, in the cases where it is used. Supply of the initial heavy water charge would be the responsibility of the successful contractor. The heavy water is not consumed like fuel although some reactor types require some makeup of irrecoverable heavy water. We would not be in a position to manufacture heavy water in Australia for some years. 
Australia has adequate resources of natural uranium to sustain a nuclear power programme. The manufacture of natural uranium fuel could be carried out in Australia and this could constitute significant savings of foreign exhange. Manufacture of zircaloy fuel cladding could also be accomplished in Australia within a few years. 
Although Australia may one day be able to enrich its own uranium, that day is some way off and it is not yet certain what the cost of that operation would be. Purchase of enrichment services overseas would cost a considerable amount of foreign exchange, and would make the nuclear power industry dependent upon the ability and willingness of foreign powers, at present only one, but in the future perhaps two or three, not only to continue to supply, but to do so at an acceptable cost. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The submission by the South Australian Government on the Lock-Kimba water supply reticulation scheme is at present under consideration by the' Commonwealth Government. The honourable' member will appreciate that a large number of projects has been submitted by the States and a considerable amount of work is involved in property assessing their benefits to the nation. For this reason it is not possible at this stage to give any firm indication of when a decision might be made with'' this particular project. 
See . (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since taking up the position of full-time  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission,  Sir Philip  Baxter has made the following overseas visits: 15th September- 29th October 1969 
Austria, United Kingdom, United States of America and Canada: The visit to Austria was to attend 2 meetings of the Board of Governors and the Annual General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) at which  Sir Philip  was elected  Chairman  of the Board for the forthcoming year. Visits to the other countries were for discussions with atomic energy authorities on matters of interest to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. lst-16th December 1969 
Austria: To attend, as Chairman ofthe Board, 2 Meetings of the Board of Governors of the IAEA in Vienna. 11th February- 10th March 1970 
Austria and South Africa: To attend, as Chairman of the Board. 2 Meetings of the Board of Governors of the IAEA in Vienna. During return to Australia, brief technical discussions were held with the South African Atomic Energy Board. 27th March- 7th April 1970 
Austria: To attend, as Chairman of the Board, a Meeting of the Board of Governors of the IAEA. 4th-18th June 1970 
Austria: To attend, as Chairman of the Board, 2 Meetings of the Board of Governors of the IAEA. 4th September- 4th October 1970 
Japan: As a guest of the Japan Atomic Energy Commission for discussions on matters of mutual interest to that Commission and to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
Austria: To attend 2 Meetings of the Board of Governors of the IAEA and the IAEA General Conference. 
At the present time there are no plans for  Sir Philip  to go overseas again during the remainder of this year or in the early part of next year. 
A meeting has been arranged to be held in Sydney on Friday week. It is to be attended by the responsible Ministers of the Commonwealth and the States concerned. I am afraid I will have to wait until after that meeting before I can give the answer to the second part of the question. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Los Angeles at the present time. 
Bilateral Air Services Agreements normally perm.il an airline a free choice of points in its own country but stipulate the precise points that ii can serve in the territory of the other party and this applies to the Australia/USA Air Agreement. Currently, Qantas can exercise traffic rights at Honolulu, San Francisco and New York. An amendment to the Agreement to enable the Austalian airline to serve other points in the United Stales is not being contemplated at the present lime. 
Civil Aviation: AustraliaYugoslav Services  (Question No. 1453) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The feasibility of introducing a scheduled service catering for the regular travelling public between Australia and Yugoslavia has recently been studied by Qantas, lt was concluded that the amount of normal traffic with its origin and destination in Australia and Yugoslavia is not sufficient to commercially justify the introduction of a viable scheduled service on this route at the present time. 
The amount of traffic available between Australia and other countries, including Yugoslavia, is reviewed from time lo time by Qantas as part of the airline's continuing assessment of the need to develop further its services. 
In recent months, Qantas, and the Yugoslav airline JAT, have commenced operating charter flights out of Belgrade to provide for Yugoslav migrants travelling by air to Australia. 
JAT has also operated several affinity group chaner flights under the Commonwealth Government's chatter policy. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
All complaints received by my Department concerning .damage to buildings allegedly from the effects of overflying aircraft are investigated. In the absence of precise data on the strength of vibration, wake turbulence and engine exhaust velocity at the disturbances between aircraft and the buildings concerned it is difficult to establish the effect, if any, of the overflying aircraft on the buildings. In many cases, the cause of damage to buildings has been directly attributable to sources other than the overflying aircraft. 
On the initiative of my Department, the University of Sydney was requested to carry out a study on the strength and behaviour near the ground of wake turbulence left behind aircraft during take-off. Although this work produced useful data it simultaneously indicated the complexity in predicting with any accuracy the strength of the turbulence at any point in given circumstances. This has been confirmed by more extensive research conducted overseas on the subject. Although this work was motivated by consideration of safety for following aircraft, it does have application to the possible effect on structures on the ground. 
As aircraft increase in weight and size the effects of wake turbulence and possibly engine exhaust velocity could increase. Whether or not aircraft have been responsible for property damage in this country up to the present time or whether or not damage claims are likely to increase as aircraft increase in size, I believe that the mailer is quite important and that the Select Committee's recommendation should he pursued. 
The course of action that would appear to be appropriate from this point, I believe, is for the Department of Air and my Department to refer the matter of further research to an existing establishment, such as the Aeronautical Research Laboratories in the Department of Supply and I have already written to my colleague the Minister for Air in this regard. The honourable member will appreciate, 1 am sure, that my Department of Civil Aviation has neither the expertise nar the necessary equipment to undertake a study such as the Select Committee has in mind und, although 1 cannot speak for my colleague the Minister for Air. I would think that much the same situation would apply in his Department. 
In summary, what 1 have suggested to my colleague is that we make a joint approach to the Minister for Supply asking whether ARL could make a proper study of the possibility of damage to buildings, dwellings, etc., being caused by trailing vortices, vibration, sonic booms and the like. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Although not applicable in all Regions, my Department of Civil Aviation has, for some time, used a standard complaint pro-form a almost identical with that proposed by the Select Committee and I urn aware that much the same situation applies in the Department of Air. 
In any case, my Department has already taken action, in conjunction with the Department of Air. to ensure that, where appropriate, the Select Committee's suggested modifications ate incorporated with a view lo standardising the complaint pro-form;i used by both Departments. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Insofar as my Department  of  Civil Aviation is concerned, I can assure the honourable member that the spirit  of  the Select Committee's recommendation will be met in the future as it has in the past. As I have pointed out on numerous occasions my Department is extremely conscious of the aircraft noise problem in all its aspects and I believe it would be true to say that all of the items listed in paragraph 6.3.3 (a)  to (f) of  the Select Committee's Report have in fact been receiving my Department's 'continuing attention' for some considerable time. 
However, the recent establishment of a new Noise Abatement Branch in my Department's Central Office will enable it to pursue an even more active role in the investigation and evaluation of aircraft noise problems and to plan, develop and establish standards and procedures for aircraft noise abatement on a Commonwealth-wide basis, thus ensuring no relaxation of effort in the perpetuation of Recommendation 10. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (0 Yes. 
On the basis that the Select Committee envisages the term 'emergency' to include those occasions where use of the north-south runway is precluded because of operational reasons (which would, of course, include safety), I believe I can slate wilh every confidence that the Committee's recommendation is already being met by my Department and will continue to bc met in the future. 
My Department's air traffic controllers at Sydney (and elsewhere for that matter) have very explicit instructions in respect of adherence to noise abatement procedures and they do not permit operations other than over Botany Bay during the hours in question unless valid operational reasons such as strong crosswinds, low cloud base and/or visibility preclude such an arrangement. 
In summary, therefore, 1 believe I can assure the honourable member thai this recommendation is already being met in every respect. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Recommendation 12 deals with a most difficult aspect of the aircraft noise problem in that the Select Committee requests that the criteria authorising jet movements in curfew hours be applied more stringently to ensure the preservation of the original intention of the regulation. 
As the honourable member will be aware, there is a curfew imposed on jet aircraft operations at a number of our major capital city airports. From time to time approval is sought by the operators to either continue an off-schedule operation into the curfew hours or to conduct a special flight, some or all of which is to be carried out during such hours. in the case of off-schedule operations, either my Departmental officers or myself are faced with the problem of weighing the inconvenience caused to the residents living in the vicinity of the airports in question, versus the inconvenience caused, in the case of a single aircraft, to upwards of 100 airline passengers who, were they not able to continue to their ultimate destination, could be faced with the possibility of being stranded without the necessary items normally carried by the overnighting passenger - in many cases the situation is likely to be much more serious because of medical problems. Additionally, the companies would be placed in a very difficult position and the travelling public seriously inconvenienced if aircraft were not available for positioning at the appropriate departure points for the commencement of each day's operations because of enforced overnight stays at some intermediate point. 
In the case of the special flights, these require my specific approval and are very carefully considered from all aspects. Normally, they are granted during holiday periods such as Christmas, Easter and certain school vacation periods when the overall public need for seating availability is exceptionally high. The honourable member will appreciate that the airlines normally operate with a limited number of aircraft, most of which (particularly the jets) have a very high utilisation rate involving quite high load factors, i.e. compared with many overseas countries. It will be seen, therefore, that the most practical and economic way to meet the minimum public need during the peak periods mentioned is to permit a certain number of special flights to operate during the curfew hours - even then, many persons wanting to fly interstate are precluded from doing so because of the non-availability of aircraft seats. There are two alternatives to the current arrangement, neither of which I believe would be acceptable in the overall public interest The first, which would be completely unrealistic as well as grossly uneconomic, would be to have the companies equip themselves with sufficient aircraft to cater for the peak holiday period loadings outside curfew hours, a situation which would result in a considerable amount of excess capacity in what is recognised as a notoriously high capital cost industry. Higher fares doubtless would be only one of the penalties. The remaining alternative would be to ban special flights altogether, thus failing by a significant margin to serve the overall public interest during periods of high travel demand. 
In essence, therefore, the approval of special flights is a matter of judgment on my part, but  1  believe I can say with conviction that I approve of no more special Sights than are absolutely essential to meet the needs of the air travelling public as a whole, many of whom are still not able to travel when they wish during peak holiday periods as it is because of the particularly high demand for air travel. 
I can assure the honourable member that 1 shall continue to judge each special flight application in its merits as I have in the past and approval shall only be given for such flights in cases of genuine necessity. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Whilst appreciating the Select Committee's opinion that even a minor variation in the flight path of an aircraft may produce a marked relief for people living in noise-sensitive areas around airports, nevertheless there is a limit to the extent that my Department can or should go, having regard to safety, by way of requiring large, heavily-laden aircraft to manoeuvre close in to an airport. The flight path is very largely governed by the requirement to approach straight  in  from a distance of some 5-7 miles, or even more, especially when an ILS (instrument landing system) or other approach aid is used. Similarly, except in low density traffic conditions, departure tracks are governmed by separation requirements which do not permit a great deal of flexibility in the choice of such tracks. 
However, 1 should like the honourable member to be ' aware that my Departmental officers are continually re-appraising all aspects of aircraft operations in the vicinity of airports with a view to keeping aircraft noise levels to a minimum at all times and, in view of the Select Committee's specific recommendation, f have asked all concerned to pay particular attention to the express wishes of the Committee as set out in Recommendation 13. 
The Minister  for  Civil Aviation has provided the following answer  to  the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Generally, airspace is at a premium in most of our major terminal areas because of the conflicting requirements of civil and military airspace. However, in view of the prominence now given to the aircraft noise problems as a result of the Select Committee's activities, it may be possible to influence the military authorities, through the local Air Co-ordinating Sub-Committee, to accede to any future requests my Department may have for additional airspace, or for more flexibility in the use of shared airspace, if it is clear that such action would provide worthwhile improvement. 
I think it would be fair comment to say that, even in a busy and complex terminal area such as Sydney, my Department has an extremely good working arrangement with all military authorities, particularly since a special interdepartmental review of airspace within 100 miles of Sydney Airport was made in 1963. 
It would also be true to say, I believe, that any re-arrangement of the airspace in the Sydney terminal area would not see any significant alleviation of the aircraft noise problems. The current civil/military air traffic control working arrangements, particularly since the establishment of a RAAF Sector in the Sydney Area Approach Control Centre, leave little to be desired and civil traffic rarely is denied access to military airspace. This is not to say that matters would not be made easier from an air traffic control point of view in terms of greater flexibility where more airspace allocated for civil purpose., om, a.-, the main source of noise at Sydney (and al other airports, too, for that matter) is from aircraft either in the approach or departure phases within, say, 10 miles or so from the airport, I can envisage Huie or no noise alleviation resulting from the allocation of more airspace for civil purposes. 
In any event, the honourable member has my assurance that my Department of Civil Aviation will follow up the spirit of the recommendation wilh a view to effecting further alleviation of the aircraft noise problem whenever possible. 
Civil Aviation: Aircraft Noise  (Question No. 1S05) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
There are a number of significant operational, technical, and economical aspects to be considered in respect of this recommendation, but the honourable member has my assurance that, insofar as is practicable, the recommendation will be met. 1 have requested my Departmental officers to provide me wilh the details of what is involved and already an engineering study is under way to establish what is required to change the various glide slope angles, wilh particular emphasis on Sydney which I regard as being the airport with the most critical noise problem. Departmental engineers are preparing an estimate of the work programme and costs involved at Sydney, together with details on the periods during which the runways are likely to be out of action for instrument landings, i.e., advice on the effects on the operational usage of the instrument runways as a result of the possible necessity to alter existing threshold lighting, change glide slope aerials, etc. From the foregoing, the honourable member will appreciate that implementation of Recommendation 16 will be a lengthy procedure and priority will be given to the noise-critical locations, as appropriate. 
United  Nations Association of Australia  (Question No. 1553) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government provides an annual grant to the United Nations Association of Australia. An annual grant of $200 was made available from 1936 to 1945 to the Australian League of Nations Union. In 1945-46 a grant of $2,000 was made available to the United Nations Association, the successor organisation to the League of Nations Union. In 1948, the Australian National Committee of United Nations was formed, to include representatives of a number of voluntary organisations including the United Nations Association. The Australian National Committee of -United Nations and the United Nations Association continued to receive annual grants. In April 1950 a new body, the United Nations Association of Australia, was formed by the amalgamation of the United Nations Association and the Australian National Committee of United Nations. 
The annual Commonwealth grant to the United Nations Association of Australia has been as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question Ls as follows: 
The document has been in preparation and under consideration over 9 months. In that period there has been continuous preparation of the document jointly by me and officers of my Department. 
Australian Capital Territory: Freehold land  (Question No. 1810) 
Pursuant to section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1966 I present the Eighteenth Annual Report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30th June 1970 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report of those statements. An interim report of the Commission was presented to the House on 30th September 1970. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  raised a question relating to regional studies in irrigation, water supply and agriculture. He quite correctly said that a number of these studies have been undertaken throughout Australia over recent years. He listed a number of authorities which had been associated with these studies. I might add to them, of course, the Northern Division of my Department which is at present engaged in similar studies in the northern part of Australia in conjunction with State authorities and other Commonwealth departments. I will certainly examine the points that he has raised to see whether this system can be extended. I am not quite sure about the exact field he mentioned but I will look at the situation to see whether the system can be extended because I realise the importance of these regional studies to the future of agriculture. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  referred to the National Water Resources Development Fund and queried the programme, indicating that he was aware that certain works had already been approved under the programme, and asked about the position regarding future works. We have already received the first list from all States of the projects that they recommend on a priority basis and also, as the honourable member suggested, on a priority basis with alternatives. We have a standard procedure for examining these proposals on a cost benefit analysis as they come in. As 1 indicated earlier when one project was being approved by legislation, we will submit to the Parliament as much as possible in the way of information associated with the cost benefit analysis. 
He referred also to the question of reports on beef roads, brigalow proposals and other matters of that nature which come within the functions of the Department of National Development. It is right, and I agree with him, that matters of this nature should be analysed by the Parliament from time to time. This can be done during consideration of the estimates of the Department, during the Budget debate or by other forms of the House which are available. Up to the present a report by my Department has not been submitted to the Parliament for a number of reasons. Because of the construction of the Department this has not been done in the past, but I have been examining the matter and it is my intention in future, commencing next year, to see that a report is submitted to the 
Parliament in the same way as reports are presented from a number of departments. This will provide much information on a running report basis and will allow an analysis to be made at the time of the Estimates debate or during some other debate. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  in rather an unkind way referred to the Government's intention to establish the first nuclear power plant at Jervis Bay. He mentioned the cost of the reactor associated with the plant as being 15 times the cost of a particular type of aircraft. 
I stand corrected. But, of course, there is no project to the year 2000. So far only one project is being considered. I do not doubt, and I accept what the honourable member has in mind, that there will be other projects and I am pleased to see that he is sufficiently progressive to understand that there will be further developments in the nuclear field. He said also that it is the wrong time to go ahead with this particular programme. Of course, we have said that it is the right time and the statement T made in the House indicated the various reasons why. He indicated also that the Government had refused to sign the non-proliferation treaty. 
The honourable member used the word signed. We have signed the treaty but we have indicated that we have certain qualifications regarding ratification, as have most other countries. When our particualr reservations are met there is no doubt that it will come back for consideration for ratification. The honourable member stated in relation to the development of the fast breeder type of reactor in the United Kingdom that it would become available commercially in the late 1970s. I do not know where he obtained this information but the best technical information that we have is that the fast breeder type of reactor will not become available commercially in the United Kingdom or elsewhere until the 1990s so, of course, that must affect the approach to this question. It was interesting to note that most of the honourable member's speech was devoted to objections to this nuclear development, yet at the outset the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  although he did oppose certain aspects of the proposal which we have under consideration, indicated that the Opposition agreed with this programme of nuclear development in Australia. Again, there is a division within the Opposition. 
In his speech the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  referred to matters which concerned his State of Tasmania. I must compliment him. I do not do it grudgingly but wholeheartedly because I know of the work he has done in connection with the development of the wood chip industry in the northern part of Tasmania. Recently we indicated that there is a new development in this field that will be of great importance to Tasmania and all other States interested in this industry. It is pleasing to know that while I have been in touch with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition over many months discussing matters of confidence he has observed the discussions as confidential and this has been of assistance in enabling us to achieve the successful conclusion of the first major contract notwithstanding problems that arose some months ago. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  referred to the question of long term planning for the River Murray basin. I can assure him on behalf of the River Murray Commission that a lot of planning has been done already in this field and has been announced in the House. Long term planning concerns the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia as well as the Commonwealth, and they know full well the programme for future development and utilisation of the waters of the Murray. As I indicated yesterday there is a matter in relation to this which has to be discussed next week and we hope that we can have the situation regarding the Dartmouth Dam concluded as quickly as possible because the State that will gain most from it is South Australia. 
In adverting to the commencement of the debate on the estimates of my Department a week or so ago, I must refer to the old saying about the dead hand of Labor. We have seen, by the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang, another example of this resistance to progress. 1 was surprised at the honourable member's approach because I know he has a deep interest in this particular subject and his proposal to refer this matter at this stage to a select committee of the Parliament for consideration could have been done with only one thought in mind, namely, to defer the matter, knowing the time it takes for these matters to be considered, for another 2 to 3 years. The Government rejects the proposal. I am sure that the majority of people in Australia are proud of the vigorous and rapid growth that has been fostered by the policies of this Government over recent years. By comparison the policy of the Opposition appears to be one of stagnation and its action in relation to these estimates, when we are moving for the first time into the field of nuclear power, indicates again its particular approach. The whole of the Opposition approach to nuclear power seems to be on the basis that it is something entirely new in the world. lt is interesting to note the real situation. If we look at the position we find that to the end of 1969, outside of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics respecting which we have no complete records, there were 91 reactors with an overall installed capacity of 13,833 megawatts of electric power. During 1970 there are committed 15 new reactors in the United States of America, 1 in Taiwan and 1 in Italy, making a total of 17. In addition, before the end of 1970 it is expected that there wm be announced another 4 reactors in Germany and another 4 in the United Kingdom. I have mentioned previously that there are other projects in Japan. Consideration is being given to the installation of reactors in Switzerland, Spain and France at the same time. 
It is estimated that by 1975 there will be 283 reactors developing 128,000 megawatts in 21 countries. I think that is sufficient answer to indicate that this is an industry that is well established throughout the world. One of the main reasons why Australia is coming into this field a little later than some of the other developed countries is that we have had a sufficient supply of fossil fuels available for the generation of electric power. 
The honourable member for Lang did pose a number of questions relating to the amendment which he moved and he said, in explaining one reason why he wished to delay the project, that an examination should be made of the projected power demands in Australia. The answer is that these have been examined continuously by competent authorities in each State and are well known and the figures in relation to it have already been published as projections for the future. He said also that a study should be made of the effects of nuclear power on the environment. lt has been stated in the House many times that there will be no harmful effects on the environment arising out of the building of the reactor at Jervis Bay. Discharges of radio-active material from the reactor will be rigidly policed and will be kept at a level less than one-tenth of that acceptable to world authorities. The world authority to which we subscribe is the International Committee for Radiological Protection. The coolant water from the condensers is likely to be discharged into the ocean and the thermal effects in this particular region will be negligible. 
The honourable member for Lang also queried the outcome of the work that is being done elsewhere but he did not explain exactly the work to which he was referring. Was it in reference to fast breeder reactors? 
The position is, as I mentioned before, that fast breeder reactors will not be available commercially until about the 1990s or from that time on, and the reactor types from which a selection will be made for the Jervis Bay station are those which are being installed at the present in all the leading industrial countries in the world. This, of course, is in keeping with our approach to this matter, that we have the latest possible information and the latest type of reactors to consider for installation in the Jervis Bay plant. The honourable member for Lang also queried whether a number of other sites had been examined before the decision had been made in relation to Jervis Bay, I did give him the answer in relation to this indicating that a number of sites in New South Wales and in Commonwealth Territory had been considered. 
Well, the answer was provided and the information is now in the hands of the honourable member. I have promised to leave a few minutes of the time allowed for this debate to enable the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  to speak. I conclude my remarks by saying that despite the frustrating efforts of the Opposition to retard development in this new field this Government is determined to see that Australia will maintain a high rate of growth in all fields of national development. We have been fortunate in the various aspects of development that wc have seen over recent years and the policies and philosophies that have been adopted in the past will be continued in the future. 
The honourable member for Dawson did ask a question in relation to an examination of the Burdekin scheme. I mentioned some time ago that some work had been undertaken by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority at that time in conjunction with the Queensland Government as far as the Broken River area was concerned as part of the Burdekin scheme. At present further discussions are continuing on the initiative of the responsible department in Queensland. As soon as there is anything to report in relation to any further activity I will advise the honourable member. 
The last point I want to mention is the query which has been raised by several honourable members during this debate in relation to informing the public on nuclear developments. We heard several times during this debate a query as to the public relations programme on this new development. We have been in the field of nuclear research but this is the first move towards the production of electricity by the use of a nuclear reactor. An enormous public relations campaign has been undertaken and it will be expanded during the next few months and continued in the future. Typical of the activities was a public meeting called at Nowra on 19th August where a full and free discussion was held between the various local authority bodies, other representative bodies and the Atomic Energy Commission. Commissioners and members of the Commission give frequent talks and lectures to professional bodies, university groups, Rotary clubs and other service clubs and other similar public bodies. During last month alone 11 of these talks were given and scheduled for this month alone are about another half a dozen. The Commission has also set up a display caravan to try to convey information to the public. The caravan has toured a number of areas already and will continue to do so in the future. A large exhibition was held in the Sydney Town Hall in June and in Canberra in September 1969. Also, nearly 20 Press statements have been made. The Commission makes statements almost daily in relation to this matter. Special booklets have been prepared and a large number of questions have been put on the notice paper in both Houses of Parliament, many of which have been answered. As I have said, this public relations campaign will be continued and expanded in the future. A full statement in relation to the successful tenderer will be made, I hope, within a matter of the next month or so. The information will be made public as quickly as possible and an opportunity will be given to this House for honourable members to debate the matter. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Ansett Airlines of Papua-New Guinea applied last year for an international airline licence for a service connecting the Territory of Papua and New Guinea with Guam. This application was rejected. However, since the takeover by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd of Papuan Airlines Pty Ltd and STOL Commuters Pty Ltd, no application has been received from Ansett Airlines of Australia for an international airline licence. 
In the circumstances you postulate it ilk likely that Trans-Australia Airlines would be at a disadvantage as a domestic airline. This would occur because passengers on the international service, having origins or destinations requiring further travel by Australian domestic airlines, would tend to be booked on domestic flights by Ansett Airlines rather than by TAA. 
In the event of another Australian operator competing with Qantas on any international routes the effect on that Company would depend entirely on the circumstances in which such competition was permitted and it is impossible to answer such an hypothetical question more specifically without knowing those circumstances. 
Most of the air services agreements between Australia and other countries provide for the designation of more than one airline by each country for the operation of the agreed air services. Renegotiation of some existing agreements would be necessary, however, to permit operation a second Australian international airline to some overseas points. Renegotiation of the agreements themselves would not be necessary to provide for an increase in the number of overseas services operated by Australian airlines, although m some cases such increases in capacity offered would be subject to negotiation with the authorities of the countries concerned under the provisions of the relevant agreements. 
As the honourable member is aware, a committee of this House was established to investigate airport noise problems. An interim report has already been submitted by that committee. A*i interim report had been submitted by a previous committee of this Parliament which had been set up in the previous Parliament. I understand that when the final report is received by the Minister for Civil Aviation it will receive full consideration not only by the Minister but by the Department. Any recommendation which the Minister makes will be considered by the Government at that time. The question of alternative sites for the airport at Sydney is one which has been under consideration for some time, in the sense not of an alternative site but of an additional site that may be required principally for international operations in the future. 
An interdepartmental committee was set up nearly 2 years ago to investigate possible sites where an additional airport to service Sydney and surrounding districts could be provided in the future. I understand that the interdepartmental committee has concluded its investigations, and it is possible that a report will be submitted to the Minister in the near future. When the report is submitted to the Minister he undoubtedly will have it examined, and the matter will be brought before the Government at that time. The question in relation to an alternative to Sydney airport is one which had been considered when the committee was extablished. But it was explained at that time that the site at Mascot had been established for so long, so much had been spent there and it has become such an integral part of the transport system in the city, involving as it does the connection with other transport systems there, particularly shipping, road and rail, that it would not be possible to shift from that site and that it would continue to be used and it would reach its maximum, somewhere about the mid-1980s. An additional site would be required to supplement the facilities at that time. 
Subsequent to that, whatever the report is of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise of this House or the committee investigating the second site for an airport for Sydney, these points will be taken into consideration. Whether there is to be a mixture of international and domestic facilities at one or other of the airports, or whether there will be a concentration of international facilities at one or the other, are points which will be considered when these 2 reports of the committees are received. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The Air Navigation (Charges) Act imposes charges on the operators of aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airway facilities, meteorological services and search and rescue services maintained, operated or provided by the Commonwealth. This Bill is designed to amend the Act in a number of respects, but principally in relation to the level of the Australian air navigation charges to general aviation aircraft. 
There has been some comment regarding the level of the Australian air navigation charges and the proposal by the Government to increase them by 10 per cent as from 1st January 1971. It must be appreciated, however, that the annual operating costs of the Department of Civil Aviation continue to rise as new facilities and services are added and as wage and salary levels are increased. Although the expanding utilisation of civil aviation facilities results in corresponding growth in the revenues received from users, the gap between costs and revenues is still considerable, and the Government has a responsibility to sec what can be done to keep it within reasonable bounds. For this reason the Government reviews its charges each year, taking into account ail pertinent factors, including the economic situation of the users of facilities and the contribution which air services make to the national economy. In 1969-70 the total cost of operating and maintaining the departmental network of aerodromes and airway facilities, together with the meteorological services provided for civil aviation by the Department of the Interior, amounted to some S75m. On the other hand, the revenues of the department attributable to the use of these facilities were only $20m. 
The working group which I appointed when I was Minister for Civil Aviation has been studying civil aviation costs and revenues, and the first part of its report has been submitted to the present Minister. Included in this report are recommendations by the airlines, both domestic and international, regarding costs and revenues properly attributable to commercial aviation. The group's work is not yet completed but, in the meantime, it has been necessary to review the level of charges in the light of the existing policy on recovery of civil aviation costs. After careful consideration of all relevant aspects, it was concluded that a 10 per cent increase in charges was warranted and clause 4 of the Bill is included for that purpose. 
Clause 6 of the Bill inserts a revised Second Schedule in the Act. This schedule deals with the charges payable by the operators of domestic general aviation aircraft, that is to say, private, aerial work and charter aircraft. The provisions of the new schedule define more precisely than before how charges are to be adjusted when changes in the registration or use of an aircraft occur, and in this respect they are more favourable for the operator than those in the existing schedule. Charges payable in respect of general aviation aircraft are calculated on an annual basis. If the registration of an aircraft is cancelled or there is a change in ownership during the year for which charges have been paid, it is considered reasonable that a proportionate refund should be made. Apart from the general authority for refunds or remissions to be made at the discretion of the 
Minister, the Director-General or an authorised officer, there is no provision for such an adjustment of charges in the present schedule and, although the matter has been dealt with administratively in the past, the inclusion of specific provisions in the Act itself is considered to be desirable. Paragraphs 5 and 10(3) of the proposed new Second Schedule are relevant to this question. 
As things now stand, if an owner has paid an annual charge at the private aircraft rate, and he decides during the year to engage in aerial work or charter operations, his annual charge is increased to the higher rate applicable to those operations for the whole year. The proposed new provisions in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the schedule confine the increase to the period during which the aircraft engages in aerial work or charter operations, subject to a minimum period of four weeks. Similarly, the existing schedule does not authorise any refund if an owner, having paid an annual charge for this aircraft at the aerial work or charter rate decides during the year to confine the operation of the aircraft to a category for which a lower charge would be payable - for example, private operations. The Government proposes that an appropriate reduction in the charge be applicable in these cases, the conditions under which such a reduction would be granted being as set out in paragraph 11 of the schedule included in the Bill. The charges introduced by the new Second Schedule will probably result in a small loss of revenue, because they reduce the amount of the charge payable in certain circumstances. Undoubtedly, however, they are fairer to aircraft owners than the existing provisions in the Act, and the Government therefore considers they are justified. 
Paragraph 6 of the new schedule revises the provisions for adjustment of charges when a general aviation aircraft is used on regular public transport operations. The effect of the change is to ensure that, in cases of this nature, any refund of charges paid under the Second Schedule does not exceed the charges payable under the First Schedule in respect of the operation of the aircraft on regular public transport services. The existing provisions sometimes result in the owner of a charter aircraft paying less than the normal charge applicable to the aircraft when it is used periodically on commuter services, and this is not the intention of the Act. 
The Bill adds further routes to the Table of Flights on which charges payable by airline operators under the First Schedule to the Act are based, and it increases one of the factors in this Table. These amendments are necessary to cover new services or variations in route patterns, and to remove some anomalies. It is also proposed that a new sub-paragraph be added to the First Schedule to make it clear that a reference to a place in the Table of Flights refers to any airport in the vicinity of that place, this being desirable when there are two airports concerned - for example, Essendon and Tullamarine at Melbourne. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
I answered a question yesterday in relation to a report from an interdepartmental committee which had been set up by the Government to investigate sites for a second airport to service Sydney and district. I indicated at the time that my understanding was that the committee had concluded its work in relation to the survey it was undertaking and that a report could be expected to be submitted to the Minister for Civil Aviation in the near future. 
If he says be has received  it  I will stand corrected and accept that he has received  it.  I do not doubt that the matter will be examined by the Minister and his Department and that  it  will be referred to the Government as soon as the Minister is able to do so. The question regarding the development of the site at Mascot is, of course, one that has been part of an original programme that has been in hand for many years. I think it should be understood that it has always been envisaged that in the development of the site, parallel runways will be provided. Whether there will be any change in this plan in the future I do not know, but the original plan, which still stands, is that parallel runways will at some point in time be installed to cater not only for perhaps additional traffic, but also to facilitate control arrangements as far as that traffic is concerned. 
After an examination of the reports of the various committees that have been set up to investigate these matters the Minister for Civil Aviation will be the person who will make some .recommendation in relation to any future planning for the development of the airport. But I should refer to the major development that is taking place there and. which is designed not only to improve the. operational efficiency but also very substantially to improve the noise problem; that is the extension of the main runway into Botany Bay. This will allow a very big increase in the number of nights that can use that runway. Its greater length will mean that a . far greater number of downwind landings and take-offs will be possible. This means, in effect, that a far greater proportion of traffic will be able to utilise the across-water approach and take-off. This will be a very substantial improvement when this work is completed. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer lo the honourable member's question: lt has not yet been possible to obtain uniform legislation in South Australia and Queensland on the subject of surface damage by aircraft. The question of legislation on the subject in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory is under consideration. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) In the three months period to 31st August 1970, Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia were scheduled to fly 32 and 22flights respectively direct from Melbourne to Perth. The following table shows details of these scheduled flights on (i) Thursday nights, (ii) Friday nights and (iii) Sunday nights for the months of June, July and August, 1970. There were 9 and 7 flights respectively that landed at Adelaide and those are shown in brackets in the table. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Records of actual aircraft movements have not, in the past, separated jet aircraft from other types. The figures shown in the following table cover pure jet aircraft only and have been obtained from a search of past airline timetables. They are therefore approximate. Non-scheduled movements, for which records are not available, would be expected to increase the totals by about 10 per cent. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Following the initial test firing of the incinerator in December 1968 modifications to the burner units were required to cater for the higher than anticipated moisture and free water content of the airport garbage. These modifications were progressively carried out during 1969 and the burner units are now satisfactory. 
At the same time it was also necessary to provide a separate source of water supply to the incinerator for the purpose of cleaning the outgoing gases. This resulted from a request from the Sydney Water Supply and Drainage Board that wherever possible their mains should not be used for industrial purposes. 
A pre-takeover inspection of the incinerator complex in June 1970 indicated that a substantial number of relatively small but important items required further attention before the complex could be put to full-time use and these matters are now in hand by the Department of Works. When these are completed the takeover will be implemented. 
It is not always appreciated that the range of material which is to. be disposed - from dry cardboard boxes to liquids - has presented an enormous problem to both aviation and health authorities. It is a problem which has been receiving universal attention. 
The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  raised a number of matters which are important to Western Australia. I shall see that they are. drawn to the attention of my colleague in another place, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  The points raised have some significance in relation to the development of aviation in that State where the growth rate in the general aviation field, which was referred to earlier by the honourable member, is far greater than that of any other State in Australia. Of course, this is understandable in view of the developments taking place there. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  raised a number of matters also. I just want to refer very briefly to 2 of them. He said that the extension to the main runway at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport was being provided solely for international operators. Whilst it is being brought up to the standard required to provide for the operations of Boeing 747 and also the supersonic aircraft, if they arc introduced in the future, at the same time it will be a great asset in domestic operations because it will allow a tremendously increased usage of the main runway. It will be utilised in alleviating the noise problem. Because of the number of additional flights and flight paths, it can be introduced to divert the domestic aircraft to this runway. So whilst it is being brought up to the standard of major world international airports, it will be used far more extensively for domestic operations and will certainly be a great advantage in that regard. 
lt was not for that purpose only, but the reference made earlier was that the extension was being carried out to bring the runway up to international standards. It is partly for international use but it will also be used extensively by the domestic operators in order to avoid the use of other runways and thereby avoid the noise problem to a greater extent than is possible at the present time. 
Yes, quite adequate, but it will be used far more extensively for downwind operations. This means that the number of services which can use it will be increased substantially. This is a very big advantage to the domestic operators. The second point that the honourable member raised concerned the allocation of civil aviation operating expenses between the various departments. When introducing this Bill I referred in my second reading speech to a working party which had been set up when I was Minister for Civil Aviation. Its purpose was to study civil aviation costs and revenues. At that time T indicated that the first part of the report had been submitted. This working group is also looking at the allocation of costs between the various departments and authorities concerned. 
Yes. it has submitted the first part of the report. Another part will be given to the Minister at a later date. 
But I can assure the honourable member that a tremendous amount of detailed work is involved in this. A lol of information has to be received from international operators in other countries and this has to be collated. As I say, the first part of the report has been submitted to the Minister but the second part is not yet in, but I understand it will not be too long before it is received. The honourable member for Kingsford Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred to the difference between the income earned by facilities operated by the Department of Civil Aviation and the total estimated expenditure in the Budget as a loss. I. suppose it could be classified as a loss in a way because it is not earning directly to make up the total expenditure. But, of course, the expenditure covers the operations and maintenance of the facilities as well as capital expenditure during the year, for minor works and for the full operations and maintenance of all aerodromes, which number about 680. Included in this figure are some under local ownership which are partly financed by the Commonwealth. So this is one of the prices we have to pay for the service being provided. 
We should never forget that when we make a comparison of this type wc should consider the facilities provided for other means of transport, such as port facilities for shipping and roads for road transport, and so on. When compared in that way, the costs which are not recovered are quite comparable with and are in fact comparably greater than those in many other fields of transport. But there is a policy of full recovery, which is an International Civil Aviation Organisation principle, which we apply here in Australia, although it is more of an ideal than something that is achievable. Yet the principle is there, and that is one reason why this 10 per cent increase has been applied again this year. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith spent some time also dealing with the facilities at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. It is a fact that I set up the interdepartmental committee referred to when I was Minister for Civil Aviation. It has a tremendous job to do as the honourable member surely realises. One of the reasons for an interdepartmental committee was to have an expert assessment at the outset. I understand that the report has now been submitted but a tremendous amount of technical evaluation in relation to the report still - has to be done because a variety of problems have to be covered. This is being done as quickly as possible, but I do not think that it would be within months of being produced as a document that can be considered by the Government. In other words, the final report to be submitted by the Department of Civil Aviation to the Government is many months away yet, but I can assure the honourable member that everything possible is being done to expedite this work. At the same time we must appreciate that this is something which is long term. This requirement is still many years away. This was taken into account when the Committee was established. The terms of reference which the Committee has, of course, fully cover this point, and I do not think there will be any problem as to time or any reservations when the report is ultimately received. 
Finally I refer quickly to the reference that was made to one of the east-west runways at Sydney being used for a Boeing 747 landing operation. Of course, this is quite right because the runways at Sydney, as at Tullamarine, have been brought up to the standard necessary for 747 operations. The runways have been strengthened and widened, and the fillets, the taxiways and so forth have been brought up to the full 747 standard. But for maximum all-up operational loads it will be necessary to increase the length of the runway to allow the operation of a 747 on the longest air route in the world, from Australia to areas in the Pacific. So to cope with maximum loading without any restrictions it will be necessary to increase runway length, but it is possible with restrictions for them to use the existing runways as they stand. The Opposition has indicated that it supports this measure, and I appreciate the comments that members of the Opposition have made in regard to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) Commonwealth financial assistance towards - the completion of the following projects has been approved under the National Water Resources Development Programme: 
I suppose the simple answer to the question is no, that I cannot provide the information at this point of time. But I would hate to let the answer rest on that. It is correct that there was a meeting on Friday of representatives of the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia and that a number of proposals were brought to the meeting by the Minister from South Australia. Those proposals were considered and discussed at length. It is only today that ( have written to the Ministers concerned enclosing a copy of the notes relating to the meeting. When those notes are received by the States the Ministers will no doubt be discussing the matters with their governments. Two things emerged fairly clearly from this meeting. The first is that there is little change in the stand that South Australia had previously taken. I can say that wilh authority, although the Ministers had agreed not to make any statement on their return to their States and had agreed to a joint communique after the meeting, which was released. But I note that the Premier of South Australia has made some statements and that  Mr Corcoran  has also had statements attributed to him, although I repeat, it was agreed that statements would not be made. The position is that there is no apparent change in the position of South Australia, and this matter has now to be considered by that State in the light of the discussions last Friday. Emerging from the meeting there is a second point which, as I mentioned, is quite clear. There is agreement between the Commonwealth and the States on the future study of the resources of the River Murray. This includes the Chowilla project, the problem brought up by South Australia. It is to be included in the study of future development of the River Murray waters. This was agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States, as it was agreed to by the previous South Australian Government. This has been reaffirmed. 
One of the important things that emerged from this meeting,  Mr Speaker,  was the question of water quality. Nothing is more important to South Australia than water quality. We recently received the report on salinity. This report was requested by the River Murray Commission. It has now been studied by the Commission and it has been submitted to the Governments concerned. Emerging from the meeting was a request to the Commission to proceed with an urgenty study of the report so that recommendations can be made to the Commonwealth and to the 3 States concerned as to any amendments required to the existing agreement on the River Murray waters. I think this point is of vital importance to South Australia and no doubt the South Australian Government appreciates it. At the same time 1 point out quite clearly that it is South Australia that will gain most from the agreement signed by the previous government of that State, but not ratified by the South Australian Parliament, relating lo the construction of the Dartmouth dam. South Australia each year will gain about an additional 250,000 acre feet of water from the Dartmouth proposal and it is in its best interest to proceed with that project. I wrote today to the Ministers concerned with this matter and 1 expect to receive some correspondence from them shortly. No doubt the Prime Minister in the future will receive correspondence on the project from the Premier of South Australia. The advice at this point of time is that it is in the best interests of South Australia to proceed with the Dartmouth proposal. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Conditions set out in the tender document issued by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission provide that tenderers shall supply the initial charge of fuel and at the option of the Commission they may also be called upon to provide5 years' supply of fuel after the commencement of commercial operation of the station. In the case of SGHWR this would be the responsibility of the United Kingdom tenderer 
The British-German-Dutch centrifuge consortium has staled that if a British or German tender for an enriched uranium fuelled plant is chosen for the Jervis Bay project the consortium would make arrangements whereby Australian uranium might be enriched in Australian plants. This would further our objective of attaining selfsufficiency in nuclear fuel. I would add that Australia has also been engaged for some years in independent experimental work towards producing enriched uranium by the centrifuge process. 
Semi-government and Local Government Revenues and Debts (Question No. 1384) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes 
The proposal as submitted by the Western Australian Government doss contain a component for flood mitigation in the region. It is intended that additional water supplies be made available to existing farms which are at present subject to excessive restrictions, and that some water will be made available for land on the fringe of present irrigated areas. 
No. 
See (3). 
The estimated cost of the project as submitted by the Western Australian Government is $5.3m. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The Murray's Beach site is closest to the entrance to Jervis Bay and offers the most convenient and economic characteristics for discharging the coolant directto the ocean. 
The sites at Bristol Point and Scottish Inlet are close to the flight envelope of the airstrip at Jervis Bay. 
Geological survey work indicated that these two sites had some structural disadvantages when compared with that at Murray's Beach. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. 
Floodmitigation releases had been made since the end of July. Two days before the flood, releases were increased to the recognised and accepted flood level of 14 feet at Albury. As soon as it was confirmed, on the basis of rainfall reports, that a major flood would result, releases from Hume Reservoir were further increased. The highest rate of release was about 42,000 cubic feet per second, compared with the peak flood inflow of over 65,000 cubic feet per second. Thus by storing a significant part of the flood waters, the storage operation considerably reduced the magnitude of the flood at Albury, and in addition delayed its impact, thus giving more time for preparatory action to be taken. 
It is easy to be wise after the event, but it is clear that the storage was, within the overall policy of primary concern for irrigation, managed very effectively. To have absorbed the flood in Hume Reservoir without exceeding theriver channel capacity at Albury would have required an available flood storage of about 500,000 acre feet prior to the flood. If such a storage had been provided at this time of the year and subsequent rainfall had been well below normal irrigation supplies during the current and even the next irrigation seasons could have been prejudiced. 
The matter of water allocation is the responsibility of the States not the River Murray Commission. The River Murray Commission is concerned with the equitable distribution of water between the States, not the allocation of water within each State. I understand, however, that surplus water was made available from the Murray to both New South Wales and Victorian irrigators as required from the beginning of the current irrigation season in early August. 
No. 
As indicated above, Hume Reservoir was managed in a very efficient manner and the maximum practicable flood benefits were achieved within the limits dictated by the overriding irrigation requirements. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Western Australian Government has sought Commonwealth financial assistance during the last 12 months for the following water conservation and irrigation projects under the National Water Resources Development Programme: 
The Comprehensive Agricultural Areas Water Supply Scheme to cover cost escalation of works in progress. 
Upgrading of the old gold fields water supply branch mains. 
Key stock water dams outside the Comprehensive Water Supply Scheme boundaries (approximately ten dams). 
Dam on the Lefroy Brook in the Manjimup area. 
Dam on Thompson's Brook in the Preston Valley. 
Flood mitigation levees at Carnarvon. 
Dam on the Gascoyne River at Rocky Pool about 30 miles from Carnarvon. 
Dam on the Harvey River. 
The above list is in the order given in the Western Australian Submission but no mention was made of particular priorities. 
For the projects listed in (I) above, the estimated costs prepared by the Western Australian Government for each project are as follows: 
$4,568,000 
$1,500,000 
$1,000,000 
$4,850,000 
$400,000 
$450,000 
$7,000,000 
$5,500,000 
There is no indication of any particular proportion of the costs being sought from the Commonwealth. 
Because of the large number of projects with considerable detail which have been submitted to the Commonwealth for financial assistance under the Programme, it has not been possible to complete the examination and assessment of any of the Western Australian submissions. 
As indicated in (4) above, a large number of detailed submissions have been received from all States and it is not possible at this stage to give any indication of whether financial assistance will be granted or when an announcement is likely to be made. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth has agreed to provide two States with financial assistance for electricity production projects. 
In the first case, under the Tasmania Agreement (Hydro Electric Power Development) Act 1968 the Commonwealth is providing Tasmania with bridging financial assistance, subject to an overall limit of $47 million to assist in the acceleration of a five-year programme of electric power developments which include the Mersey/Forth scheme and the Middle Gordon project. The financial assistance is by way of interestbearing loans each repayable over a period of 8 years commencing not later than 15th December, 1975. 
In the second case, under the Gladstone Power Station Agreement Act 1970 the Commonwealth will provide financial assistance to Queensland by way of loans to help finance the construction of a thermal power station at Gladstone in Central Queensland. The amount to be provided by the Commonwealth for the project is proportionate to the total cost of the power station in the ratio of 80 to 155. The estimated total cost of the power station (together with local reticulation) at 1968 prices is SI 55 million and on this basis the estimated total amount of the Commonwealth's financial assistance is S80 million. This is the only instance where the Commonwealth has provided financial assistance for coal-burning plants. 
As well as these two cases where assistance has been granted for electricity production as such, mention should also be made of assistance provided by the Commonwealth to South Australia under the Natural Gas Pipeline (South Australia) Agreement Act 1967. This is in the natura of bridging financial assistance and is up to a maximum of $15 million to help finance the construction of a natural gas pipeline from GidgealpaMoomba to Adelaide. The financial assistance is by way of interest-bearing loans each repayable over a period of 8 years commencing 15th December, 1972. The relevance of this project to electricity generation lies in the fact that the principal initial market for the natural gas is the Torrens Island power station. 
No. 
Any such request would be considered on its merits. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Changes to the system of licensing of aircraft maintenance engineers are at present under consideration. The review which is being conducted follows an assessment of the application of the existing system to the newer and more complex aircraft which are coming into use in Australia. Modern practices, proposed and in some cases currently being used, by the large international and domestic operators overseas are being taken into account. 
No change is contemplated in the existing 5 categories of licence but consideration is being given to the introduction of an additional licence to be known as a Route Station category licence for maintenance personnel based at transit stations where scheduled maintenance is not normally performed on aircraft. This would have application to operators of large aircraft in regular public transport operations, lt is envisaged that the basic qualifications and specific type training required for the issue of the proposed new category licence would be of a standard compatible with the duties and responsibilities to be exercised by the holder of such a licence. 
In May 1970, the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers' Association and the Professional Radio Employees' Institute were notified by letter of the broad proposals for changes to the aircraft maintenance engineer licensing system. These 2 organisations were advised that the broad proposals were being translated into amended Air Navigation Orders, the drafts of which would be sent to them for their consideration and constructive comment. The draft Air Navigation Orders are still being prepared and will soon be available for circulation and comment. 
Industrial organisations other than the 2 already mentioned have been kept informed through the Secretary of the ACTU. 
The changes under consideration in the system of licensing of Aircraft Maintenance Engineers employed in major regular public transport airlines if subsequently implemented would not reduce the standards of training and examination " for the issue of the basic licence. Under the current system, aircraft or equipment type endorsements are given by the Department on the basis of the applicant having been trained and examined by the airline operator on a particular type of aircraft or equipment. The training and examination system is under Departmental surveillance. 
Under the new proposals, persons required to certify maintenance performed on major types of aircraft employed in regular public transport operations would still need to pass the Department's examinations for the issue of the basic qualification. The aircraft or equipment type endorsement currently entered in the licences by the Department would be replaced by an endorsement given by the operator. The training examination system used by the operator would continue to be under Departmental surveillance. It is neither intended nor expected that changes proposed in the method of licence endorsement would reduce the present high standard of licensed aircraft maintenance engineers. 
Poverty in Australia (Question No. 1935) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department has planned to install a modern VOR equipment at Derby to supplement the existing installation of a high powered nondirectional beacon (NDB). 
There are 44 scheduled international flights per week on the route between Alice Springs and Den Pasar. The flight time between these 2 points is normally in the vicinity of 3 hours during which time the non-directional beacon (NDB) at Derby provides assistance to the navigator and for updating the aircraft's self-contained navigation aids. 
The Department will carry out the installation of the VOR at Derby when more urgent installations have been completed. It is expected to be commissioned during 1972. 
The first part of my answer is no. I have not read the reference to the jackhammers. But I would remind the honourable member that this House set up a select committee to investigate the problem of aircraft noise. That committee already has submitted an interim report and has now concluded its work in relation to this matter. I would ask the honourable member to contain himself until the members of this House on that committee have had the opportunity to submit their advice to Parliament for consideration of what is a very important social problem and a matter that does concern so many people in the community. I know that the members of this committee have carried out their duties in a creditable way. I have no doubt that when the report of the committee is received it will be one that will be given the consideration that it deserves. 
The only other point that I would refer to is the question of the curfew applying to Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and the statement that the honourable member has made that this is broken frequently on the authority of the Minister for Civil Aviation. On a number of occasions both in this House and in the Senate indications have been given of the limited number of times when approval has been granted for flights outside the curfew hours. It has been stated quite clearly that approval is given in cases of emergency or in special circumstances during peak periods of the year. The matter is considered very carefully. Authority can be given only by the Minister personally. A very careful check is kept on this matter and flights outside the curfew hours are kept down to the absolute minimum. 
As I had indicated to the House previously, of the 9 tenders that had been received originally for the erection of the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay, 5 had been eliminated and a concentrated evaluation was being carried out on the remaining four. This work is still proceeding between our consultants, Bechtel, and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I have also indicated previously that we have accepted that the results of the evaluation in the form of a recommendation to the Government for a contract would be submitted about the end of the year or early in the new year. This work is of a very intense nature involving numerous studies, which means that groups of people from the tendering countries have to come here and go through the tenders very carefully with the Commission and the representatives of Bechtel. I expect that we would be in a position to consider a recommendation in the new year. After it has been submitted to me I will make a recommendation to the Government for consideration. I believe that this will be in about the first one or two months of 1971. 
by leave - In accordance with the arrangements my comments will be brief. I cannot let this opportunity pass without expressing thanks on behalf of my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  and the Government to the  Chairman  and members of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise and to the staff and advisors who have worked with it over such a long period of time. It has produced in what is a brief time a report which is obviously of a very high standard indeed. ( was very proud to be associated with the formation of the first committee. In formulating the terms of reference which were eventually adopted by this House the Government consulted the various members of Parliament who were interested in this matter. 
There was no suggestion at that time of an extension into the question of siting of -airports. That is a matter that has emerged from the considerations of the Committee. 
We should be proud that Australia was the first member nation of the International Civil Aviation Organisation to raise this matter on an official level , at the last General Assembly of ICAO and have it incorporated as an annexe to the convention, thus placing it on a level which this Committee has now recognised and which we considered should be recommended at that time. As Australia was the first in the international field in the recognition of airport noise and in setting a lead to other countries in ICAO at that time, we should also be proud that this is the first - I think I am right ' in saying this - report of a select committee of a parliament of this type. There have been other investigations arranged by parliaments themselves but none specifically by a. select committee so I think Australia is first again in this field and the report which we have obtained, as I say, is of a very high standard indeed and is a tribute to those who were associated with it. There were one or two matters that I think should be referred to very quickly because they have some relationship to the actual report and I think require some answering at this point of time. The  Chairman,  the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  gave a summary of the principal matters contained in the report in what was a very constructive speech indeed. I am sure we all appreciate the way he placed the matter before the House. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  referred to the need, which is outlined in the report, for cooperation between the Commonwealth departments concerned in this matter and the State and local authorities. 1 am sure we all agree that this is highly desirable. In fact, it is now a matter of urgency that this type of co-operation be extended in the future. Reference was made also to the curfew application at certain airports including Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and this was also taken up during this debate by several other speakers. My only comment is that to the best of my knowledge this curfew has been strictly applied, particularly since the interim report of the Select Committee was tabled in this Parlia ment. Any particular individual cases that may arise on which it is felt there is some problem should be taken up on an individual basis, but I have been assured that it has been strictly applied in accordance with the conditions which have been laid down. The honourable member for Newcastle made reference to the use of protective equipment. This, I understand, is a general condition laid down by the operators and, with the co-operation of the unions concerned, it is, I think, necessary to see that a type of education programme is introduced to ensure that there is an extension of the use of this type of equipment to which attention was drawn in the report. 
I did mention that the question of site selection for future airports was one matter that emerged during this debate and was not, of course, included in the terms of reference of the Committee. The terms of reference applied to noise at airports already established, but it is quite obvious that very careful consideration must be given to the points that have been raised by the Committee in the selection of any future sites, particularly of airports intended for major operations. No doubt the information that has been provided will be of extreme value when the report of the other interdepartmental committee on a second airport site for Sydney is being considered in the future. The honourable member for Kingsford Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised several matters but I will refer to only one. That was the question of an international standard being laid down for the area which is desirable for the establishment of an airport up to international standard. He referred to an area of 9,000 acres. To my knowledge there is no international standard applying in this particular field. There are international standards applying in other fields but not in this field. He referred also to the area of the new Melbourne Airport as being about 4,500 acres. In fact the area which was purchased and which is being utilised is 5,300 acres. 
However, the principal problems of noise are those adjacent to airports and are related to the actual flight paths themselves. The actual area of the airport has some relationship because of the internal problems of ground running and operations of that type, but the principal problem relating to airport noise is in the areas which are adjacent to it. This, quite rightly, has been pointed out by the Committee as being a matter of great significance for consideration. There were other very constructive comments made by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  and by other speakers, including the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  all of whom, of course, were members of this Committee, but 1 will refer to only one of the points raised by the honourable member for St George and that is the question of the provision of parallel runways at Sydney Airport. I would just refer to something I said in this House in a debate recently - it could have been during the debate on the estimates or during some other debate - in which I indicated that it had always been in the planning for the future development of Sydney Airport that there would be 2 sets of parallel runways. However, I did indicate that this is, of course, subject to review with the changing conditions and the points that have been raised in relation to this report will be taken into consideration. 
There is a point in time when the Mascot site will reach saturation point, and on the basis of parallel runways that was considered to be 1985 or somewhere about that time. If changes are made, of course, the time taken to reach saturation point will vary and there will also be a variation of the priority for consideration of an additional major site for an airport to service Sydney and districts. So these things are flexible. Variations have been made to the planning in the past and I can assure the honourable member that the points he has made will certainly be taken into consideration. I conclude by again expressing thanks from the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Government to the  Chairman  and members of the Committee and all those associated with it for a splendid effort. 
-I have agreed that my comments will be restricted to a few minutes, in view of the time factor. 
The amendment is not acceptable to the Government for a number of reasons that have been mentioned by the last speaker and also by previous speakers. I think the main thing is that there is a requirement that the training programme for Qantas pilots be commenced in August next year. If this work does not proceed as a matter of urgency it will not be possible to commence this programme for the Boeing 747s. This brings us to the question of planning. There has been criticism in the report and by a number of honourable members today in relation to forward planning by the Department of Civil Aviation for these training facilities. We must understand that the rapid growth and development of new types of aircraft in both the civil and military fields makes it very difficult to keep up with the training requirements as well as the normal airport requirements. 
The evaluation of training requirements at Avalon airport went on for some considerable time. It was not until the evaluation had been completed, in consultation with the authorities and the aircraft manufacturers, that the final decision was made, just a short time before the submission was made to this Parliament. It is regretted that the Public Works Committee had short notice on this occasion, but this was unavoidable under the circumstances. A number of matters were raised in relation to noise problem and operational problems at Avalon. It must be taken into consideration that, despite the fact that in this area there are pockets of population at Little River and Lara and there is the grammar school in the district, as has been referred to, Avalon is still in a rural area. From one point of view this presents certain advantages. 
These matters were studied very carefully at considerable length by the Department before the final decision was made to proceed with the additional work in this locality. In addition to this it is a fact that cannot be denied that industry is expanding from Geelong into this region, which means that aircraft movement problems will become less obvious as this industrial expansion takes place. In addition to this, noise levels - except for 5 close low-level, special training circuits each week - are not high by normal comparisons as far as airports are concerned. They can be further reduced with further adjustments to and the monitoring of the training circuits. This will be undertaken to see that the best possible arrangements are made to overcome this problem. Also I think we should remember that even without civil flying training programmes there, the military testflights would cause about the same noise problem in the locality. So there would be no great advantage in shifting civil flying training from the locality as far as the noise problem is concerned. I merely draw attention to these facts but I also recognise that paragraphs 48 and 49 of the report recommend that some steps of an immediate nature be taken by the Government to plan for a facility for commercial jet pilot training in some other locality.I will see that this is referred to my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in another place and I can give an assurance to the House that the Minister will study the recommendation that has been made. But, as I said at the outset for a variety of reasons the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the meeting of the Council held in Darwin on 7th September 1969 on which the honourable member has already been advised, the Australian Water Resources Council has met on 24th July 1970, in Sydney. 
As was advised the honourable member in reply to a similar question last year, the Australian Water Resources Council is an advisory and consultative body of Commonwealth and State Ministers and public pronouncements are not necessarily made on all matters that have been discussed. 
Following the 11th meeting of the Council in Sydney, a Press statement was issued on behalf of the Council by the Acting  Chairman,  as on this occasion I was unable to be present because of Cabinet meetings, and this statement indicates the important matters discussed. A copy of this Press statement is being made available to the honourable member. 
I was very interested in the detailed answer which was given by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The only problem is to put a question to it. However, I will obtain a copy of the joint statement to which he refers and see that it is provided to him. That indicates the limit of the information that can be provided. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959- 1969, I present the eleventh annual statement on the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ended 30 June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1966, I present the twenty-fifth annual report of the Australian National Airlines 
Commission for the year ended 30 June 1970 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) The information required is contained in the following table: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) The information required is contained in the following table; 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume that the honourable member wishes me to make available only statements which are not in Hansard. 
A review has been made of all News Releases issued in the last 3 years; 73 of these were found to have some relevance to the exploration for, the supply of, or the demand for various energy sources in Australia. 
Copies of the News Releases have been made available to the honourable member. 
Housing: Ex-servicemen  (Question No. 1414) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Details of licence applications made by TransAustralia Airlines since 26th September 1969 and the results of the applications are as follows: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Passport and other checks by Qantas officers are necessarily made when carriage is requested on Qantas by a passenger proceeding to a country which imposes responsibility on the air carrier for examining the authenticity of the documentation carried by that passenger. Qantas' conditions of carriage provide that a passenger shall comply with all the passenger clearance requirements of the Governments of countries into and over which the airline flies and that a passenger must present for examination all exit, entry and other documents required by Governments. 
As Qantas does not maintain records by nationality of the number of passengers ticketted the number of Rhodesian passports presented to Qantas officers is unknown. However following adoption of U.N. Security Council Resolution 253 of 1968 action was taken by Qantas officers to comply with the terms of the resolution. 
As indicated in the answer to Question (1), Qantas refuses to cany passengers who cannot produce the documentation required by the Government of the country in which the passenger is intending to disembark. It is this criterion which determines whether Qantas will cany a passenger who produces a Rhodesian or any other passport. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (3) TAA flight 592 did not operate on 21st August due to a specially revised programme of flights to cater for the school holiday traffic. It operated on 28th August with 50 passengers from Sydney. Because flight 516 became unserviceable in Adelaide it was diverted into Adelaide to pick up passengers. It arrived in Perth 2 hours 7 minutes late. 
and (3) Ansett Airlines flight 220 did not fly direct to Perth from Sydney on 21st or 28th August. On both flights it was necessary, due to weather, to land at Adelaide en route to uplift fuel. Flight 220 arrived in Perth at 0138 hours on 22nd August and at 0025 hours on 29th August. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (3) TAA flight S16 was scheduled direct from Melbourne to Perth on 21st and 28th August but on each occasion was required to  land  at Adelaide for fuelling because of weather conditions. 
On 21st August the flight departed Melbourne 85 minutes late due to accumulated delays resulting mainly from a one hour mechanical delay in the morning. This, together with the fuelling stop in Adelaide, delayed the arrival in Perth by 2 hours and 27 minutes. 
On 28th August, flight 516 was unable to depart from Adelaide because of instrument trouble and an unserviceable trim brake. Some of the passengers were carried on flight 592 which arrived in Perth 2 hours 7 minutes late. The balance of passengers were carried on flight 522 which reached Perth at 1.20 a.m. 
and (3) Ansett Airlines flight 222 did not fly direct from Melbourne to Perth on either Mat or 28lh August. Calls were made at Adelaide for fuel because of weather conditions, Flight 222 arrived in Perth at 0127 hours on 22nd August and at 2359 hours on 28th August. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2), (3) and (4) It became apparent at about 5.30 p.m. on 21st August that Flight 516 would be delayed by approximately 1 hour. As Flight 508 was scheduled 2 hours 5 minutes earlier than Flight 516 and was fully booked, no benefit would have resulted from contracting passengers booked on Flight 516. In addition. Flight 522 to which Flight 508 waa a connection was also fully booked and both departed with full passenger loads. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Flight 516 was unable to depart Adelaide on 28th August because of instrument trouble and an unserviceable trim brake. 
Yes, all passengers from flight 516 were accommodated on either flight 522 or flight 592. 
and (4) Fifty-six passengers were transferred to flight 522, and 49 to flight 592. 
No. At the time when it became known that flight 516 was unserviceable there were approximately 50 passengers booked on the AdelaidePerth stage of flight 522. 
Flight 522 became fully booked at Adelaide when 56 passengers were re-booked on this flight from flight 516 which became unserviceable at Adelaide at about 9.30 p.m. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Flight 516 was delayed 85 minutes in Melbourne. 
and (3) The aircraft in question was subject to a delay of 63 minutes for mechanical reasons prior to operating flight 512 on the same day. This initial delay, with other minor delays during the day, resulted in the increased delay to 85 minutes. The aircraft was not deployed elsewhere at the expense of the Perth service. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Useful discussions have taken place between TAA and Ansett Airlines before any proposed major schedule changes. These major changes take place regularly throughout each year at the following times - April, July, October and November. The airlines are aware of the desirability, in the public interest, to spread timetables. They attempt to obtain the best spread of timetables consistent with the practicalities and economics of airline operations. 
There has been a progressive movement away from parallel timetables over the last few years. Especially on routes with low frequencies, every effort has been made to ensure a maximum spread of the services between the two operators. This spread has been sought during the day and over the days of the week. On high density routes, such as Melbourne to Sydney, the number of services has been high enough in itself to give a wide choice of times throughout the day to the traveller. Nevertheless further spreading is sought. 
Yes. This subject is one that is under continuous examination by the airlines, also between the Department of Civil Aviation and the airlines. This examination is directed towards the increased spreading of timetables wherever possible. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A Qantas B707, Flight QF641 departed Sydney Airport for Perth and South Africa at 12.48 a.m. towards the north using Runway 34. 
This aircraft was delayed beyond its original schedule of 10.45 p.m. due to a double engine change and a last minute electrical defect prior to leaving the hangar. When the delay became apparent Qantas sought and obtained a clearance from the Airport Director for a departure up to 11.59 p.m. Subsequently this was amended to 12.30 a.m. in the light of a further delay prior to positioning the aircraft at the terminal. The approvals were on the basis of the aircraft using the southern runway (16) for departure over Botany Bay. Doppler navigation requirements peculiar to the Wallaby Route prevented an aircraft substitution without incurring a further delay to the service. Had dispensation not been grunted the flight would have incurred approximately 7 hours additional delay through to Johannesberg and the return flight Johannesberg-Sydney would have incurred a similar delay. At 12.20 a.m. the wind changed to 325/10-12 knots necessitating a departure towards the north. 
and (4) There is no record of jet flights over the Annandale area in the curfew hours between 11 p.m. on 12th August and 6 a.m. on16th August 1970. There were 6 jet departures which used Runway 16 towards the south over Botany Bay and 2 jet arrivals that approached from the south over Botany Bay to land on Runway 34 as follows:  12th August - 11.20 p.m. departure, Qantas B707 
Flight QF177 scheduled doors close and taxy 11 p.m. 11.22 p.m. departure, Qantas B707 Flight QF641 scheduled doors close and taxy 10.45 p.m. 11.37 p.m. departure, Qantas B707 Flight QF272 scheduled doors close and taxy 1 1, p.m. 11.45 p.m. departure, BOAC VC10 Flight BA802. This aircraft had been delayed in Hong Kong on the inbound flight to Australia due to a radar malfunction and a crew rest, and its late departure from Sydney was approved by the Airport Director. Its normal schedule out of Sydney was 11.45 a.m.. 12 hours earlier. 14th August - 11.02 p.m. arrival Ansett B727 VH-RMR Flight 49 was a school holiday special approved by the Minister. 11.30 p.m. departure, Qantas B707 Flight QF272 normal schedule11 p.m. had arrived late from Melbourne. 11.59 p.m. arrival, Qantas B707 Flight QF879 had been delayed by industrial problems and its flight was approved by the Airport Director. 16th August - 2.21 a.m. departure TAA B727 Flight 1369 was a school holiday special approved by the Minister. 
The  Minister  for  Civil 
Aviation  has  provided  the  following answer  to the  honourable member's question: 
The development of Town Point as an airport had been kept under review from 1945 to 1969. 
Yes, in March 1969. 
Community noise problems. 
Tentative plans for parallel runways were brought to the notice of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works when it was considering the International Terminal Building project in 1965. They are mentioned in the Standing Committee's report to Parliament dated 21st September, 1965. 
, (6) and (7) Alternative proposals for parallel runways are currently under study and it is too early to finally determine their layout in relation to the existing runways, the time of their construction, and the cost 
The traffic at Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport is increasing and is expected to do so for a number of years. Special endeavours are made to keep the noise disturbance from aircraft operations in areas adjacent to the airport, including Botany and Randwick Municipalities, to a minimum. Some increase in noise occurs with increasing traffic. New types of aircraft will be required to comply with noise standards which will effectively reduce the noise these aircraft create, and this should gradually effect a reduction in noise disturbance in the longer term. 
Please see answer (4) above. 
No, but the appropriate Noise Exposure Forecast will be taken into account when considering the parallel runway project. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As has been previously indicated to the honourable member in answer to earlier questions in the House, the report of the inter-departmental committee will be referred to the Government. 
Following its consideration by the Government, 1 expect a statement will be made, but it is unlikely that the report will be tabled in the House or made public. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has also previously indicated that it is his intention to set up consultation with the State Government before a final choice of a site is made for a second airport for Sydney. 
* - The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Qantas Airways Limited: 
There have been three strikes in the past 5 years. 
(a) The first strike took place from midnight on 24th November 1966 to 21st December 1966, a duration of 28 days. The estimated loss of revenue was $l2.4ra. 
The' second strike occurred on 1 6th October 1969 and was for a period of 24 hours. The estimated loss of revenue was $154,000. 
The third strike occurred on 1st May 1970. The duration was (2 hours and the estimated loss in revenue was $5,000. 
(a) The strike in November-December 1966 which was called by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots arose out of claims for salary increases, the formulation of a comprehensive form of contract slating in full all the responsibilities and rights of pilots and the introduction of a formula pay system in line with that already agreed with the domestic airlines. Strike action was resorted to when the Federation of Air Pilots rejected an offer by Qantas of salary increases to pilots which was subject to the Federation agreeing to accept that the pilot crew of aircraft engaged on trans-Tasman operations should be reduced from three to two and for Federation members to conduct night landings into Djakarta. 
Under the terms of settlement, Qantas agreed to put into effect the salary increase offer which had been rejected shortly before the strike began, procedures were agreed to settle the operational issues and to deal with the negotiation of a comprehensive new contract covering the rights and responsibilities of Qantas pilots and it was further agreed that new channels of communication and liaison would be established between the Qantas management and its pilots. 
The strike by pilots in October 1969, concerned delays in discussions on a new pay contract which occurred because Qantas would not proceed with negotiations while a ban was being applied by pilots against working with so called instant captains. The stoppage was in the form of a protest. No concession was made by the company. 
The strike in May 1970 occurred over the following issues: 
The refusal of Qantas to take into account for superannuation purposes pay increases granted to pilots in February 1970 by the flight crew officers industrial tribunal. 
The wet leasing by Qantas of Boeing 707 aircraft from Caledonian Airways for migrant charter flights. 
In relation to (1) above it was finally determined that for the present, and pending an investigation by an interdepartmental committee, current salaries as defined in the Qantas staff superannuation plan be accepted for the purpose of employee/employer contributions, and also benefits including the guaranteed minimum benefit. 
Concerning (2) above, while no change was agreed in the wet leasing of aircraft from Caledonian Airways, Qantas undertook to give further serious consideration to the possibility of dry leasing aircraft to provide additional capacity if required in the future. 
Trans-Australia Airlines: 
There have been two strikes in the past 5 years. 
(a) The first strike involved 41 pilots employed on DC9 aircraft and took place from 1st March 1968 to 8th April 1968. The duration was 39 days and the estimated loss of revenue was $1.74m. 
The second strike involved all pilots and occurred on 11th and 12 December 1969. The duration was 27 hours and the estimated loss of revenue was $200,000. 
(a) The strike of March/ April 1968 concerned a claim by the pilots that the crew complement of DC9 aircraft operated by TAA should include a flight engineer in addition to the two pilots. This claim was rejected by TAA and the pilots returned to work without the claim having been granted, 
The strike in December 1969 occurred during negotiations on salaries and working conditions for pilots, which had commenced following the expiry of the Airline Pilots Agreement 1966, and the service upon domestic airlines of claims for a new award. 
With respect to the salary claims, the employers offered salary increases of 16 per cent plus two annual increments, each of 3 per cent. The final settlement was on the basis of a 19 per cent increase plus two annual increments, each of 3 per cent. 
Last year I kept the House informed of the progress in the calling of tenders and I indicated that possibly consideration of. the., tenders would be concluded by the end of' the last calendar year. However, due to the amount of work involved and some other matters that had arisen consequently, I advised the House before the end of last year that conclusion of the matter could not be anticipated until early this year. It has not yet been finalised but I would expect that by the end of this week I -would have the recommendation from the" Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I ask  that I have a few weeks to study this recommendation after it comes to me. It will be a fairly complicated matter. Subsequent to that I will be making a submission to the Government. At this point of . time I cannot inform the House of the results of the tenders but when the information is available regarding the letting of  the  contract I will make a full statement to the House. That statement, of course, can be debated if required. 
As yet 'we do not have full details of the results' of the agreement which we understand 'has been signed by the international oil companies and some of the oil producing and exporting countries, but we believe we will have full information concerning' this agreement soon. Of course, some other negotiations have to be conducted with- other oil producing and exporting countries before the matter can be cleared finally-.' However, in Australia at the  moment  we are producing approximately 50 per  cent of our own requirements. Within the- next 2 years that figure will be raised to approximately 70 per cent of our fuel requirements with the exception of some heavy fractioned components of petroleum. The petroleum which we find, principally in the Bass Strait area, consists mainly of light fractions and we will still be dependent on importations for the heavier ends, such as fuel oil, diesel fuel and.  .50.  on. The effect of the proposed change in the agreement will not be known until we have the opportunity to study fully the agreement with existing countries and other countries that have to consider the matter in the near future. As I have said, our buffer is the fact that Australia is producing a substantial quantity of its own requirements and the agreement will affect us perhaps less than it will affect some other countries. As soon as we have full details of the price agreed by all countries concerned, and the impact that this will have, I will provide the information to the honourable member. 
I am glad the honourable member raised this matter because it is quite important. I am sure he raised it in a constructive way. The position is that after the announcement had been made about Government policy relating to this station some time ago. arrangements were made to commence the site preparation and service work. As the honourable member will know, there was an allocation in the Budget for this year for certain expenditure for services and for site preparation. That work is under way at the moment. In accordance with the previous intention of the Government, tenders were called for the construction of a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. A team of consultants is assisting the Austraiian Atomic Energy Commission to examine those tenders. 
When that examination is completed a recommendation is to be made to me as to the type of station to be considered by the Government 1 indicated today that  I  expect to receive the recommendation from the Commission about the end of this week.  I  indicated also that it will take me some weeks before  I  can complete my studies of the matter Then it is a matter of Government policy as to when or how the work on the station is to commence, ft will be some weeks before the matter can  go  forward to the Government for consideration. The Prime Minister has announced the Government's policy in relation to this financial year. This matter would be included in considerations for the next financial year and it will have to vie with other matters submitted at that time, lt will then be considered in the light of Government policy. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Industry Act 1946-1966, 1 present the twenty-third annual report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30th June 1970 together with the AuditorGeneral's report on the accounts of the Board. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the question depends on the nature of the information contained in the contribution and the way in which the former employee obtained that information. 
If the contribution contained restricted information, as that phrase is defined in the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1966, which was obtained in the course of the former employee's employment or in any of the other circumstances sei out in section 48 of that Act, it would be an offence to make public that information. 
Again, under section 70 of the Crimes Act 1914-1960, a former officer would be guilty of an offence if, without authority, he communicated to the public information that came to his knowledge by virtue of his office and that, at the time, he ceased to be an officer, it was his duty not to disclose. Tn this connection,  it should be noted that section- 53 of the Atomic Energy Act makes it an offence for an employee- of the Commission to communicate information concerning activities of the Commission or the -contents of a document lo which he has had access by reason of being an employee. 
The reason for the restrictions is that many Commission employees have access to classified information of commercial or defence importance. The information could be acquired as a result of expensive research activities, in  Australia or from atomic energy activities overseas in countries wilh which we have agreements for sharing nuclear knowledge. Such agreement* could not normally be achieved unless both parties had made provision for secrecy. We could not contemplate absolving a person from .secrecy merely because he left Commission employment. However, section 5 (2.) of the Atomic Energy Act makes it clear that, for present purposes, the term 'restricted information' does not include information published in scientific or technical literature or in public statements made or authorised by or on behalf of the Commission or the Minister. Accordingly, persons are not prevented from discussing published information - on nuclear matters merely because they have, at one time, been Commission employees. 
International Conferences in 
Australia: Support by Commonwealth Government (Question No. 1379) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The details of the proceedings of interdepartmental committees are confidential and it is noi the policy of the Government to disclose the type of information sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As stated in the reply to Question No. 1191 and as amplified in iiic answer to Question No. 1561 the information referred to by the honourable member is included in reports which are al present confidential to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The answers to Questions 1191 and 1194 are both correct and are not inconsistent. Question 1191 which the honourable member in substance has repeated in Question 1560 asked if reports could bc made available on some six factors (2 of which were the environmental and ecological factors) in respect of each site considered for the proposed nuclear power station. The honourable member was told that the reports were confidential in the sense that they were internal to the joint considerations of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and Electricity Commission of New South Wales. The studies were merely to ascertain the various favourable and unfavourable factors of the sites initially considered. Several of the studies necessarily were little more than of a reconnaissance nature: the studies were not uniform in depth and were not designed for publication. They nevertheless showed the pre-eminence of the Jervis Bay site. 
Question No. 1194 asked if heated waste water from the proposed Jervis Bay station would be discharged imo the ocean and asked further if there was any danger from such a release. The honourable member was informed that a final decision had not been reached on the point of discharge and that a detailed examination of the environmental and ecological factors which might be affected was being carried out. This examination is still being carried out in considerable depth and will not be completed for some time. 
I would add that in relation to possible dangers from the release there will be a continuing monitoring after the nuclear power station has been completed so that any effect of the discharge on the environment will be kept under constant observation. 
Atomic Energy (Question 1562) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Early in 1969 the then Minister for National Development visited all States and sought information from the relevant Ministers on the plans, if any. that their States might have for introducing nuclear energy. The Western Australian Ministers went no further than foreshadowing a possible need at some future dale. The New South Wales Ministers however stated that they had an immediate interest in 'going nuclear' subject to the provision of finance and technical assistance by the Commonwealth. 
and (4) I have no knowledge of any recent announcement by the Stale Electricity Commission of Western Australia that it is now interested in the construction of a nuclear power station. 1 am therefore not in a position to comment on any such announcement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am unaware of any interest recently expressed by Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd in the installation of a nuclear power station in Western Australia although in recent years there has been considerable speculation in newspapers on the possibilities of establishing such a station. 
No. 
No. 
The  answer  to  the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
lt is understood that Clutha Development Ply Ltd has submitted proposals to the New South Wales Government for the building of an off-shore coal loading facility in the ColedaleScarborough area north of Wollongong. 
The company's proposals are understood to cover the construction of an off-shore loader rated at 4 lo 6.000 tons per hour initially geared to the export of 12 million tons of coal per annum. The proposed water depth of the loaders is to be in excess of 70 feet in order to handle vessels of upward of 200,000 tons deadweight. Estimated costs of the proposals are not known. 
I am not aware of any suggestion that Commonwealth funds be utilised in the company's project. The question of finance is currently a matter of negotiation between Clutna Development Pty Ltd and the New South Wales Government. 
Clutha Development Pty Ltd is owned by Wollclift Ply Ltd'. 
(a) Wollclift Pty Ltd is incorporated under the New South Wales Companies Act. 
Its coal mining and shipping operations in Australia are carried on through 19 subsidiary companies including Gutha Development Pty Ltd. 
A search at Registrar-General's Department discloses that paid up capital of Wollclift is $2m in 1.00,000 shares of $2 each. The major shareholder is Universe Tankships lnc, Bermuda. 
Coal Mines owned and operated by the group in New South Wales include: 
Wollondilly Wollondilly Extended Nattai Bulli Valley No. 1 Brimstone No. 1 Brimstone No. 2 Oakdale Foybrook 
Foybrook Open Cut 
Howick Open Cut 
Western Main 
Eastern Main 
South Clifton 
North Bulli No. 2 In addition the group owns Tongarra and Excelsior Collieries which are not operating at present. 
Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage  (Question No. 1783) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has neither signed nor ratified this Convention. So far only 4 countries have ratified it (Cuba, United Arab Republic, the Philippines and Argentina). Five ratifications are necessary to bring the Convention into force. 
The form of the legislative action has not yet been decided: currently it is being considered by a Commonwealth/States body known as the Consultative Committee on Nuclear Energy. (See also reply to Question No. 1786.) 
Drafting of Commonwealth legislation has not begun. 
This has not yet been determined. I might add that limits specified in the legislation of other countries differ widely because of differing assessments of possible damage from a nuclear accident. 
The Commission did raise the possibility of encountering difficulties with suppliers unless they were exempted from third party liabilities. The probable need for legislation and its form are being considered by the Consultative Committee on Nuclear Energy. If any required legislative action is not completed by the time a nuclear reactor is being installed a possible alternative would bc the completion of a formal agreement with the supplier so that he would be held harmless for third party liability for nuclear damage. 
The possible need for safeguards agreements lo facilitate supplies of nuclear materials is a separate issue which was also mentioned in the Report. Such agreements are designed to prevent the diversion of nuclear materials lo military purposes and are usually administered either by the supplying country or by the International Atomic Energy Agency by agreement between the supplying country and the receiving country. Australia has such an agreement with the United States and the Agency, but such agreements do not require legislation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Annual Report of the Atomic Energy Commission was tabled in Parliament on Thursday, 15th October 1970.  i Atomic Energy (Question No. I7HS) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 Details of the annual heavy water requirements of the CANDU and SGHWR reactors under consideration for construction at Jervis Bay are contained in confidential commercial tender documents and cannot be made public. lt is not possible to stale now the stage at which a local heavy water plant would be justified. Justification for constructing such a plant would depend upon Australia's future requirements for heavy water and the price and overseas availability of il at that time. 
The Glace Bay plant is not the only source of supply  of  heavy water  from  Canada - there is another plant operating at Port Hawkesbury, and the Bruce plant is expected on line by 1972. Heavy water reactors would not now be under consideration for Jervis Bay if economic sources of heavy water had nol first been established. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The licensing and regulatory control of nuclear installations is currently under study not only by various Commonwealth Departments and the Atomic Energy Commission but also by the joint Commonwealth/States Consultative Committee on Nuclear Energy! An important aspect of the problem is the question of what legislation may be necessary to establish effective and efficient licensing and regulatory arrangements throughout Australia. These are complex issues involving technological, legal and financial considerations and their elucidation will take some lime. It is not expected that legislation would be introduced in the immediate future. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (() and (2) The Commonweatlh Government has no plans at present for nuclear power station development other than those associated with the proposed Jervis Hay project. Power developments are primarily Stale matters but it is known that Stale Governments' plans in respect of future nuclear power development are by no means firm nl present. 
Current estimates of generating capacity to meet demands for electricity are given in the table below. For the reason given above however 1 would not like to estimate how much of ibis capacity will be supplied by nuclear units. As a result I am unable to speculate on behalf of the Government the demand by. each reactor type for fuel, heavy water etc. although, as observed by the honourable member, two A.A.E.C. officers gave their own views on thi* subject to a learned society in March 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The suggestion of locating .a combined nuclear power and water desalination plant in South Australia has been considered. The possibility was rejected, however, because considerable technical problems still remain to be solved before duplex' plants of the size necessary for economic operation become practicable. Such plants are not expected to be available for several decades. 
I have said that generation costs of the proposed Jervis Bay Nuclear Power station are expected to be higher than those of large new coal fired stations' situated on the New South Wales coal fields. 
I am unaware of any recommendation by the United Nations that the maximum sized stations for the initial unit in a nuclear power programme should bc . 300 MW. lt would bc surprising if that Organisation were to make a recommendation of this technical nature. 
Hud we adopted a smaller unit there would have been a saving of capital but production costs per unit of electricity would be higher. As a result we decided that a 500 MW or slightly larger tmi: was the optimum "size. In addition such a unit was an appropriate one for the New South Wales grid having regard to that Slate's demand pattern. 
Uranium  (Question No. 17X9) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, but an offer was made by the consortium to consider such arrangements if either the United Kingdom or Wes! Germany suppliers was the successful tenderer. Formal arrangements cannot be considered until the successful ' tender has been decided. 
The answer  to the honourable  member's question is as follows: 
The Ministers attending  the  conference on northern development in Brisbane on the 10th September 1970 were: 
The Minister for National. Development, the lion. R. W. Swartz The Minister for the Interior, the  Hon.  P. J. 
Nixon 
The Premier and Minister for Slate Development in ' Queensland; the  Hon.  J. BjelkePetersen, and 
The Minister for Industrial Development and the North-West in Western Australia, the  Hon.  C. W. Court. 
The purpose of the meeting was to review progress on northern development and to coordinate thinking across a  Wide  range of issues that affect northern Australia's development The Press statements issued before  and  after the meeting, copies of which have been made available lo the honourable member, indicate the range of topics covered. No specific requests or suggestions were made at the conference for legislative action. 
Commonwealth Grants Commission: South Australia (Question No.. 187.1)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When did the Commonwealth Grants Commission commence its inquiry into the application made by South Australia for a grant  ai  financial assistance. 
When did '.he Commission make its report on the application. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The economics of reactor fuel fabrication and proven uranium enrichment processes depend on a number of factors but in general the production costs decrease as the size of the plant increases. 
and (31 Great Britain. Germany and the Netherlands have been negotiating an agreement for a joint programme on fuel enrichment which, apart from the hope for favourable economics, will more importantly offer the advantage of combined technological development and scientific expertise. But this agreement has not yet been finalised, and I know of no other such joint projects on co-operative enrichment. There has been a co-operative effort on the pari of OECD countries in the high temperature gas-cooled reactor Dragon' in Britain and fuel fabrication is part of the co-operative effort, but the economics of it were not the basis for this co-operation. 
The Government has no plans for a cooperative programme in uranium enrichment and would not consider such a move until Australia's long-term future requirement for enriched uranium is known. 
Not necessarily. Naturally, this discovery and any future discoveries which increase Australia's proven reserves  of  uranium could lead to initiatives towards a co-operative enrichment programme lo meet local demand and for export purposes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government has not received and consequently has not discussed any oiler to collaborate wilh Japan in establishing a uranium enrichment organisation. 
No.' 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Such a proposal was raised informally by a previous South Australian Government but no current proposal is under consideration. 
No detailed studies of available sites have been made for South Australia. The siting of reactors involves many complex issues such as availability of cooling media, nearness to population and load centres and other considerations. When a definite proposal is made sites must be considered individually. However, it seems probable that physically suitable sites could bc found in the region. 
At the present time a nuclear power station would not bc economic in South Australia as electricity can be produced more cheaply from oil or natural gas. 
Although no benefit/cost analysis has been done by the Commonwealth a number of less detailed studies have been made on the proposal to interconnect Victoria and South Australia. Superficially such a scheme could have attractions because of the time differences between the States. The pooling of generating resources might reduce the total amount of generating plant required in each system either to meet peak demands or provide spare plant. 
It has been ascertained however that the economics of such interconnection are not attractive at present. Very long transmission lines would be required from Adelaide to Melbourne, and there would be virtually no intermediate load centres to be served. This position may change in the course of time. 
Commonwealth Public Service (.Question No. 1901) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) For commercial reason* information contained in the lender specification- is al the present time restricted lo the tenderers, the Electricity Commission of New South Wales, the Atomic Energy Commission and ils consultants. Bechtel Pacific Corporation. However all radioactive discharge from the Jervis Bay nuclear power station will he controlled to limits less than 1/10th of those specified as safe by the International Commission on Radiological Protection, the internationally recognised expert body on the matter. Those specified standards are accepted by the International Atomic Energy Agency. They are also accepted by the USAEC. The Slates of" Minnesota and Mar&gt;land. in the United States of America, have adopted limits which are approximately in the same order of magnitude as those specified for Jervis Bay. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 1 made the paper available lo members of this House on i 2 th June last year. 
The paper presents a general discussion of the current approach lo ecological considerations for the siting of nuclear power stations and does not contain da in relating specifically  .to.  the proposed site at Jervis Bay. 
As I have stated in the House on several occasions, when a final choice  of  the reactor for the Jervis Bay project has been  made  I will  make  a full statement to the House. The statement amongst other things will traverse the possible effects of the reactor on the ecology of the Jervis Bay area. In addition 1 should mention that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission intends to hold a public symposium in Sydney towalds the end of the financial year. The Commission will contribute papers lo the symposium on a number of aspects of the Jervis Bay project including those relating to the possible effect of the pow,er station on the ecology of the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Both Westinghouse and General Electric have stated that they have units available which reduce ;he emission of airborne radionuclides. 
The cost will depend on the size and type of station involved and exact cost .lata is not available al present. 
The feasibility of incorporating such units into the proposed Jervis Bay plant will depend to a large extent on the type of reactor chosen. However the availability of these units will certainly bc taken into consideration when a contract is being negotiated. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows:  
The construction of nuclear power stations subsequent to the Jervis Bay plant will be the responsibility of the individual States. The Government proposes to assist the Stales as far as possible in their forward planning. The introduction of fast breeder reactors will depend on the economics of such systems, their sizes relative to the capacity of State systems at the time and the availability and price of plutonium. For these reasons, it would not be prudent at this stage to commit Australia to a fixed approach to nuclear power. 
The only strategy which has been considered for Australia's nuclear development is to construct conventional converter reactors, of the type offered for the Jervis Bay Station. Such reactors will produce plutonium for use as fuel in fast breeder reactors if these, as expected, become available later this century. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A 250M.We prototype fast breeder reactor is scheduled on line at Dounreay in 19*74. Subsequently the extent to which fast breeder power stations will contribute to the overall power supply of the United Kingdom will depend on the success of this unit. 
No. It would be a mistake to delay the introduction of nuclear power to Australia. Fast breeder reactors have not yet been shown as commercially practicable and in any case depend for fuel of plutonium produced in converter reactors of the type being considered for Jervis Bay. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Within the Commonwealth Public Service my department provides policy advice as dinstinc from technical advice  on  nuclear matters principally in respect to its relationship with other sources 'of energy. In addition the Government is advised on some aspects of health and safety from the National Radiation Advisory Council (responsible to the Prime Ministers and the Commonwealth X-ray and Radium : Laboratory (responsible to the Minister for Health). 
Outside the Commonwealth' Public Service the views of the Stales on nuclear power development will be made available- from the newly formed Commonwealth-States Consultative Committee on Nuclear Energy. The Electricity Commissions of the larger States also have had officers attached to nuclear installations overseas and as a result these Commissions are in an informed position on nuclear matters. - . 
Finally the Commonwealth has access to the views of State Departments of Health universities, etc., on various aspects of nuclear development. 
So far as the Jervis Bay project is concerned it has already been repotted that the Government has engaged the services of the Bechtel Pacific Corporation, lt is not considered necessary however to engage, independent consultants to provide advice on the general question of the development of nuclear power in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Advisory Committee to the Australian Minerals Council is a Committee of the Heads of the departments whose Ministers are members of the Council,  lt  is not practice to release publicly information dealing with the. operation of this Committee. 
The following answers are, therefore, :n relation to the Australian Minerals Council: '  
The Australian Minerals Council has met on four occasions - 8th November 1968- Canberra 3rd March 1969- Canberra 26th September 1969- Canberra 9th June 1970- Adelaide Members of the Council, together with AttorneysGeneral of the Commonwealth and of the States, met in Melbourne on 26th March 1970, but not as the Australian Minerals Council. 
1 expect the Australian Minerals Council will meet in the first half of 1971.- 
and (4) As announced by the former Minister for National Development, the Honourable D. E. Fairbairn, in a press statement which he issued as  President  of the Australian Minerals Council on 3rd March 1969, following the meeting of the Council held on that day," the Council resolved to initiate a study of Australian' mineral legislation to establish the magnitude  of  the task of achieving parallel legislation, the problems involved and how these problems might be solved. The Minerals Council has not yet received a report on this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The place and date of the meetings of the River Murray Commission since October 1963, are set out below - 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The release of the final report on the' Murray Valley salinity investigations has been approved by the 4 governments which are party to the River Murray Waters Agreement, and the distribution is being handled by the' River Murray Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consideration was given to the construction of a dual purpose nuclear power/desalination plant at Bolsa Island, United States of America, but the project was abandoned because of poor economics, lt was estimated that the cost of water from the proposed plant would be in the range of 91c per 1,000 gallons for a 50 million gallons per day plant down to 56c per 1,000 gallons for a plant producing 150 million gallons per day. 
[ cannot confirm the figures stated by the honourable member but to my general knowledge I would say that they appear to be of the right order. 
No. There would appear little advantage in considering the installation of a duplex plant of the type proposed until the construction of such plants has been shown to be feasible by those countries with advanced nuclear power programmes. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The Atomic Energy Commission was established in 1953 to carry out the functions prescribed in the Atomic Energy Act. In brief these are: 
to promote the search for and mining and treatment of uranium in Australia, with power to buy and sell uranium on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
to develop the practical uses of atomic energy by carrying out and assisting research, constructing plant and equipment and employing and training staff. 
to collect and distribute information relating  to uranium and atomic energy. 
Neither the Act nor the Second Reading Speech associated with it contain the reasons suggested by the honourable member for the establishment of the Commission. 
Discoveries in Australia of oil and coal deposits since 1953 have certainly extended the guaranteed projected industrial energy supply - although 1 would not hazard a guess on the number of years of such an extension. 
Promises of nuclear power have in fact eventuated and nuclear power is at present making a major contribution to the energy needs of highly industrialised areas such as the United Stales, Europe and Japan. 
No. As has been stated on other occasions the Commonwealth'3 interest in nuclear matters and the proposed Jervis Bay project is based on the following reasons: 
To enable Commonwealth and State Departments and Authorities involved to gain experience in ordering, constructing, commissioning and operating a nuclear power station. 
To assist in establishing a nuclear industrial! potential in Australia by encouraging Australian industry to develop the new skills and techniques to the exacting standards required in nuclear installations; and 
To put us in a better position to adopt fast breeders rapidly when they become commercially available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
and (2) The actual cost of production of electricity from all Australian coal fired power stations is not available in any published form. The best information I can give the honourable member relates to the average selling prices per unit of electricity. These average selling prices to a great extent reflect variations in cost of production at power stations; in addition however they include costs of transmission and reticulation and the running costs of the electricity instrumentalities. As has been noted by the honourable member the average cost per unit of electricity to consumers has been remarkably stable as shown by the following table: 
1 believe that such stability of average selling prices in the face of rising general costs could not have been achieved except in circumstances where the responsible authorities were highly efficient. Without detracting from this statement however I think it necessary to point out three factors which tend to lower electricity charges. These factors are common to electricity systems undergoing major expansion in many other parts of the world. The factors are: 
economies of scale accrue from the use of larger generating units in respect of capital cost, efficiency and use of the heat content of fuel and operation and maintenance costs. The maximum size of the generator unit is related to the size of the system and therefore in a growing system costs should improve provided the expansion rate is sufficiently high to counteract inflation. 
Usage of electricity per consumer is increasing. However revenue tends _ to increase at a greater rate than expenditure as the cost of reticulation systems and overhead costs remain relatively stable despite a greater throughput of electricity. I might add that the statistics quoted above conceal the fact that most electricity tariff schedules have risen; but as a significant part of the total sales is made under tariffs which have a sliding scale according to the quantity used the average selling price does not increase as much as increases in the rales in the tariff schedules. 
Technological advances have been made in the design of plant and in high voltage transmission. The first has resulted in cheaper and/or more efficient plant additional to those benefits arising from increased size; the second has permitted the location of stations adjacent to coal fields and has reduced fuel costs. 
It is acknowledged that power production is primarily the responsibility of State Governments. In special circumstances however where major national interests are involved, such as the Snowy Scheme and the proposed Jervis Bay project, the entry of the Commonwealth into this field is warranted. 
The capital and interest components of the total cost of production of electricity from a nuclear plant depends on the type of reactor involved. In the case of natural uranium fuelled reactors the component could exceed 2/ 3 ids of the total cost. 
In the long term capital and interest costs move commensurate with other costs but in the short term labour .costs move much faster. Labour costs represent a fairly small component of generation costs in conventional stations and a smaller, component still in nuclear stations. 
Conventional power stations in Australia's Eastern States are very advantageously placed for fuel, water and proximity to load centres. Accordingly 1 think it will be some time before nuclear stations are competitive with conventional stations in this area. Such a competitive position however might well be reached in Australia before the endof the century. Nuclear power is already competitive in major industrial countries overseas which have passed through the stage of the favourable circumstances we at present enjoy. My reasons for this view are: 
as shown above the rapidly increasing size of our electricity systems will enable the size of generation unite to increase: cost reductions with increasing size occur far more rapidly in nuclear units than in conventional units. 
Conventional stations have been developing over a long period and the scope for further technological development is becoming limited: nuclear power is a relatively new field still possessing considerable room for further technological advances. 
Some increases in the costs of coal into generating stations may be expected as less advantageously placed deposits have to be resorted to. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is  as  follows: 
I am not aware that concern in Australia regarding water resources can be related to any particular date. Nor have I seen' any authoritative evidence to indicate that there will be a severe water shortage in the south-east of Australia within the next 30 years. There is no doubt that increasing care will be required in the management of our resources but this is not the same thing as facing a severe shortage. 
I would not think that any prediction of Australian population by the year 200J could be regarded as a fact, but the suggested figures seem reasonable. 
On the basis of present estimates of costs of water from nuclear desalination plants and from conventional sources, .there does not appear to be any economic justification for use of such plants in Australia for desalination put poses in the immediate future. 
There is little merit in the -proposal for Australia's first nuclear power station to be a prototype nuclear power/desalination complex. No desalination plants have yet been constructed anywhere, which would be of sufficient size to contribute to large-scale water needs. When desalination technology has developed overseas, the Government will Be anxious to ensure that advantage is taken in such technologies where appropriate. 
Overseas Investment in Australia  (Question No. 2203) 
.1 will see that this question is referred to my colleague in another place and I shall obtain a suitable answer for the honourable member 
It is a fact that an inter.departmental committee was set up about 2 years ago to investigate sites for an additional airport to service Sydney and the surrounding district. The committee has completed its report, which is now under examination by the Department of Civil Aviation and the Minister for Civil Aviation. The investigation of that- 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Records indicate that the following operations took place at Sydney airport between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. from 12th June to 7th August (57 days): 
80 jet aircraft 
236 turbo prop aircraft 
338 piston-engine aircraft. . 
Runway utilisation and therefore airspace sectors containing flight paths were as follows: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1). The numbers of indigenes and expatriates employed by the airlines in Papua and New 
Guinea and also the number of these employees housed by the airlines are as follows: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
From a traffic handling viewpoint alone it is desirable and is the normal practice that aircraft from northern' ports make a righthand base approach when using runway 35. Similarly, military aircraft on training make righthand circuits as the normal practice when this runway .is in use. Aircraft approaching ' from the south-west usually make a left base approach but in so doing intercept the runway centre line extension some distance from the airport, after having tracked south of the city. There are occasions, such as when helicopter training is in progress where variations to the foregoing are required in the interest of safe and efficient control of the traffic. Such variations are infrequent. 
Arrangements are being made for the noise abatement procedures for Canberra to be amended to specifically refer to the preferred righthand circuit for training operations in the' runway 35 direction and a right base for arrivals from northern ports whenever practicable. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation, has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. in October, 1970. I visited Albany, Esperance, Kalgoorlie and Bunbury. 
Yes. 
Yes. The main point made by the representatives of the local Council was that they considered adequate provision had been made for aviation in the area and that if the aviation industry wanted something additional then perhaps it should provide those additional facilities from its own resources. It was very much doubted whether there is a real need for a commuter type service in competition with the good road to Perth. Rather it was suggested that irregular charter flights on an 'as required' basis should suffice. 
Yes. 
Not necessarily. I was endeavouring  to  inform myself on the widest possible range of aviation matters within the very limited time available and, as you are probably aware, the visit to Bunbury was the last call towards the end of a quite extensive tour  of  Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia.. The actual timing  of  the visit to Bunbury was only confirmed with the Town  Clerk  the day immediately preceding the visit. In these circumstances, I wished to avoid causing anybody any inconvenience by having them make last minute adjustments to their own appointments or other general commitments. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: Televised Sporting Events (Question No.  2198)  "  Mr Luchetti  asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What amount was paid' by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to televise sporting events during 1969-70. 
What percentage of the total cost of programmes did this amount represent. 
What was the cost of the rights to televise each type of sport. 
lt is a fact that the early design work on the Dartmouth Dam was completed some time ago and that agreement had been reached between the governments concerned, that is, the Commonwealth Government and the Governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, to proce'ed wilh this work. Sub sequent to that, of course,  as  the House  is  well aware, whilst the agreement was ratified by the Commonwealth Parliament and the Parliaments of New South Wales and Victoria, it was not ratified by the Parliament of South Australia. That has held up this very important work. The delay is due solely to the action of the Government of South Australia. It is almost incredible that the State which has the most to gain from this work is still persisting with this action. We have had several discussions with the South Australian Government. We have been in negotiation with it about the Dartmouth Dam, and the situation at the moment is a complete stalemate because the Government of South Australia, particularly the Premier, will make no move to change the situation. I think this will have a disastrous effect on the future water supply of that State. 1 was having some discussions yesterday with representatives of the Victorian Government. Of course, Victoria is in a difficult situation. It has the work team ready to carry on with the work and is just awaiting South Australia's ratification of the agreement. This team is being held up without any other work to do, and it could create a difficult situation for Victoria if this work force is dispersed. 1. can only say once again that I hope the Government of South Australia, particularly the Premier, will show some common sense in relation to this matter and will ratify this agreement as quickly as possible. 
by leave - Following a review by the Commonwealth of policy relating to the export of uranium the then Minister for National Development on 10th April 1967, announced  a  new policy designed to stimulate explora tion for this mineral and at the same time ensure that Australia's future requirements of uranium would be met front domestic resources. While retaining a system of export controls the policy permitied limited exports from new discoveries in amounts which were related to the size and location of these deposits. In recent years the search for uranium has increased. Over 80 companies have been involved in exploration, and very gratifying results have been obtained. Discoveries by Queensland Mines, Peko-Wallsend-Electrolylic Zinc and Noranda in the Northern Territory have been announced by the companies.ExoilTransoil has announced discoveries in South Australia. None of these discoveries is as yet fully delineated, and complete investigation will take a considerable time. It is clear, however, that these reserves will put Australia amongst the leading uranium producers in the world, and it is not over-optimisticto expect that further discoveries will continue to be made. 
Uranium is not only a valuable mineral and the probable future source of much of the world's future industrial power, but it is also a material of strategic importance. The Government has decided, in common with the Governments of practically all other uranium exporting countries, to maintain a system of export control. For the present this will not involve any quantitative restriction upon exports. However, a close watch will be maintained on proven reserves and the amount exported, to ensure that adequate suppliesare retained for our future requirements. As with previous policy, all contracts for the export of uranium will be subjected to the approval of the Minister for National Development. This will ensure that the price negotiated for the sale of the uranium is satisfactory. Appropriate safeguards, to ensure that the materials exported are used for peaceful purposes only, will be mandatory. I present the following paper: 
Uranium Export Policy -  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is concerned with a grant which was announced on 15th June 1970 to be made under the new National Water Resources Development Programme. The Government has agreed to a request from the State of New South Wales for a grant under the Programme of up to S9m for assistance with flood mitigation works on 11 New South Wales coastal rivers. The new National Water Resources Development Programme was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in October 1969. Under the Programme the Commonwealth proposes to allocate to the States SI 00m over 5 years for rural water conservation and supply works, flood mitigation and water measurement, over and above the States' own programmes for these purposes. The new Programme follows the original National Water Programme which provided over S50m in grants to the States. Under a previous measure of assistance, which terminated at 30th June 1969, the Commonwealth Government provided assistance to the State of New South Wales of$8m towards the cost of flood mitigation works on 6 coastal rivers - Tweed, Richmond, Clarence, Macleay, Hunter and Shoalhaven - to be spent in conjunction with contributions by the State Government and local government authorities. 
The new programme involves additional works on the rivers included in the original programme but it has been expanded to include 5 further rivers - Bellinger, Hastings, Manning, Hawkesbury and Moruya - thus enabling completion of comprehensive flood mitigation works on the upper and lower reaches of all the major coastal rivers in the State. The financial assistance does not include maintenance of existing works, but is directed to the carrying out of new works, and will enable the local government authorities concerned to accelerate the completion of those works: The proposed works will provide a high degree of protection for areas subject to periodic minor and nuisance flooding, and will make an important contribution towards strengthening the rural economy of coastal areas of the State. Drainage works will enable flood damaged fields to return to production in the quickest possible time after major floods. In addition, flood damage to urban areas and to public installations such as roads, bridges and railways will be reduced. More detailed information on the schemes is contained in the explanatory memorandum distributed with the Bill. 
I turn now to the Bill itself, which has been designed to follow the general pattern of legislation for projects assisted under the National Water Programme, but also taking in features of the earlier legislation providing financial assistance to New South Wales for flood mitigation works. The local government authorities participating in the Scheme and the rivers on which it is proposed that the works be carried out are listed in clause 3 (i) which also defines other matters relevant to the operation of the Act. Commonwealth financial assistance towards the cost of the flood mitigation works is provided under clause 3 (i) of the Bill for a period of 7 years commencing on 1 July 1969. A fundamental feature of the arrangements is that the level of assistance to be provided to the local government authorities, who of course, are representative of the landowners and other people who are most intimately affected by floodings, will depend on the amounts provided by the authorities themselves from their own resources towards the cost of flood mitigation works. 
The State is to subsidise local authority expenditure at the rate of$3 for $1 in the case of the Hunter River and$2 for $1 in other cases. The Commonwealth assistance will match the State contribution. 
Honourable members will observe that the Bill does not contain provision for Commonwealth approval of the individual works to which the Commonwealth assistance is to be applied. The programme involves a large number of individual items including levee banks, river channel improvement and drainage works on11 river systems. The proposals put forward by the State are subject to some amendment in the light of final investigation and design. We regard the final selection of such individual works as a matter for the State and the local authorities concerned. The Bill does, however, contain provision for the Commonwealth to be kept suitably informed about the works and to be furnished with information relating to expenditure and progress on the works.I have much pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr  Patterson) adjourned. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Issue 4 of the Bar List of Trans-Australia Airlines includes only 6 brands of cigarettes. 
I am aware that the findings of the AntiCancer Council of Victoria show considerable variation of the tar content as between the various brands. 
The brands which are listed are those which experience has shown the airline to be in greatest demand. 
There is no obligation for an airline to publish the tar content of the various brands  of  the cigarettes it carries. If this information is to be made available the more appropriate place would seem to be on the cigarette packet itself. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Issue 4 of the Bar List of TAA includes 6 brands of cigarettes. 
and (3) None of these brands of cigarettes are manufactured by South African owned or controlled firms. 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has representation on the world agency which is responsible for the maintenance of safeguards throughout the world. Australia participates to some degree in the continuous worldwide research in these fields. I am not quite sure what the honourable gentleman has in mind, but if there are any specific points that he wishes cleared up or any reports that he would like to be provided to him regarding world safeguards J certainly will provide them to him. 
The honourable member was quite right when he referred in the latter part of his question to the benefits that would be gained from the construction of the Dartmouth Dam, and I can assure him that concern is being expressed by a number of people not only in Victoria but also in South Australia in relation to the delay in the commencement of this very important work. As 1 said yesterday, we have had discussions with the Government of South Australia. We have been in negotiation with its representatives on several occasions regarding this matter. The situation as it stands at the present time is completely in their court. I do not think that at the moment there is any further action we can take in relation to lt. The matter was clearly put before them at the last conference of all the governments concerned. It was then decided by the other governments that they would ask the South Australian Government to review the situation and to endeavour to do something about the ratification of the agreement. 
There has been some publicity from Victoria again today. The Victorians have been expressing great concern regarding this matter. I think the Premier of Victoria indicated that his State could not hold indefinitely the financial reserves which at present are being held for this work. The problem is becoming critical. This work is of vital importance to the whole Murray system. I am sure that even members of the Opposition here who have a vital interest in this matter would support a case to ensure that this important work is carried out. I know that they have expressed their support in perhaps a slightly different way in the past, but - 1 am sure that basically they agree that it is essential that this work  be  carried out and that it be carried out as soon as possible. So, once again we can only ask the Premier and Government of South Australia to do something as soon as possible about ratification of the agreement. 
 I am afraid that I have not yet seen the report to which the honourable member refers. However, I will arrange to get a copy of it and certainly will study the matters that have been raised. I would draw the attention of the House, however, to the fact that a number of coordinating bodies are operating already. These bodies co-ordinate representations of the Commonwealth and the State Governments in a number of fields. We have, for example, the Australian Minerals Council, the Australian Forestry Council, the Australian Water Resources Council and a number of other similar bodies. I am referring to bodies which specifically concern my Department. But. in other fields, we have bodies such as the Australian Agricultural Council, meetings of which are held regularly. Close association exists between the Commonwealth and States in so many different fields. 
Very careful consideration, 1 am sure, is given to matters where there is a sharing of joint responsibility. I personally know from experience the consideration that is given in this field by the Commonwealth. However, I certainly will study the report and, if I consider that any further action should be taken to refer these matters to the bodies that are in existence already or that consideration should be given to the establishment of further bodies, discussions on this matter will be held with the Prime Minister. 
I have had a study made of this position over recent months and, whilst it is not possible to give with any precision an indication of the escalation involved, it is quite obvious that there will be some. A study has revealed that the cost of earth and rock fill dams has been relatively stable over a period of about 10 years, due principally to the improvement in the type of equipment and plant that have been used in this kind of operation. However there is no doubt that over the last 12 months there has been a certain escalation. There is, of course, no contract price at the moment. We have been working on estimates only up to the present time, and there has not yet been a revised estimate. However, there is one other very important factor associated with this which could cause further delay if South Australia does not ratify the agreement, before long, and that is the undertaking that the Commonwealth has given to the States under the River Murray Waters Agreement that it will lend the States half the total amount of their share of the cost of the Dartmouth Dam. There is a clause in that Agreement to the effect that if the cost escalation is above 10 per cent a full review of the costs involved must be undertaken. Some considerable time would be taken in making such a review. That is another reason why we ask the Government of South Australia to deal with this matter urgently and to ratify the Agreement as quickly as possible. 
Just a few minutes before coming into the House I received a teleprinter message setting out the details of a statement attributed to the Premier of South Australia in this morning's Adelaide Advertiser'. I assume it is a little too lengthy to read out to the House. As I have not yet had the chance to study it very carefully I am not aware of the exact details. The surprising thing is that, from what 1 have seen, the Premier has stated that he has written letters to the Prime Minister and to the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria regarding the Dartmouth Dam and some action which he proposes in relation to it but before the letters have been received he has made this public statement. Of course, it is not possible to comment on what is contained in those letters. No doubt the Prime Minister, after he has received the letter and studied it, will discuss the matter with me. 
According to the statement so far attributed to the Premier of South Australia, his proposal is to introduce into the Parliament of South Australia some legislation which, if the statement is correct, is broadly based on the situation that existed before the last discussions between the Ministers concerned in Sydney. In other words, the deletion of 2 paragraphs from the agreement would bring the situation back to exactly what it was before the last discussions were held. However, until the letter has been received and there has been an opportunity to study the proposals in detail, it will not be possible to make any further comment. 
I could not indicate exactly what the Premier of Victoria was supposed to have stated in relation to this matter but his statement. I am sure, would had been born out of frustration at the delay that has been caused to this very difficult and important situation, principally by the Premier  of  South Australia. As I have indicated twice in the last week in this House, the previous estimates will have to  be  reviewed when ultimately the 
Parliament of South Australia does ratify the agreement.  1  indicated a couple of days ago that in view of the fact that the Commonwealth has' by agreement undertaken to provide by way of loan half of the amount to be paid by the States as their shares of the costs, if there is an escalation in the final estimates beyond 10 per cent the situation will have to be reviewed. So the first action to be taken after ratification by the Parliament of South Australia is to provide an up-to-date estimate to all the governments concerned. If it came within the 10 per cent escalation there would not be a problem as far as the loans are concerned, and it would then be a question of each government proceeding with its financial appropriations. 
The Australian Minerals Council has performed an excellent coordinating service over the years that it has been in operation. The honourable member is referring to certain difficulties which have arisen during the last couple of years. Only recently we arranged for the standing committee of the Minerals Council to meet. It discussed a very broad agenda covering a number of .major items, lt is preparing for another meeting shortly. A ministerial meeting of the Minerals Council will be held as soon as we can finalise arrangements. It will probably be held in a couple of months time. The agenda at that time will be a substantial one covering a very broad scope. The question of a uniform mining code, which is, of course, an ideal to which we all aspire, is a subject which has been under discussion by the standing = committee of the Council for some considerable time. We hope that we will further advance this ideal at the next meeting of the Council and that at some time in the future we will be able to introduce legislation which will produce satisfying results for the honourable member. 
The Minister for Civil Avi ation has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
These concepts are under study in the United Kingdom and United States and Japan. They are technically feasible though land reclamation would normally provide the less expensive answer provided only that very deep water is not involved with the land reclamation. There are also some problems, including the corrosive effects of sea water and the physical effects of the waves, which are still to be resolved. 
Specific consideration has not been given to applying this concept in Australia at any one location. The whole idea still requires a great deal of research and evaluation. 
Yes, the Department of Civil Aviation is keeping itself informed. 
It is too early to say whether the concept will prove practicable and whether it will prove economical in Australia. 
It is a fact that following some exploration work by the Exoil, Magellan and other companies some deposits were discovered near Mereenie. I might add that subsequent to that there have been some indications of gas deposits at Palm Valley, a short distance away from that area. At present a feasibility study is being undertaken by the companies following discussions and negotiations with my Department as to the possibility of the provision of a small refinery at Alice Springs. Included in this feasibility study will naturally be the situation regarding the marketing of the products in the area of Alice Springs and Tennant Creek. The provision of such a refinery would be dependent upon a decision being made by the Government on the marketing arrangements as this is tied up with the Commonwealth subsidy in relation to the pricing situation. However, as I said before, this discovery is not an extremely large one but it is a valuable one. The question of further consideration after the feasibility study has been concluded will be dealt with at that time. I do not doubt that as soon as the companies have concluded their study they will again approach my Department and continue the negotiations. 
 The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  certainly has a special interest in the Burdekin Basin and referred to it at length today as he has done on a few occasions in the past. I indicated to him on the last occasion when he raised this matter that a study is being undertaken of the Broken River area, which is primarily the responsibility of the Queensland Government, but the Commonwealth Government is providing some assistance to the State. This is part of an overall study of the whole area, lt is not for the Commonwealth Government to take the initiative, but we are co-operating to the best of our ability. When any further information is available as a result of the intensive study that is being undertaken, the honourable member for Dawson will certainly be kept informed. It is interesting to look back at history. In the Hansard reports of 4th May 1967 and 4th April 1968 one can see that similar motions were moved by the honourable member for Dawson and somewhat similar speeches were made by him. Of course, on both of those occasions, the Parliament did not accept the proposals that he put forward. By referring in detail today to a number of matters I want merely to indicate why in substance the basis of his proposal is still not acceptable to the Government. However, he made some points concerning co-ordination from a national point of view in which we have a special interest and in which we are taking an active part at the moment. Not only is the Government aware of the importance of water as a basic factor in the growth of Australia, but also it has been doing, is doing and will continue to do something about it. The honourable member for Dawson spoke about systematic development and the need for association with the States. For many years both of these factors have been a feature of the role of the Commonwealth Government in the development of Australia's water resources. Let me outline briefly for the benefit of the House such of our policy and action as would make the honourable member's motion substantially meaningless. 
Under the Constitution the measurement, assessment, conservation, development and control of surface and underground water resources within the States are the responsibility of the individual State governments. The water conservation programmes being undertaken by the States are ample testimony that they recognise the need to develop and make available as much water as possible for use in rural areas and in towns and cities. The Commonwealth, for its part, has evolved and is continuing to evolve a pattern of co-operation with the States in this vital field of water conservation and development. In addition, the Commonwealth has provided direct assistance where specific projects of value are beyond the financial or technical resources of individual States, especially where it is considered that their development is in the national interest. 
The Commonwealth's increasingly active role falls under the following headings: Firstly, the work of Commonwealth departments and agencies in data collection, analysis and dissemination; the provision of technical, scientific and consultant services and hydrologic and engineering research: Secondly, in special agreements with the States in specific instances of water conservation and development, such as the Snowy Mountains scheme and the River Murray Commission: Thirdly, financial assistance for selected works, such as the Ord River scheme, the Blowering Dam, the Fairbairn Dam at Emerald, the BundabergKolan water scheme and the proposed border rivers scheme: Fourthly, the work of the Australian Water Reseources Council; and, lastly, the National Water Resources Development Programme. These are all the bases for co-operation and coordination between the Commonwealth Government and the individual States. 
It is obvious that Commonwealth departments and agencies have undertaken to cover a wide field of basic investigation into water resources. In many cases, the work is done in close collaboration with the States, often with supplementary work being undertaken by the States themselves. However, a great deal of original investigation is undertaken by the Commonwealth, fol lowing lines of general interest to all States and, where appropriate, the specific interests of one or more States. 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology is involved in a massive programme of collection, processing and analysis of rainfall, evaporation and other climatological data. Its water forecasting service has been steadily expanded and made more comprehensive. The Bureau also provides flood forecasting services of great value in areas subject to sudden variations in stream levels. In addition to these important information services, the Bureau conducts extensive research into the problem associated with climate and water resources in general. I mention these things in some detail because I feel it would be a great pity if too much credence was given to statements by the honourable member which would detract from the value of the co-ordinating assistance given by the Commonwealth to the States. 
However, I go even further. When we look at the part that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industry Research Organisation has played, and is playing, through extensive research into a wide range of topics associated with water, we will appreciate that this is another very active field indeed. This work of the CSIRO includes processes involved in the various stages of the hydrological cycle; instrumentation, including the development of equipment for the automatic recording and processing of hydrologic data; the relationship between soil moisture and plant growth; irrigation practice; water modification: the reduction of evaporation, and finally desalination processes. 
The Land Research Division of the CSIRO provides regional reports on land resources, and these, of course, have proved of great value to State planning authorities. Research stations operated by the CSIRO conduct studies of direct significance to the investigation and planning of irrigation development. Then, of course, there is the work of one of the most expert teams ever assembled in this country. I refer - although it was denigrated to some degree by the honourable member for Dawson - to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which, as you know, was established last year and will continue to make use of the engineering skills and expertise built up by the 
Snowy Mountains Authority during the construction of the Snowy Mountains Scheme. This Corporation is currently making feasibility studies, providing technical and scientific services and other consultant facilities, on a commercial basis, to the States and other bodies, both inside and outside Australia, in their assessment and development of water resources. To date we have the work of the Bureau of Meteorology, the work of the CSIRO and of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, we have the assistance in the field of finance and we have the basic working arrangements with the various States. Together these practical policies and activities do in fact constitute the national co-ordination which the honourable member seeks. 
But this is by no means the full story in this field. My own Department of National Development provides topographic, geologic and water resources maps which are vitally important, specialist services in geophysics for studies of underground water and also in engineering geology, and also the secretariat for the Australian Water Resources Council, which, as the House knows, comprises Ministers in charge of water use and storage in all States. The Bureau of Mineral Resources of the Department of National Development takes into consideration, in its national programme of geological mapping, the likely occurrence and availability of underground water in relation to geological structure. In addition, the Bureau has over the last decade provided considerable assistance to the States by making available geophysical services for use in exploration for underground water and in engineering studies in connection with proposed dam construction. The Commonwealth also provides other indirect assistance for water resources development. One of the most important of these is the allowance of the cost of farm water development as an income tax deduction. This can amount to a substantial rebate where the works are carried out in high income years. 
I mentioned the Australian Water Resources Council just in passing but I should examine it more fully - indeed, if I had the time, perhaps at some length - in terms of the honourable member's motion seeding what I believe, in view of what I have said and of the other things we have in mind in relation to future development, would be a body which would be superimposed unnecessarily. In 1962 the Commonwealth Government took the initiative to promote co-operation in the assessment of Australia's water resources. As a result, all Australian Governments agreed to establish the Australian Water Resources Council, the primary objective of which is the provision of a continuing, comprehensive assessment of our water resources and the extension of measurement and research so that future planning can be conducted on a sound, scientific basis. 
The Council's functions cover a very wide field and in practically all there has been very good progress. A number of permanent committees and ad hoc advisory panels gather and filter expert information to help deal with the major issues affecting the assessment and use of water. The more important subjects under consideration - and I believe they are, in the main, the very things the honourable member is seeking - are accelerated water resources measurement, and I do not think anyone would deny the priority that should be given to this; the administration and management of water resources, including quality; and, thirdly, money for research and a research programme. 
The first official assessment of Australia's water resources has already been made and published. This provided positive information previously not available and also directed attention to areas where data collection needed improving. Following a recommendation by the Water Resources Council, the Commonwealth and the States have launched an accelerated programme of surface and underground water investigations. This is well known to the House. It is planned to double the number of stream gauging stations to more than 2,800 by 1974. Besides implementing its own accelerated programmes in the Northern Territory, the Commonwealth has assisted the States programmes by making grants totalling about $2. 5m over the 3 years to 1966-67, $4.5m over the 3 years to 1969- 70, and it proposes to give up to $8.2m in the 3 years up to 1972-73. 
I conclude on the note that in this field, by the work of national water development which has been implemented and extended for a further period by this Government, by the co-ordinating authorities that I have mentioned and by other matters which will be up for consideration by the Government in the near future, the proposal of the honourable member for Dawson can be fully met now and in the future. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia have already passed legislation amending their laws to correspond with the Commonwealth Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act 1970. 
New South Wales, Tasmania, and South Australia have yet to pass their complementary legislation but 1 should expect that these Stales will do this during 1971. 
As I indicated a week or so ago in this House my understanding is that some legislation has been or is to be introduced into the South Australian Parliament along the lines indicated in a recent letter sent to the Prime Minister by the Premier of South Australia. As 1 pointed out at that time, the Premier of South Australia had publicly stated - as I have not had the opportunity of seeing the proposed Bill or any reference to any debate in relation to this matter I cannot confirm what the Premier publicly stated - that 2 clauses in the agreement which had been ratified by both Houses of this Parliament and the Parliaments of New South Wales and Victoria were to be deleted from the legislation to be introduced into the South Australian Parliament. Without a careful study of the submission by the Premier of South Australia and without a knowledge of the legislation to be considered by that Parliament, it would appear that if the 2 clauses to which he has referred were deleted the situation would be exactly the same as it was before when the other 3 Parliaments had made it quite clear that the proposal was not acceptable to them. 
I would like to make it quite clear that all the concern of the South Australian Government has been to ensure that further consideration will be given to the Chowilla project and the whole of the River Murray system in the future. This has been made quite clear although actual reference to Chowilla was removed from the present agreement with the approval of the Government of South Australia at that time. Although that was done there was an exchange of letters and at a conference between the various governments it was made quite clear that there would be a continuing study of the future development of the Murray system and that consideration would be given to Chowilla in that study. That is the position as it stands at the moment and as far as the various governments are concerned. However, this Government cannot give a reply to the Premier of South Australia as the Prime Minister has not had an opportunity to study the matter fully and becausewe are not aware of the full details of the proposed legislation or of the debate that is taking place. 
The matter has been dealt with very capably by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson).  He stated the position very clearly. There is only one other point that 1 would like to stress and that is that apparently the Opposition, in its desire to be constructive - and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has claimed it desires to be constructive - has overlooked the fact that if this amendment were carried as an instruction to Parliament to incorporate it in the existing legislation this Bill would have to be withdrawn and the matter would have to be referred back to the State Government for consideration by the State and by the local authorities concerned because there is no appropriation for this. The total amount that has been allocated has been worked out after negotiation and consultation with the State authorities and with the local authorities concerned. The 1 1 rivers, including 5 additional major rivers, have been included in this measure for the 7- year period. If the amendment were carried the matter would have to go back to the authorities concerned to discuss the inclusion of an additional river and to see whether some further appropriation could be made. 
I suggest to the Opposition that, if it desires to see that this matter is handled constructively, it should not pursue this amendment to a vote. If it does it will be indicating that it wishes to delay rather than to assist the passage of the measure. 
The honourable member for Riverina was not in the House when I answered, during the second reading debate, the question that he raised as to whether Nambucca could be considered under the national water resources development scheme if it were put to us on a priority basis by the State in the future. The answer is: Yes, the national water resources fund is set up to include works for flood mitigation purposes. The proposals must be submitted on a priority basis by the States concerned. Flood mitigation schemes on major rivers in New South Wales have to be initiated by organisations of the local authorities, in consultation with the State authorities, and eventually the State makes a submission to us under this scheme. I ask the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  to consider this matter very carefully because I am sure that, if he wishes to be constructive, he will withdraw this amendment. 
in reply - In the second reading speech I indicated to the House the importance of this measure. It was pleasing to see during the debate that, apart from one exception, all the speakers have indicated strong support for the Bill and the basic proposals. In relation to the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  this, as he would really understand, is not acceptable to the Government and I am sure it will not be acceptable to the House. There are a number of special reasons why it would be completely unacceptable. The first important reason is that it would mean considerable delay if we were to withdraw the Bill or what flowed from the Bill. It would mean a delay of some considerable time - perhaps years - while a joint select committee of the Parliament took the time to investigate the matter and make certain recommendations. 
This is a measure which is of vital importance and on which we have already given undertakings to the Government of New South Wales and to the local authorities concerned. We could not accept any delay, as would be implicit in acceptance of the proposed amendment. The second thing is that it is basically not applicable to this measure, because the question of setting up of a disaster fund or setting up a committee to investigate the establishment of such an organisation has no real direct relationship to the measure that is before the House. It is something that could be brought up in some other context, but certainly it has no direct relationship to the measure before the House. I know that the honourable member for Dawson really understands that position. So for those 2 basic reasons the amendment is not acceptable. 
During his comments the honourable member for Dawson asked for information regarding benefits, or whether any benefit study had been made, of the previous programme of flood mitigation in the coastal rivers area of New South Wales. The information which we have and which has been provided in the memorandum refers mainly to the area of responsibilities and the overall benefits that have accrued as far as the area is concerned. I think that during the debate it has been brought out very clearly that there is strong support for the measures that have been undertaken and a desire to see that they are continued, as proposed in this Bill. Even if it were possible to indicate a cost benefit analysis in relation to the rural areas, this could not have been done in the time. Perhaps at some time in the future it may be possible for such a cost benefit study to be undertaken. If it is possible 1 will certainly see that something is done about it. But sufficient time has not elapsed since the initial work was undertaken and the proportion of work that has been undertaken in relation to rural areas is such that we could not provide sufficient information at this point of time. 
The honourable member for Dawson also asked in relation to this and other matters associated with water conservation or flood mitigation that regular progress statements be made to Parliament. I did interject and say that I would certainly see that this was done. It is my intention this year to introduce for the first time an annual report to the Parliament from my Department. Up to the present time there have been annual reports from the various authorities associated with the Department but there has not been a special report by the Department itself. I feel that the stage has been reached when there are sufficient matters of great moment and importance to report regularly to this Parliament and that we should have an annual report of the Department of National Development presented. For the first occasion I will be presenting an annual report this year. It will contain reference to expenditure on flood mitigation, water conservation and matters of that nature. This will give the opportunity for discussion to flow from it in the Parliament. This, being an annual report, means that at regular intervals each year these matters will be covered. 
The honourable member for Dawson also indicated that he had in mind an extension of this flood mitigation scheme beyond the rivers of New South Wales to other areas in Australia. It has been made clear under the national water resources development programme, the fund which has been established by the Government for the second 5-year period, that it will cover flood mitigation works. The expenditure in the Bill will come out of that fund. If there are proposals by other States in other areas and they are given priority by the States concerned the matter will receive consideration for expenditure under the fund that has already been established. I thank the honourable member for Dawson for .his reference to the explanatory memorandum which has been attached to this measure. It is an innovation which, as he has indicated, is a fairly recent one.  1  can assure him that it will be continued in the future. We have introduced it in relation to water conservation and flood mitigation matters which come, by way of legislation, before the Parliament. I will be examining the possibility of extending this system to other matters. However, I can give the honourable member an assurance that this type of information system will continue. 
The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  referred to a proposal for the extension of the flood mitigation scheme to cover the Nambucca River. I understand that at the Committee stage an amendment will be moved by the honourable member for Dawson in relation to this matter. As it has been mentioned during this debate I think I should draw attention to the basic fact that these proposals are not initiated by the Commonwealth. They go to the State through the local authorities concerned and the organisations set up by those local authorities, and are submitted on a basis of priority by the State for consideration for Commonwealth assistance. This was done in the previous scheme. It has been done in the new scheme which is covered by the measure before the House. The honourable member for Riverina referred to some correspondence relating to the Nambucca proposal. I have not seen the correspondence in relation to it. However, if any proposals are submitted by the New South Wales Government in relation to this proposal supported by local authorities for consideration under the national water resources development fund in the future, and if they are given the appropriate priority by the New South Wales Government, they will be considered under the fund. But at the moment it is not part of the present scheme which now covers, with the additional 5 rivers, the 11 major rivers in New South Wales. 
Finally I would like to touch on the question raised by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  He emphasised that there had been some delay in this matter being dealt with by the Commonwealth. I can assure him that there has been no delay because, as the Bill clearly states, it is dated back to cover a 7-year period commencing 1st July 1969, and funds will be appropriated to cover that particular period, as required and requested by the State. Following the usual procedure, after the submission has been made by the State to the Commonwealth we must go through the procedure of examining the situation. A formula of investigation is followed. It was done in this case in exactly the same way as in all other cases under the national water resources development scheme. When the investigations were completed and all the information had been provided by the local authorities and by the New South Wales Government last year I had the opportunity of announcing publicly that the Commonwealth would approve the proposal and it would be ratified by legislation at the first opportunity. The legislation was prepared last year and we have had the opportunity now early this year of introducing it into Parliament. In other words, the scheme is continuing on from the previous scheme and there will be no delay in the work continuing beyond that. What funds are required to cover the period back to July 1969 will be authorised when this measure passes through both Houses. I do again commend the Bill to the House and for the reasons I have stated the Government cannot accept the proposed amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Flight 514 arrived in Perth more than 10 minutes late on 11 occasions out of 52 operations in June, July and August. In addition one flight was cancelled. 
Flight 522 was operated 35 times and was more than 10 minutes late on 13 occasions. 
Flight 514- 
Cancellation because of weather  -  1 
Delays by headwinds or adverse weather - 6 
Delays due to mechanical reasons  -  1 
Delays consequential on late arrival of connecting flights - 2 
Refuelling delay - 1 
One delay was 40 minutes, the remainder were 30 minutes or less. 
Flight 522- 
Delays due to adverse weather  -  4 
Delays due to mechanical reasons  -  1 
Delays due to late arrival of connecting flights- 8 
One delay was 2 hours 40 minutes, the remainder were 55 minutes or less. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Ansett Airlines flight 210 was more than 10 minutes late on 53 occasions out of 92 operations in June, July and August. 
Flight 222 was late more than 10 minutes on 14 occasions out of 30 operations. 
Flight 210- 
Delays due to late arrival of connecting flight and subsequent adverse weather -28 
Delays due to delays on previous stages - 18 
Delays due to headwinds  -  5 
Delays due to mechanical reasons  -  2 
Forty-five of the 53 delays were less than 1 hour. The highest delays were 1 hour 45 minutes. 
Flight 222- 
Delays due to late arrival and subsequent headwinds  -  4 
Delays due to headwinds  -  6 
Delays due to mechanical causes  -  2 
Delay due to bomb scare - 1 
Delay due to industrial dispute - 1 
The highest delay was 2 hours 50 min  utes. The remainder were mostly between one and two hours. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following schedule includes both total and delayed passenger flights, for the 12 months period, operated by both TAA and AAA from mainland capital city airports - 
I have not details of the exact prices obtained by the companies which negotiate contracts with Japan and other countries. The matter before us concerns principally the industry in New South Wales and Queensland where some substantial contracts have been signed over recent years. There are no export controls over coal at the present time and any arrangements that are made are the result of negotiations between the companies in Australia and those overseas and by agreement with the State government concerned. We do, of course, receive advice from time to time in relation to these matters and we do keep a careful check on the situation. However, to the best of my knowledge the prices in a general sense are as high as the world standards, but I will check on the details that the honourable member has mentioned and let him have some additional information. 
I should like to point out also the tremendous value of this industry to Australia at the present time and the increasing value of it for the future. There is a world shortage of high grade coking coal and more interest is being shown by Europe in Australia now than at any time in the past. 
Certainly there will be contracts in the future with Japan and these will be of tremendous value to our export earnings. Having said that, I now point out that we are fully aware of the necessity to preserve sufficient coal for our own requirements in the future and also to maintain at the same time a balance in exports between high grade coking coal, the lower grade coking coal and the steaming coals. This matter is being watched very carefully and I can assure the honourable member that the aspect of price will be kept under consideration. 
I appreciate the problems that emerge when floods occur in the Darling River and the other river systems throughout Australia. I might say that these unfortunate floods occur only infrequently. The two river systems mentioned by the honourable member - the Darling system and the Murray system - are the largest river systems in Australia. They are subject perhaps to greater control by means of dams which have been constructed and also because of the work of the various authorities in the States over the years. However, at the present time a further study is being undertaken in relation to the whole Darling system as distinct from the Murray system. I hope that emerging from this study and also from further consultation with the States, we will have a better idea of flood control in the future. I would like to point out quite definitely that whilst we can mitigate floods to some degree, under circumstances that exist we can never entirely avoid them, but it is the duty of governments, both Commonwealth and State, to do everything possible to mitigate the effects of floods. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth/States Consultative Committee on Nuclear Energy has met once, namely on 8th June 1970 in Canberra. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has settled down very satisfactorily to carry out the policy which has been laid down by this Parliament. It is pleasing to know that it has been able to obtain quite a number of contracts, some of which are very substantial, particularly overseas. Under the terms of its constitution the Corporation does this in many cases in conjunction with private consultant firms. Recently, a very substantial contract was obtained by the- Corporation in South Korea. The Minister for Primary Industry happened to be in that country at the time and he assisted very substantially in the finalisation of the contract. The Government anticipates that more contracts will be obtained in the future because the standing of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, now the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, is very high throughout the world. Many inquiries have been received. Many openings are being followed by the Corporation at the present time. I anticipate that, in addition to the hundreds of contracts which the Corporation is assisting in Australia, it will win an increasing number of substantial contracts overseas in the future. 
by leave - As this is the first sitting day since my appointment as Leader of the House, I wish to take the opportunity to indicate briefly my intention to work at all times towards the smooth and efficient operation of the House. It will be my aim to establish as quickly as possible a close cooperative working arrangement with  Mr Speaker,  The Clerks of the House, the Government and Opposition Whips, and the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The efficient transaction of Government, general and private members' business can result only from the utmost co-operation of all members, and I hope to play my part in working with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition towards this end. 
The prestige and dignity of Parliament are vital to the maintenance of a democratic system of government, and at this early point of time I can assure the House that there will be no lack of. effort on my part to ensure that the high standing of this House is maintained. It is my duty to ensure that the Government's legislative programme proceeds ' on schedule, but at the same time there must be a full recognistion of the rights of all members to adequate debating time for1 general and private members' business. I am sure that I can depend upon the support of all members of the House in the maintenance of these principles and practice. 
I move: 
That Government Business, Order of the Day No. 1, Australian War Memorial Bill 1970. second reading, be discharged. 
In moving this motion 1 should like to explain briefly to the House the reason behind it. Since the Bill as now drafted was introduced on 21st May last year the Government has been considering further amendments to it. I am advised by the  Clerk  that the proposed amendments would fall outside the long title  of  the present Bill so that the amendments could be incorporated only as a result  of  some complicated procedures. In addition, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has indicated to the Government his interest in certain other proposals. For these reasons the Government believes it preferable to withdraw the present Bill. In due course a redrafted Bill will be introduced by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt). 
 in reply - I just want to make the brief comment that the last point raised by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  will certainly be examined. The other matters relating to the Bill will be referred to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  who has responsibility for the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the indulgence. of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Dried Fruits Levy Bill, and the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The detailed investigation being conducted by the Air Safety Investigation Branch is still in progress and, when it has been completed, a report will be produced for the information of all interested parlies. As this investigation involves considerable inquiry overseas to the Canadian 
Operator, to the Canadian Department of Transport and to aircraft manufacturers, it is not likely that this report will be completed more quickly than is normal. 
 I want to make it very clear at the outset that all State governments and the Federal Government are conscious in the extreme of their obligations in regard to pollution. There is now, and there will continue to be, the greatest co-operation by all concerned in the development of an overall or national outlook on the management and exploitation of Australia's resources for the benefit of mankind. 
I reject completely the charges made by the Opposition. Perhaps the best way I can possibly do this is to state the facts of involvement by the Government in its endeavour to encourage the orderly and responsible use of our bounties. It is, of course, an inevitable consequence of increasing technological development and rising standards of living that man is more and more modifying his environment. The ! words 'ecosystem' and 'biosphere' are frequently used instead of the word 'environment', in current writings on this matter. Both words contain the thought of involvement with the complete environment, including all forms of life, and this is the basic thinking of the Government. 
It is apparent that any adequate consideration of the overall quality of the environment must involve practically all the major scientific disciplines and that a recurring feature will be the action and reaction between various phases of the environment as changes occur in any one of them. The problem is aggravated by the fact that it is often impossible to foresee the consequences of a step which is taken for a particular beneficial purpose but which may in the long term have quite damaging effects. Current concern about the long term effects of DDT is a good illustration. It is interesting to note that, together with proposals and action to restrict the use of DDT, the World Health Organisation itself has pointed out that a complete ban could have disastrous effects on the programme to eradicate such scourges as malaria. Another example in an entirely different area is the complex series of problems involving soil erosion and river pollution which can result from changes in land management with the objective of increasing agricultural productivity. 
J mention these 2 examples to point out to the Opposition that there is such depth of thinking and planning in relation to the overall problem that decisions in the interest of all concerned cannot be made hastily. In fact, quite apart from the complex technical problems, there are very difficult questions of economics and finance associated with any move for environmental control. For instance, control of industrial establishments to avoid atmospheric and water pollution can involve significant costs and can affect the viability of an industry which is in competition with comparable industries overseas which are working with less stringent requirements and in some cases, are receiving Government assistance to meet them. This is also one of the reasons favouring the fixing of uniform standards throughout Australia. Furthermore, the justification for the cost involved in adhering to a particular standard may not be clear when, as often happens, the benefits are largely qualitative and relate broadly to the maintenance or restoration of a particular set of values associated with aesthetics or congenial living conditions. 
The concept of the imposition of standards for the treatment of wastes or for other practices presupposes the establishment of programmes for collection of the data which will provide a measure of the quality of the environment, particularly air and water but including land, flora and fauna: the establishment of standards to be set; and an adequate legal and administrative framework to ensure adherence to standards. All these tasks are quite difficult, but all our talks with the States through the Australian Minerals Council, the Australian Water Resources Council and the Australian Forestry Council, for example, and with private enterprise are aimed at their consideration in the national planning sense to which I just referred. Of course, much has been done so far. I feel that, far from being critical, the Opposition measure should acknowledge the breadth of thinking and action that is occurring with such wholehearted cooperation by all the elements concerned. 
It should be obvious to the Opposition that air and water movements do not conform to State boundaries. Pollution may in some cases introduce health hazards which also extend beyond boundaries of a State. It may, in some cases, have very long term consequences and may be virtually irreversible. As I mentioned earlier, variations in different States in the standards set for pollution control can have an important effect on the economy of some industries. For these and other reasons, and perhaps simply because this whole question has become one of major national significance, the Commonwealth's aim is to take a leading role with the object of ensuring satisfactory and uniform practices and standards. 
Its overall objective is to provide for effective management of resources, ensuring optimum benefits for present use, consistent with maintenance, and where possible betterment of the quality of the environment. 
Let me be more specific on the 3 areas of action being taken specifically at the present time by my Department - on mining, forestry and water. The philosophy of the Government is to seek the achievement of maximum satisfaction of material and cultural needs consistent with minimum interference with the natural environment. It takes this philosophy into the councils of the State Ministers for Mines and into its discussions with private enterprise. I believe that we are making most substantial progress. All States concur with the overall goal. The Australian Mining Industry Council encourages its member industries to undertake economic redevelopment to regenerate areas damaged and to take measures to forestall any future pollution or other environment hazard. This is the first concrete fact of achievement that I would state to the House. 
The second is the report by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution which made many pertinent findings. Several of its recommendations have been embraced wholeheartedly by industry and individuals. There is no doubt about the validity of the principal thesis of the report, namely, that there should be national co-ordination of effort in the management of water quality. How it is to be achieved is a matter for consideration. I believe it can be achieved through the type of machinery and programme which' is already in use. In this respect, the Australian Water Resources Council at its last meeting agreed to set up a technical committee, with extensive terms of reference, on the quality of water. 
The third example is in the field of forestry. The Australian Forestry Council resolved at its last meeting in July that its standing committee of officials should study aspects of forestry activities in relation to the maintenance of the quality of the environment and report to the next meeting of the Council. I think I have covered adequately the firm and progressive steps that have been taken by the Government in co-operation with the States and with industry. Of course, this is by no means the end of thinking as far as the Government is concerned. There are many examples that have been given to this House of action that has been taken and it is at the present time, as has been stated, the intention of the Government to establish before not too long an office of the environment. This will deal with problems associated with pollution as far as Commonwealth Government departments and instrumentalities are concerned. In addition it has been and is still the intention of the Government to institute negotiations with the States to set up a national council on the environment which will cover many of the aspects I have mentioned. So because of the points I have raised and the facts I have set before the House I believe the Opposition motion has no substance and should be rejected. 
 There are just one or two points on which I could comment. First of all, there has been no change in the practice as far as question time is concerned, and the facts which can be ex tracted from the records of the sittings of the House bear this out. If we look back over the years we will see that the situation has been exactly the same as it is at present. The Prime Minister cited quite a number of occasions over the years, but just by glancing very quickly at the records it is possible to see that there has quite frequently been time shorter than 45 minutes for questions without notice. There are 2 points to mention in relation to this. One is the question of the utilisation of the time and the other is what appears to be the increasing time allocated to petitions. Perhaps the Standing Orders Committee could look at the time for presentation of petitions. This could be brought before the Standing Orders Committee at any time by any member. Perhaps we could suggest that that be done and that the Standing Orders Committee consider this aspect in the future. 
Another point which I think is quite obvious to most honourable members in the House is the special privilege which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  have at question time. I do not deny that the privilege is a correct one but the fact is that the Leader of the Opposition particularly does utilise during question time a lot of time which could be taken up by back bench members of his Party. I think this is a point to note. In addition there is the fact that there is available to honourable members the right to ask questions on notice, lt is very interesting to note that on the notice paper today there are 3,054 questions. Many of those have been asked recently. .1 think this indicates quite clearly that the forms of the House are being quite rightly taken advantage of as far as questions and the desire to elicit information are concerned. However the main point is that there is no departure from procedure. Times shown in the records over the years indicate that this practice has been followed and the Prime Minister has intimated that he is carrying out the practice that has been adopted by the House for years. I repeat that if the question of the additional number of petitions which are being presented at this stage is a problem, that matter could be considered quite adequately by the Standing Orders Committee. It could pay regard to the time occupied by the presentation of petitions. 
I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until 11 a.m. tomorrow. 
The reason for the House meeting at 11 o'clock tomorrow morning is that  Mr Speaker,  the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Leader for the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  will be associated with the official farewell function for the Duke of Edinburgh, and they would not be available in the House before that time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until Tuesday next at 2.30 p.m. 
In moving this motion, I should like to explain briefly to the House the programme of sittings of the House for next week. Under normal sitting arrangements the House would resume next Monday. However, a Premiers Conference has been called for Monday and it is customary to make this chamber available for such conferences. I should also like to indicate to the House that it is not proposed to sit next Thursday 8th April. This decision has been taken to meet the convenience of honourable members who wish to be back in their electorates in time for the Easter recess. 
May I remind the House that the sittings will resume after Easter on Tuesday, 20th April. Under normal arrangements Monday, 26th April, would be a sitting day. However, because this day is being observed in some States , as an Anzac Day holiday the House will not sit on that day, but will sit again on Tuesday, 27th April. 
I did see a report which appeared in rather startling form indicating that some damage had occurred and some danger had resulted from a minor accident. Some drums of a material - thorium hydroxide - were being removed from a Department of Supply store, which has now been closed, and taken to the Atomic Energy Commission store at Lucas Heights. On the way a minor accident occurred and a drum of this material fell to the roadside. It was later collected and replaced on the vehicle and returned. Normal precautions were taken at the time. A geiger counter was produced and checks were made in the area, lt was found that there was no indication of any dangerous radioactivity. The Press report stated that a nuclear fuel was involved, but this was quite incorrect. It is not a nuclear fuel. It is a beach sand product which had been used for experimental purposes some years ago to determine whether a nuclear fuel could be produced from it. In fact, it is only the basic material with a low degree of radioactivity. There was no danger whatever in carrying it as it was carried on a vehicle across the centre of Sydney. I emphasise that extreme precautions are taken by the Atomic Energy Commission in handling material of any type which comes within its possession. It observes very strictly all the precautions that are laid down by the world agency. No country is more strict than Australia in applying these particular safeguards. 
 In opening this debate for the Government side of the House the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  dealt very thoroughly with CommonwealthSlate financial arrangements which are, of course, at the core of this matter of public importance, f must also say that I cannot understand the timing or purpose of this discussion. Only yesterday a new high in Commonwealth-State relationships was reached and this discussion really flies in the face of national public opinion and reaction. 1 have no hesitation in saying that this matter has no substance in fact. Indeed, I. am pleased to have the opportunity to present indisputable evidence of co-ordinated activity at many levels without which it would be impossible for either the State or Federal governments to function efficiently. 
National development, for example, provides one of the best examples in the whole spectrum of co-operation. Development is a national aim and as economic and social developments have increased the range and variety of government activity, so has the Commonwealth become an active participant with the States in national expansion. The Commonwealth assists development generally by helping to create a climate for investment, by making available grants and loans, by establishing special financial channels to assist private enterprise, and by investment in such responsibilities as civil aviation, telecommunications, health, social welfare, basic research and exploration programmes, in none of these things does the Government act unilaterally. 
Real strength is gained only through integration with State activities at all levels and on all occasions. The range and extent of the measures involved, whether they be in the fields of finance, tariffs, health or development, emphasise the co-operative nature of the relationships both between the Commonwealth and State governments and between public and private enterprise. My Department could not possibly function without the backing and support of the States. How could we possibly carry out our prime responsibilities of geological and geophysical surveys, mapping, the search for petroleum, studies of energy demand and output, forestry research, expansion of forest planting, assessment of water resources, and developmental schemes such as beef roads and irrigation projects - to mention but a few - without complete trust and willingness to combine for the national good? 
Out of this very basic recognition of need have sprung such bodies as the Australian Water Resources Council, the Australian Forestry Council, the Australian Minerals Council, the River Murray Commission, the Snowy Mountains Council and the National Coal Research Advisory Council, to mention merely a few. All these bodies are representative of the States and the Commonwealth. In addition, regular meetings of Ministers concerned with northern development are held. Currently being arranged is another regular meeting of the Australian Minerals Council, and meetings between Commonwealth and State liaison officers are commonplace. Through these special channels of cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States all governments get on with the job of seeking out, assessing, planning and encouraging the development of Australia. 
I stress once again that I have concentrated only on the relationship between my Department and the States. On them alone the Opposition stands indicted on a charge of wasting the time of this House. 
Honourable members opposite also referred to the problem of local authorities. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  referred to the fact that local authorities are State instrumentalities yet the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  just prior to that had been referring not only to local authorities but also to proposals for regional planning, obviously stemming from the Opposition's policy of centralism. I have not the time to deal with that particular matter now, but I understand that my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  will deal with it. 
Let me touch briefly on other examples of co-operation, such as the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement which is shortly to be renegotiated at a conference between Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers and the regular meetings of the State Ministers for Transport, of AttorneysGeneral, of Health Ministers, of Ministers for Primary Industry and, as we saw yesterday, of Premiers with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The whole range of national advance and outlook is completely dependent on this structure of CommonwealthState relationships in all their various forms. In 1969-70 Australia had a gross national product of $30,162m won by a nation of fewer than 13 million people. It had over 5 million people in its work force and one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world. Australia ranks ninth in the world as a trading nation and is recognised as having one of the most stable economies in the world. But perhaps more than anything else, it is recognised by the governments and financiers of the world as a nation with the best prospects for advancement. This does not come about by accident. It is the sum of the cooperative efforts of all governments and the community. 
There ls no lack of public information on what is happening, as the Opposition has claimed, because there is really no need for it. Australia as a nation is one of the greatest news stories of the modern era. Before I conclude I would like to quote from statements made by the Premiers after their meeting in Canberra yesterday with the Prime Minister and the Treasurer and after the formal meeting of the Loan Council which followed briefly afterwards.  Mr Dunstan,  the Labor Premier of South Australia, said: 
There was no sign of discrimination against the ALP Premiers, lt was evident the Commonwealth was concerned to see the States are able to carry on effectively. 
I should mention that at previous Premiers Conferences  Mr Dunstan  had complained that South Australia was being discriminated against because it had a Labor government.  Mr Tonkin,  the Labor Premier of Western Australia, said: 
This is an entirely new attitude. The Prime Minister has made a definite gesture to improve CommonwealthState relations. 

 Mr Askin, the Liberal Premier of New 
South Wales, had this to say: 

 Mr McMahon is 'fair dinkum' in his search tor a realistic growth tax for the States. 

 Sir Henry Bolte, the Liberal Premier of Victoria, said this today: 
I feel that  Mr McMahon  took a very realistic view. 1 doubt whether he could have done better. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen, the Country Party Premier of Queensland, said this: 
I personally compliment the Prime Minister and the Commonwealth on its attitude today to the problems of the States. 

 Mr Bethune, the Liberal Premier of Tasmania, said: 

 Mr McMahon and  Mr Snedden  showed a sympathetic understanding of the States' positions. 
Honourable members will note that there was not one word of criticism of CommonwealthState relationships in those statements made and published by the Premiers today, not even from the Labor Premiers. To the contrary, as honourable members will gather from the statements I have quoted, there has been some praise. I am sure that this makes the Opposition's motion today, in the wording in which it has been submitted to the House, a very hollow one indeed. I am sure that the House will reject it. I was very interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports when he referred to the action which was taken yesterday by the Commonwealth to assist the States as being only a palliative. This is refuted entirely by what the Premiers have said, because it is major assistance for this financial year and it substantially improves the States' positions not only for this financial year but also in relation to the preparation for their Budgets next year. I am sure that when all these matters are carefully considered by the House the Opposition's motion will be rejected entirely. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question dealing with the interdepartmental committee set up to review the functions and establishment of the Bureau of Mineral Resources did not seek, and my answer to it did not contain, details of dates upon which the committee met or how its deliberations proceeded. 
The honourable member's question dealing with interdepartmental committees established to consider (a) northern development, (b) development projects other than projects in northern Australia, and (c) natural resources sought information on the dates on which meetings of these committees had been held. My reply to that question stated that details of the proceedings of interdepartmental committees are confidential and it is not the policy of the Government to disclose the type of information sought. 
I have nothing to add to that reply. 
It is a coincidence that I was talkingto the Minister for Civil Aviation on this matter this morning. It is a fact that Qantas has some options on 4 Concorde aircraft which have not yet been taken up. The situation at present is that Qantas is still continuing with its evaluation of the aircraft from the point of view of economics, operational capacity and other matters which must be taken into account. The company is not in a position at the moment to make a recommendation to the Minister for Civil Aviation but it is expected in the near future that it could be in a position to make a submission as to whether or not it would recommendthe taking up of the options. 
There is a certain amount of doubt in relation to powers at the moment. There could be complementary powers so far as the Commonwealth. the States and perhaps local authorities are concerned, but that is a matter which would be subject to further study. Of course, the noise problem is under close study and is attracting a considerable amount of attention not only in the United States of America, as the honourable member is well aware, but also in Europe. The only comment I could make is that obviously the Department of Civil Aviation, which has conducted some studies already will be watching this matter very closely indeed. 
I should like to add that if a supersonic aircraft travelled on a route across water, when it approached an airport - for example, Sydney, which is the airport about which the honourable member is most concerned - it would approach it at subsonic speed. So there would be quite a variation in the noise level relative to the speed at which it was travelling. However, I will see that the question which the honourable member has raised is referredto my colleague in another place, and if any further information can be provided at this stage I will see that it is obtained for him. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has supplied the answer to the honourable member's question, as follows: 
The aircraft involved in the delay was assigned to operate Flight 425 between Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne. When airborne on the Sydney to Canberra  sector,  after penetration of turbulence, high frequency vibration was recorded on the No.  2  engine and consequently the engine was shut down and the propeller feathered. 
A subsequent ground inspection by technical personnel revealed that the time required for rectification of the fault would be indefinite. 
Accordingly Flight 425 to Melbourne was cancelled. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
Mechanical ventilation and heating of the whole building, along with airconditioning limited areas, have cost $1.6m. Certain of the concessionaires have also airconditioned their sections at their own cost. At the time of seeking approval for the construction of the new terminal building it was estimated that it would cost a further approximate $900,000 to aircondition the balance of the building. It would also have cost a further $30,000-$40,000 in annual running expenses. However, the Parliamentary Works Committee agreed at the time that there was insufficient justification to spend that additional amount of money for the relatively few days each year when full airconditioning would be really required in the Sydney climate. 
$72,340. 
Civil Aviation: Sydney International Terminal (Question No. 3013)  Mr Stewart  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the cost of the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport international terminal. 
Why was airconditioning not included in the building. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
Although the actual final costs are not yet to hand the development of the new terminal area, including the erection of the international terminal building and the construction of associated aircraft parking aprons, taxiways, roads and car parks, will cost slightly in excess of $26m. In addition, the preparatory site works in the area cost nearly $6m. 
The provision of mechanical ventilation and heating to most areas and the airconditioning of only selected functional areas followed the practice adopted in the construction of major terminals overseas where climatic conditions are similar to Sydney. The proposal for restricted airconditioning was agreed by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works which examined the project in 1965. 
The Government has no objection to this motton and will support it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The primary purpose of this Bill is to modernise and make uniform, so far as concerns the mailand Territories of the Commonwealth and the premises of the Commonwealth wherever in Australia they may be, the law which protects the rights of the public against disorderly assemblies. The need for such a Bill was plainly and cogently stated by the then Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  in moving the motion for the second reading. I support the Bill for the reasons he then gave. 
The second purpose of the Bill is to make new and special provision for the protection, anywhere in Australia, of those who represent other countries here, and of the premises they occupy. This provision is made by Part III of the Bill. Because of the importance of this matter for Australia's international relations, 1 draw it to the particular attention of the House. 1 do this,  Mr Speaker,  in my capacity as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The duty to protect against interference, injury or damage the representatives of other countries, and the premises they occupy, is not a new one. As part of the customary law of nations, it has rested on Australia ever since we became a nation, though more recently the rules have been embodied in a series of international conventions, notably the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations (1961), to which Australia and nearly 100 other countries are party. Broadly expressed, the special duty imposed by international law on a state that receives a diplomatic or special mission, or consents to the establishment of a consular post, is to take appropriate steps to protect the premises of the mission or post against intrusion or damage, to prevent any attack on the person, freedom or dignity of the personnel of the mission or post and to prevent disturbance of the peace, or impairment of the dignity, of the mission or post. This is set  0'&gt;t  in clause 14 of the Bill. 
To a considerable extent, the steps that are 'appropriate' to the discharge of this duty in relation to what the Bill calls 'protected persons' and 'protected premises' will be administrative rather than legislative measures - the provision, for example, of a special police guard. Honourable members will know that measures of this kind are already in operation in Australia, in situations where injury is apprehended. But in the nature of things such preventive action can never in practice give absolute protection. If, notwithstanding precautionary measures, injury or damage is done to the representative of another country, to the premises he occupies, the host state falls under a secondary duty to do its utmost to identify the offender and bring him to justice. This is why the existence of an adequate law is so necessary. 
Hitherto in Australia, as in other countries under a developed legal system, the general law that applies to the members of the Australian community has seemed sufficient to discharge Australia's international legal duty. Those who represent other countries have had the full protection for person and property that Australian citizens themselves enjoyed, and that has seemed enough. Of late, times have changed. Resort to disorderly assemblies and demonstrations, often in deliberate disregard of the rights of others, has made it necessary for this Parliament to review, so far as its own powers extend, the existing law of public order. As the then AttorneyGeneral said in moving the second reading, much of the existing law of public assemblies in Australia is archaic, diverse, unduly severe, difficult to find, and difficult to apply. The chief object of this Bill is to clarify, simplify, modernise and improve the law of public assemblies, as regards the Commonwealth Territories on the mainland and Commonwealth premises everywhere in Australia. 
The general law of public order is, of course, a matter not for the Commonwealth but for the States. But the powers of this Parliament extend to the protection of the representatives of other countries in Australia, and the premises they occupy, wherever they may be in Australia. Accordingly, the improvements which this Bill makes in Commonwealth law need to be applied also to the protection of the representatives of other governments, and their premises. This in effect is what Part III of the Bill does. Some of the protected persons, but by no means all, are to be found in this Territory, to which Part II of the Bill applies. In particular, most of the diplomatic missions strictly so called, and their staffs, are in the Australian Capital Territory - though not yet all, even of these. Numerous foreign consular posts and Commonwealth trade offices are located in State capitals. More than 250 men and women are in fact performing consular functions in Australia. 
I mention also the international governmental organisations to which Australia belongs and which frequently hold meetings in Australia - in recent months, for example, the Commonwealth Education Conference, a technical conference under the International Atomic Energy Agency, and meetings of ECAFE and ANZUS. Questions of protection arise in connection with the representatives of other governments attending meetings of international organisations, just as much as in relation to permanent diplomatic missions. In addition, Australia is frequently host to special missions, conducted by heads of state, heads of government or top-ranking Ministers. 
The protection of representatives of foreign countries, and their premises, is an Australia-wide responsibility, and not merely a matter for this Territory. It is desirable that the appropriate measure of protection should apply uniformly, wherever in Australia it is required, and should not depend on the particular State or Territory in which the persons or the premises happen to be. This is the principle on which Part III has been included in the Bill. 
It is deplorable that in recent years representatives of some foreign governments, and their premises, seem to have become increasingly the object of disorderly, and even violent, dissent or protest. Ours is a free society. People have a right to express their views as individuals, or in peaceful assembly with their fellows, and there is nothing in this Bill which interferes with such a right. But the rights we enjoy in a free society must be exercised with proper respect for the rights of others. 
To ensure that the citizen's right of assembly is so exercised is the essential purpose of the Bill as a whole and the constant thread of purpose that runs through all its detailed provisions. So far as concerns assemblies, and offences committed by persons participating in assemblies, Part III of the Bill applies to protected persons and protected premises, Australiawide, the same rules as are laid down in Part II of the Bill for the mainland Territories and for Commonwealth premises. What is special here is not the content of the rules but their Australia-wide application as Commonwealth law. 
Recent Australian experience has shown only too plainly that, apart altogether from actions associated with assemblies, the representatives of other countries need protection also against acts of isolated individuals or groups; in particular, against acts of interference, trespass, obstruction or harassment. This protection is. provided by clauses 18 and 20 of the Bill, which are in no way limited to the conduct of participants in an assembly. Clause 18 covers assaults, obstructions and harassment: offered to protected persons, whether in the course of an assembly or by an isolated individual offender. The same applies io the trespass and other offences on protected premises, which are dealt with in clause 20. 
The Bill is thus principally concerned with the conduct of participants in assemblies and to fill gaps in the law of trespass and of interference with persons. Damage to property by isolated individuals, and apart from any assembly, is not within the scope of the Bill but will continue to be covered, as at present, by the general civil and criminal law of the State or Territory where the damage occurs. I mention this particularly because of recent incidents involving bomb damage to consular premises in Melbourne and diplomatic premises here m Canberra. In respect of the latter incident, proceedings have in fact been taken under the general criminal law of the Australian Capital Territory, which will continue to apply to such incidents notwithstanding the passage of the present Bill. 
The same position, as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in answering a question without notice of 18th March, would apply to any daubing of slogans, by individuals not participating in an assembly, on the walls of the South African Embassy. Similar conduct by participants in an assembly would of course be covered by the Bill. Id all cases of this kind every effort has been made, and will be made, to detect and locate the offenders and bring them to justice. 
The special position accorded .by international law to the representatives of foreign governments, and their premises, is not primarily designed to promote their personal advantage or comfort. Privileges, immunities and protection are accorded so that protected persons may be able to perform, without local interference and harassment, their functions as representa tives of their own state. In all this the House will have much in mind the essential element of reciprocity. Australia has its own representatives overseas, with important duties to discharge, sometimes in extremely difficult circumstances. They need, just as much as the foreign representatives whom we receive here, to feel free from obstruction, from harassment and from violence, and to be confident that they can rely on the host state to provide them with proper protection. The Parliament has its own part to play in maintaining in Australia the kind of conditions that Australia has a right to expect, as a sending state, for its own representatives abroad. I support the Bill. 
Obviously it would take me a considerable amount of time to answer this question fully. In view of the circumstances I think the quickest way will be for me to refer to a few statistics. Let me take 1967-68 as an example. Our export earnings from minerals in that year, classified as such in the statistical records, amounted to about $479m. In 1968-69 our earnings from them had gone up to about SI, 145m. 1 believe that this in itself indicates quite conclusively the very substantial improvement in the assistance given by these exports to the economy. The honourable member referred to the extent of exploration work. Again I think the quickest way to answer this question is for me to refer to the money which has been expended in this field. In 1967-68 the expenditure was $39m. In 1968-69 this amount had risen to about $79m for minerals alone. There was also an increase of expenditure on petroleum exploration work from about $66m to about $79m during the same period. This sum of money, of course, has been expended substantially by private enterprise. In other fields the Government does assist. The Government has assisted substantially in early exploration work by geographical and geophysical work. It also assists in the field of mapping and there is other direct assistance to people who are carrying out this very important work. It is vital that such assistance be given and that this work be continued and expanded in the future because of the tremendous value of this minerals field to the Australian economy. 
Some progress is being made in the discussions but no progress is being made in the construction of the dam. Last week at the meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council in Canberra we took the opportunity of discussing the matter informally with the Ministers concerned and it was indicated by the governments of New South Wales and Victoria that their stand was the same as they had stated previously. I indicated on behalf of the Commonwealth that we believe that the original agreement that had been signed and ratified by 3 Parliaments, and had been signed by the previous Parliament in South Australia but not ratified by the new Parliament, should proceed. I understand this information has been conveyed by the South Australian Minister to his Premier and to his Government and we expect that there will in the near future be some further correspondence between the Prime Minister and the Premier of South Australia, and between the Premiers of South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales, setting out exactly the position of all the governments concerned. It will then be up to South Australia to make up its mind on whether it wishes the work to proceed at the earliest opportunity. 
First of all, we do have some information. I do not have it readily available but I can obtain any details that are in the possession of my Department and let the honourable member have them. But I would like to point out that most of the development in Australia, particularly in the mineral field but also in other fields, is carried out by private enterprise and in many of the major cases by agreements between the companies concerned and the State governments. Conditions are laid " down in the various agreements between the companies and the State governments, and these conditions vary from State to Sate. So we find, for instance, that infrastructure costs in Western Australia differ from those in Queensland, and there are differing arrangements as to who will meet those costs. This is of importance, of course, in relation to the matter of royalties paid to the various governments. There is no simple answer that one could give concerning a straight out comparison of costs that have to be borne by the developers themselves but I will see what information is available on comparisons that can be made and will let the honourable member have it. 
Some time ago when the change took place a statement was made, as I think the honourable member knows. The company which had commenced operations at Eden - Harris-Daishowa (Aust.) Pty Ltd - was based on Japanese capital with a part Australian equity. Even at that stage and up to a year ago some changes had been made in the Australian structure of the company. This company, as the honourable member realises, had some misfortunes when it was about to commence its operations. First, it was well behind in its timing. Its expenditure was much higher than anticipated and the development of the harbour at Eden ran into some trouble which cost the company about another $500,000 which, at that time, was a dead loss. As a result, because it was so far behind in its programme and because of the additional expenditure involved, the Australian group which was involved within the company structure indicated that it wished to withdraw  -  I believe to try to cut its losses at the time. Some endeavour was made at that time to try to take up some additional Australian equity in the company but it did not succeed. I think it is fairly obvious why it could not succeed at that stage. The proposition was not a viable one and, even up to this point of time, it still is not a viable proposition. 
The company has now commenced operations. The first shipments have gone out and it is believed that within a period of years the company will become a viable proposition. As a result, when this matter was raised between the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government an undertaking was obtained from the company, which still trades under the original name of Harris-Daishowa (Aust.) Pty Ltd, that in 4 or 5 years time - I think about 5 years time - when by the contractual arrangements under the agreement it must build a pulp mill, it will offer again to the Australian market a degree of equity in the company. It is expected, because it will be a viable proposition at that stage, that this offer will be taken up. I do not know whether any company involved in the operation did approach the Australian Industries Development Corporation. Of course, that information could be ascertained only from the company itself. I can assure the House that it is quite in accordance with the original guidelines that were laid down. It is unfortunate that due to the troubles it had at the outset in getting into operation those holding the Australian equity that was involved had to withdraw. But the company is most anxious to obtain Australian equity. It has part Australian management and we expect that as soon as possible after the commencement of construction of the pulp mill Australian equity will again be taken up in the company. 
by leave -  I  move: 
That the Committee, when considering the matter referred to it on 20 April, have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
In undertaking this inquiry the Comittee may wish to have the power granted by the motion and in accordance with practice the question is proposed for the concurrence of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
At the outset I would like to make it perfectly clear that all members on the Government side of the House and I am sureI could safely say the majority of members on the Opposition side of the House, if they could speak freely, would express complete confidence in you,  Mr Speaker,  and would support the high reputation which you have established not only in this place but also in other parliaments in Australia and overseas. I am sure that those of us who have had the opportunity to observe other parliaments in operation have always been impressed by the standard that you have maintained,  Mr Speaker,  a standard which is one of the highest of any parliament in the world today. I think honourable members remember quite well - some of us certainly - the standards which deteriorated very rapidly in a previous parliament when a Labor Government was in power. As the persons concerned are not with us any longer I cannot of course, refer in detail to that situation. But what I can refer to are some of the comments made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard). 
I was surprised that a person of the standing of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition should bring into this debate some of the matter which he did. He made references of a personal nature to you,  Mr Speaker,  concerning matters which had nothing whatsoever to do with this House and, having made them, men said: 'Of course, we are not going to refer to this matter. We did not at the time and we will not now'. I am very surprised that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would introduce this particular note into the debate. He stated that the atmosphere of trust and respect which had been evident up to 15 months ago has been dissipated and that you,  Mr Speaker,  have shown partiality towards Government members. I am sure most honourable members in the House, including those of the Opposition, would completely refute this statement. I certainly do on behalf of all honourable members on the Government side because if there is anyone who has set himself out to be completely impartial in his attitude to his high duties in this House it is you,  Mr Speaker. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made some reference to what he called conniving with the Government against the Opposition. This, of course, is incorrect; but it is a sad occasion when a senior member of the Opposition introduces this note into the debate. What he was actually implying was that members of the Government have greater access to the  Speaker  than do members of the Opposition. I can only say that, looking around the House and knowing the number of members who contact the  Speaker  in his office, there are more Opposition members than Government supporters who take advantage of the Speaker's open door and also of the opportunity in the House to contact the  Speaker  on matters of concern to themselves or to the House. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to the incident which occurred yesterday in relation to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Unfortunately, as Leader of the House I, of course, was the person who had to move the motion that the honourable member for Reid be suspended. When I say 'unfortunately' I do so with some feeling because the honourable member for Reid and I have been friends for years and we served together during the last war. However, that does not. prevent one from carrying out the duty which one has under the circumstances. The position is that the House voted for the suspension of the honourable member for Reid and he was suspended for the prescribed period. 
A reference was also made to the number of honourable members who have been named by the  Speaker  during his term of office. It was obviously thought that this gave some support to the argument brought forward by the Opposition. I think we can all appreciate the attitude of members like the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who only yesterday in this House indicated quite clearly his approach to the new wave or philosophy of dissent and protest which is sweeping, apparently, not only this Parliament but also areas outside. The motion before us is merely an illustration of this type of action being carried into the House. In other words, the motion can only be described as irresponsible. 
I fear the Opposition, far from helping to maintain the dignity of Parliament, is intent by this motion on lowering the dignity of Parliament. On an earlier occasion we saw the disgraceful spectacle of members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition forming a bloc around one of its members to prevent the rules and procedures of this House being enforced. They brought then the stature of and regard for this House to its lowest possible ebb and in the process condemned themselves in the. eyes of the public. It is little wonder the Opposition bitterly opposes the legislation dealing with law and order which is now before Parliament. How can it endorse any measure invoking penalties in the name of protection for individuals and institutions when it fails to uphold the rules of Parliament itself, as was the case again yesterday.  Mr Speaker  displayed the greatest tolerance and fairness despite extreme provocation, and his rulings were entirely in accord with the Standing Orders. He made repeated references to the behaviour of some members of the Opposition and was forced to issue warnings. These, as honourable members know, were disregarded. The Opposition then gave notice that it would be moving this motion of no confidence in  Mr Speaker  and, were it not so serious, it could be regarded as almost farcical. But it is serious, very serious. 
This is only the fourth occasion on which such a motion has been tabled, the others being in 1946, 1949 and 1955. Certainly, there are precedents, but it is equally certain that the grounds of the motion have never been more flimsy. The 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are embarrassed by the misbehaviour of some of their own supporters and they must try to excuse in some way inexcusable conduct. Therefore, they are endeavouring to transfer the responsibility to  Mr Speaker.  That attempt is as ungracious as it  is  ungenerous. Let me quote from Hansard of 26th July 1946 during the debate on a similar motion when the present Opposition was in Government. The then Minister for the Navy,  Mr Makin,  said: 
Unless there is compliance with the directions of the Chair, there can be no orderly parliamentary procedure. If honourable gentlemen opposite desire to observe British parliamentary practice they must acknowledge the authority of  Mr Speaker,  who is charged with the duty  it  conducting the business of the House. 

 Mr Makin went on to say: 
Dignity cannot be associated with disrespectful conduct in relation to the Chair. ... We must recognise that the prestige of the Chair is the symbol and the embodiment of the authority of Parliament itself. We shall not lightly allow to be challenged the authority which Parliament has vested in its chief executive officer, an authority which he is bound to exercise to preserve order in the House. In this instance, the  Speaker  has upheld the highest traditions of his office, and has proved himself to be entitled to the confidence of the House. 
These were the words of a Labor Minister in 1946 and they apply very pertinently to this motion in 1971. We on this side of the House could not agree more with  Mr Makin's  words, but at the same time we cannot help but comment on the degeneration of the behaviour of some members of the Opposition since then and the change in their attitudes to and respect for the Chair and the institution of Parliament itself. On occasions when  Mr Speaker  gives a decision which is impartial and in accordance with the terms and customs of this House there has been an unfavourable reaction from the Opposition. One would have thought that the Leader of the Opposition, as a Queen's Counsel, would endeavour to influence his members to recognise the necessity for upholding the traditions of the high office of the  Speaker  and also the dignity of Parliament. But he has shown little desire to curb the activities of some of his own colleagues. In fact, it is clear that he has practically no control over them. lt must be remembered that the forms of the Parliament have evolved over the centuries with the just purpose of ensuring that the Opposition, as well as the Government, shall have full opportunity to express itself. The Government does jot in any shape or form deny the right of the Opposition to move a motion of want of confidence in  Mr Speaker.  In fact, the Parties now in Government moved 2 of the 3 similar motions already on record in 1946 and 1949. The big difference in the reasons behind the actions lies in the importance of the issues on those occasions and the blatant triviality of the issue presently before the House. Another big difference is that when the present Government was in Opposition it gave notice of a similar motion on 17th November 1948 and the motion remained on the notice paper for 7 months before the then Labor Government allowed it to be debated in the House. What a sharp contrast there is between the action of the Labor Government then and the action of this Government which accepted notice from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition only yesterday. Of course, this was predictable. 
The Government knows full well that the House will show, by its vote, that it has confidence in  Mr Speaker.  As I said before, the record of  Mr Speaker  since his election in 1967 has been outstanding. The sense of dignity and complete impartiality that you have brought to your high office,  Sir, are  well known. The deplorable fact is that if you are not assisted by some honourable members the dignity of this House can be lowered accordingly. Since your election and often under trying circumstances you,  Sir, have  endeavoured to the best of your ability to maintain a high standard in this House. The Opposition gains little from the submission of this motion. In fact, it gains only condemnation for wasting the time of the House. Yet I suppose that if the Government's legislative programme is disrupted and longer or later sittings are necessary, we will again hear the inevitable cry of 'legislation through exhaustion'. 
Let me stress that I do not challenge the right of the Opposition to move this motion, but I cannot see - as there have been no allegations against you,  Mr Speaker,  in appropriate terms of unfairness or impropriety in parliamentary action, made by the Opposition in the last 4 years - why the flimsy basis of today's motion should be regarded as a suitable vehicle. While you,  Mr Speaker,  express the firm and honest intention of maintaining order, of preserving the dignity of the House and of carrying out your duties without fear or favour, you will continue to receive the endorsement of responsible members and an appreciative nation. 1 have no hesitation in deploring and rejecting this unnecessary and irresponsible motion. 
I propose to deal briefly with 3 points - Firstly, coking coal reserves; secondly, the environment; and thirdly, the Commonwealth rights in relation to the seabed. I should firstly make it clear that mineral exploration and mining operations in Australia are governed by the relevant State legislation and these things are without question matters of State responsibility, except in the case of Commonwealth Territories. For example - and this is relevant in view of the terms of the debate - the majority of the leases which are operated by Clutha Development Pty Ltd in New South Wales were issued during the term of the former Labor Government in New South Wales. 
On the question of any threat to the quality of the environment, it goes without saying that the responsible Ministers and departments in New South Wales have taken the closest interest in this matter. I am informed that following the entering into by the New South Wales Government and Clutha Development Pty Ltd of the agreement, which was authorised by the New South Wales Parliament, there have been detailed . discussions between the company and the appropriate departments, and agreement has been reached on the inclusion of provisions in any lease that may be granted which will ensure that measures necessary to preserve the quality of the environment will be taken. These conditions will coyer the conveyance of the coal by the railway to be constructed, the stockpiling of the coal and the off-shore loading operations. The New South Wales authorities are satisfied ' that these conditions will ensure that the environment of the areas concerned will not be adversely affected. 
Quite a number of statements have been made in the last year in the Press and in other publications about Australia's reserves of coking coal. As honourable members know, Australia's main black coal - that is. coking and steaming coal - reserves are located in New South Wales and Queensland. As a result of the expansion of industrial development in Australia, the enormous increase in the production of steel in Japan and industrial developments in Europe there has been a significant increase in the production and export of black coal from Australia. In 1965 coal exports amounted to 7.2 million tons and in 1970 they totalled 18.1 million tons. As a result of this substantial growth and being aware of estimated exports from Australia in future years, the Bureau of Mineral Resources has carried out an inventory of Australia's coal resources. I informed the House of this in October last year. This inventory has now been completed and is being further examined within my Department. I expect to have a report on this matter in the near future. 
It is apparent that there are many types of coking coal. The coal areas on the south coast of New South Wales contain deposits of high-quality coking coal. A number of companies are already exploring this area for new deposits, or are currently mining known deposits. The issue of mining titles is, as I said before, solely a matter for each State. However, in regard to our coal reserves I have been in close consultation with the responsible State Ministers. In New South Wales the Joint Coal Board also has a responsibility in regard to the operation of the coal industry in that State. The Minister for Mines in New South Wales has already announced that certain action was taken after discussions were held with the Commonwealth and the Joint Coal Board. I have been informed that Queensland has also taken action to see that adequate coal resources are reserved for local industry. The New South Wales action is to reserve certain areas for steel and energy production purposes. This has the full support of the Commonwealth which wishes to ensure that there are definite reserves of coking coal for our domestic steel industry. 
In view of the demand now developing around the world for coking coal I believe that we should study the situation carefully, which my Department is doing. We must take a balanced approach as to how the coal industry is developed on the one hand. We must act to ensure that the future requirements of our domestic industry will be available at reasonable cost. On the other hand, we must not let the tremendous marketing opportunities afforded to us for a reasonable quantity of our coal to be lost to the economy. 1 assure the House that the coking coal situation is being closely examined by the Commonwealth. As a matter of fact I had discussions on this subject with the New South Wales Minister for Mines only recently and we agreed to hold further talks shortly. 
Finally. 1 should like to refer to statements made in relation to an alleged infringement of Commonwealth sovereign rights over the seabed. I. must point out firstly that in this instance the matter is one for the Government of New South 
Wales. Secondly, the mining operations already referred to will take place on land within the State of New South Wales. Thirdly, the construction and use of a loading wharf will be ancillary to the mining operations on land. Fourthly, the question of regulating the construction and use of a loading wharf of the kind suggested is appropriately a matter for the State as part of the authority of that State to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the State in relation to mining operations conducted in that State. There is no infringement on Commonwealth sovereign rights. 
I can only repeat that the measures to be adopted in the control of pollution arising from the construction, maintenance and operation of mining works are most stringent. The lessee is under an obligation to comply with the directions given by the New South Wales Minister for Mines, and I am certain that his inspectors will regularly make thorough examinations for this purpose. Consequently, I feel that the arguments advanced by the Opposition in this discussion have already been answered by my colleague the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  Whilst the interest of honourable members opposite is appreciated it is felt that the actions being taken by the Commonwealth Government and by the New South Wales Government cover the matters which have been raised. 
by leave - I move: 
That the following Orders of the Day, Government Business, be discharged. 
 No. 24 Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970: Second reading - Resumption of debate. 
No. 25 United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1970: Second reading - Resumption of debate. 
No. 26 Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill (No. 2) 1970: Second Reading- Resumption of debate. 
The reason for this motion is obvious. New Bills are to be introduced. 
I move: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the remaining stages being passed without delay. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation has been drawn to a paper read by  Dr Geoffrey  Bennett, Chief Medical Officer to the United Kingdom Department of Trade and Industry before a conference of the Guild of Air Pilots and Air Navigators in London on the 18th February 1971. In this paper  Dr Bennett  stated that 'about two per cent of the (airline) Industry's staff are alcoholics in the usually accepted sense, i.e., people whose social or professional life was affected by their drinking. The trouble is that this two per cent doesn't include many charge hands - it is the managers and aircrew almost exclusively.' 

 Dr Bennett was referring to the British airline industry. There is no similar evidence in relation to the Australian airline industry. 
There is an Australian Air Navigation Regulation which prohibits any person from acting as a member of the operating crew of an aircraft engaged in a public transport service if his ability is impaired by alcohol. In addition, the regulation expressly prohibits the consumption of alcohol by such crew members within twelve hours of going on duty. 
Detection of alcoholism is not a matter of a single test and it is therefore not practical to test each pilot before he goes on duty. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
It will be appreciated that Townsville is a first port of entry for Australia-Papua/New Guinea services and an international alternate aerodrome in the more general sense. It is now equipped to cope with those limited international commitments. 
If the question relates to upgrading the international terminal and airport movement area to cater for unrestricted international operations, then that would involve Boeing 747 services. A new and much larger international terminal, a longer and stronger new runway, additional taxiways and enlarged apron areas would be required. 
To the order of $15m. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Department has not received any such requests. A staff canteen has always been provided in the new International Terminal for all employees in the area. The canteen was established and is operated by the terminal food and liquor concessionaire as part of the concession contract. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
Yes. 
Complaints were made by staff of the various organisations within the new terminal, by the Airlines, members of the public and, in a more general sense, through the medium of the press. 
The latest consensus of opinion supports full airconditioning. This is no doubt influenced by the recent but quite strong trend towards airconditioning all new public buildings. In that context the complaints are justified insofar as the hot and humid days of mid summer are concerned. 
The immediate action taken to reduce the problem, insofar as practicable, was to provide a number of large high-speed fans. The air flow system within the Arrivals Hall was also modified to improve air circulation. 
Further action must take into account not only the consensus of opinion which now favours airconditioning throughout the building as earlier mentioned, but also the fact that when the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works originally considered this major building project as a whole, it did not feel that airconditioning throughout was justified, bearing in mind Sydney's quite pleasant weather for most of the year. This full airconditioning was then estimated to have cost an additional $900,000. 
We have re-examined the problem and we are now hopeful that an answer can be found at a cost of approximately $600,000. We therefore have in mind to recommend full airconditioning subject to normal Government and Public Works Committee reconsideration. 
I know nothing of  th:  alleged incident and my only comment would be that apparently the official made a mistake as far as the Party was concerned. 
 I move: 
That Mi Jarman be discharged from attendance on the Committee of Privileges, and that, in his place,  Mr Brown  be appointed a member of the Committee. 
In moving this motion I should like to explain to the House that the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  will be absent from the country on parliamentary business for the next 2 weeks. During this time the Committee of Privileges will be meeting to consider the matter referred to it on 20th April. It is considered desirable that the Committee should have available to it the services of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  who, because of his legal qualifications, can make a useful contribution to the work of this Committee. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to speak to the motion without closing the debate. 
The . Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  made a detailed statement to the House on 6th April and it is not my intention to re-traverse in detail any of the ground covered by him in that statement. There have, however, been a number of significant developments during the period since the debate on which, I feel, the House should be informed. I propose therefore to deal with these briefly in the present debate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  &lt; has moved an amendment to the statement calling on the Australian Government to recognise the People's Republic of China. 
In his address to the National Press Club on 15th April, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  drew a clear distinction between the problem of recognition of Peking and the problem of its possible admission' to the United Nations. The immediate question we face is not that of recognition but the problem of the representation of China in the United Nations. As the Prime Minister said in his address, there is likely to be a majority of the United Nations in favour of the admission of Continental China, and a majority also who would like to find a means by which the Republic of China on Taiwan could also retain its membership. That is the objective we shall be pursuing in the coming months leading to the next session of the General Assembly in September. 
The Opposition's new found interest in recognition presumably derives from the publicity that has lately been given to the Chinese invitations to Australian and American table tennis' teams, and recent, moves by the United States. What do these developments signify, and what are their implications for Australia?' First it should be noted that when  President  Nixon last week announced new relaxations of American restrictions on travel and trade with China, he said it would be premature to talk about recognition or admission to the United Nations. For their part, the Chinese authorities also seem to be making the important distinction, to which the Prime Minister referred on Tuesday, between the steps they have taken and the question of inter-state . relationships. Radio Peking's attacks on United States' policies are continuing. They are apparently hot yet showing an interest in renewing official contacts. 
The policies of the People's Republic of China affect the whole Asian region - the region in which we live. Durable peace and stability in the region require the cooperation of Peking. Our long-term policy must therefore be to 'seek a normalisation of bilateral relations with the Government of the 750 million people on the Chinese mainland. It is true that the Chinese leaders have lately been showing signs of greater interest in the development, of understanding between peoples and  in regularising their relations with certain Western and. non-aligned governments. These are developments which we are watching with close interest and attention. But in other areas, including neighbouring countries, the Chinese leaders are continuing their support for armed revolution and insurgency, and this support is material as weir as ideological. 
In considering the question of recognition, just as for the question of representation at the United Nations, we must also pay regard to the status and rights of the people of Taiwan. Peking of course, denies' that the people of Taiwan and their Government have any independent status or rights. The Australian Government could not accept courses of action which would leave 14 million people - more than the population of Australia itself - to face Communist China without recognition Jr the support of friends. To do so would also be to weaken our standing amongst Asian countries. 
To sum up, the conditions in which diplomatic recognition of Peking would be possible for the Australian Government have not yet been realised. We feel no animosity towards the Chinese people. We are conscious that they and their Government face huge domestic difficulties. We welcome the limited thaw in China's relations with the outside world made possible by Peking's interest in the development of personal exchanges. We are responsive to this interest. Within the limits the Prime Minister outlined on Tuesday, we wish to see a greater flow of trade between the 2 countries. Nevertheless, as the . Prime Minister stressed, the evolution of interstate relationships . must be a step-by-step methodical process. We hope that the positive contribution which Peking's recent moves have made to international understanding will lead on to equally positive adjustments in China's attitudes having a more direct bearing on inter-state relationships. While we shall continue to oppose what is destructive and negative in Peking's policies, we shall seek to encourage what is positive. 
I wish briefly to refer to the situation in Ceylon because events there have been moving rapidly. The series of armed attacks on Government installations and police stations throughout the country that took place on 5th April came as a surprise. The Ceylonese Government knew of the existence of groups of young dissidents who professed allegiance to principles of Marxist-Leninist thought and who had expressed dissatisfaction with the slow progress of economic and social reform in Ceylon, but armed revolt was not expected. The Government had earlier, on 16th March, declared a state of emergency, and apparently had reason to believe that its measures, including arrests and the seizure of arms caches,. had effectivity removed any such threat. But in order to contain the armed insurgency which erupted on a scale suggesting the existence of a well-organised and extensive underground movement, the Government found it necessary to turn to outside sources of assistance. 
Appeals for military aid were made to a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, the United States of America, India, the Soviet Union and Australia. Assistance has been provided principally by the United Kingdom, India and the USSR. The possibility of Australia's supplying rifles and ammunition on a commercial basis is still at this stage under discussion between the governments of Australia and Ceylon. The aid given by India and the Soviet Union involves, in both cases, the provision of military personnel from those countries. The Soviet Union has sent pilots with its helicopters and MIG 17 fighter aircraft. According to latest reports these pilots will train Ceylonese personnel. The Government of Ceylon is faced with a considerable task in restoring law and order and regaining control over areas now held by the insurgents. We cannot assess at this stage how the operation will progress, nor the length of time that foreign arms and personnel will be required by the Ceylon Government. The Australian High Commission in Colombo remains in close touch with the Ceylonese Government and will, of course, , act in what ways it can to protect Australian interests and Australian citizens in Ceylon. 
I want now to refer briefly to the situation in Pakistan. It is now one month since the martial law authorities in East Pakistan set out to restore the Government's control by force of arms, but there still appears to be no end in sight. The Pakistan armed forces have established their control in the main centres, but we continue to receive reports of bloodshed and destruction, of the flight of refugees over the borders, and of economic dislocation and hardship. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated on 6th April that Australia recognises that the situation in East Pakistan is an internal matter and that the responsibility for resolving it rests with the Government of Pakistan alone. Nevertheless, the Australian Government views the continuing bloodshed and destruction with concern and anxiety, and repeats its hope that conditions of peace, order and security will be restored as soon as possible. 
Now I deal briefly with the situation in Vietnam. On 7th April,  President  Nixon announced that a further 100,000 American troops will be withdrawn from South Vietnam between the end of the present withdrawal phase, 1st May, and 1st December. By that date the total of American troops remaining in South Vietnam will be 184,000, compared with a peak of 535,000 in early 1969. The United States Secretary of Defence,  Mr Laird,  stated in a subsequent Press conference on 13th April that United States ground combat responsibilities will be turned over to the South Vietnamese armed forces during the coming northern summer. He went on, however, to indicate that those American ground forces remaining in South Vietnam would have a continuing security or combat role in the protection of the entire remaining American force, which will include air, artillery and logistic support units. The American air and artillery support units will, of course, continue to play an important combat role in backing up the South Vietnamese armed forces. 
As the Prime Minister remarked in Brisbane on 8th April, President Nixon's announcement indicates  'the growing capacity of the Republic Of Vietnam to provide its own defence'. It follows a period of progress during which the Government of the Republic of Vietnam has increasingly shifted the responsibility for local security to regional forces whose improved performance has progressively allowed the regular armed forces- the ARVN - to undertake operations against enemy main force units, as well as to undertake cross-border operations. ARVN forces recently undertook three simultaneous large-scale operations, in the U Minh forest in the southern Delta region, in Cambodia, and in Laos. This is indicative of the degree to which the ARVN has now improved its strength. Communist forces were unable to capitalise on the massive concentration of ARVN forces in these operations by mounting significant attacks on rear areas, despite the propaganda appeal which such attacks would have had. 
Another indication of the growing Vietnamese capacity is the announcement by the Korean Foreign Minister,  Mr Choi,  on 19th April of his Government's decision to withdraw in the near future one of the Korean divisions from Vietnam leaving about 34,000 men there. In his announce ment the Korean Foreign Minister laid particular emphasis on the progress of pacification and the build-up of the combat capabilities of Vietnamese forces.  President  Nixon's refusal to set a terminal date for the total withdrawal of American forces from South Vietnam is fully supported by the Australian Government. Such a step would, as he stated, remove any incentive for the Communists to enter serious negotiations and would leave the American prisoners of war being held by the North Vietnamese as their absolute hostages. 
I did intend to refer, to some other situations that are at present creating problems in the Middle East but I see that my time has almost run out. I would conclude by saying that after carefully studying the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, under the present circumstances and at the present time the Government is unable to accept it. (Quorum formed) 
Two matters regarding civil aviation have been raised in the debate this evening. I have not got the answers to the questions which were asked, but I will see that the matters are referred to my colleague in another place and that the information is obtained as quickly as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That standing order 103 (11 o'clock rule) be suspended until the end of next month. 
It has become traditional for the Leader of the House to move this motion for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. The sittings, which began earlier than usual this year - on 16th February - are due to conclude on 6th May. The Government has a heavy programme of legislation on the notice paper and there are still several Bills to be introduced. To give the Government the necessary degree of flexibility in arranging the programme of business for the House I move the suspension of the standing order. 
As Acting Minister 1 provide the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Consultations between my Department, the Department of Education and Science, the Department of Immigration and other Commonwealth Departments involved in the training of overseas students are conducted each year through the Conference of Training Authorities. Consultations on the sponsored overseas student programmes are followed by a second annual conference' convened by the Department of Immigration on private overseas student programmes. In addition there are periodic, high level, interdepartmental consultations on external aid. Recommendations as to the modification of policy made by these . conferences are referred to Ministers. 
The supply of experts to assist in the development of national educational institutions in the developing countries, .is already a major part of Australia's technical assistance programmes. The balance between training abroad and assistance to national educational institutions within the developing countries is determined in each case on the basis of the priorities established, by the recipient government itself, depending - upon the stage reached - in the development of the educational system in each country. 
Within the Australian international training pro-  gramme, there is a balance between university training and practical training in Australian Government Departments and private industry. Of the total 2,718 scholarships and fellowships for overseas students held in 1969-70, including those continuing from previous years, 1,408 or approximately 51 per cent were for under-graduate and post-graduate courses in Australian universities. Of the total intake of 1,151 new overseas sponsored students in 1970, only 290, that is approximately 25 per cent, were for university courses. 
It is the objective of Australian technical assistance programmes to contribute to the achievement of self-reliance in the developing countries, however, in some cases it will not be possible to attain this goal for many years. Until the developing countries are able to meet their own educational requirements, I hope that Australia will continue to be able to offer opportunities for overseas students to attend our universities, either at their own expense or with the aid of our scholarships, both in order to contribute to the development of the skills available in their homelands and to maintain the contacts established between the young people of Australia and our neighbours in South East Asia, Africa and the Pacific which have contributed in a quite irreplaceable way to a real understanding of each other. 
This does not exclude the provision of aid directly to national institutions both through expert assistance and the provision of scholarships tenable in the educational institutions of the developing countries themselves and in regional institutions within South East Asia. 
The appointment of Australian graduates for short terms of service would be of limited value to institutions in the developing countries. The AustralianAsian University Aid and Co-operation Scheme for which a sum of $200,000 was appropriated in the Budget for 1970-71, provides opportunities for more realistic assistance in the secondment of experienced and qualified Australian university staff to assist in academic planning and the training of local staff of Asian universities. Opportunities also exist through the Australian Volunteers Abroad Scheme for young graduates to undertake work overseas on a voluntary basis. The scheme is administered with government support by the Overseas Service Bureau. 
It is unreal however to imagine that the educational needs of thelarge number of developing countries assisted by Australia could be satisfied over the whole range of faculties solely by the provision of Australian graduates. 
The enrolment of overseas students at Australian universities has had little effect on the admission of qualified Australian students to Australian universities. In 1969 a total of 5,594 students were enrolled at Australian universities representing 8.2 per cent of all full-time students at universities. This total consisted of 1,221 sponsored students, 3,199 students under the private overseas student programme as well as over one thousand outside these programmes. Those students outside the sponsored and private student programmes were United Kingdom, Canadian and New Zealand nationals and dependants of temporary residents such as visiting overseas businessmen and diplomats. 
It is for bachelor degree courses that Australian universities have imposed admission quotas. In 1969 a total of 3,340 overseas students studying under the private overseas student programme or Australian aid schemes were enrolled in bachelor degree courses at Australian universities. These 3,540 students represent 5.9 per cent of the total of 60,325 full-time enrolments in bachelor degree courses. In addition there were over 20,000 Australians enrolled as part-time students in bachelor degree courses in 1969. 
The February 1969 report of the National Council of the National Union of Australian University Students (now the Australian Union of Students) recognised that where restrictions on enrolments were necessary, Australian universities had a duty to the community to give priority to the education of Australian citizens, but it believed that the presence of substantial numbers of overseas students, particularly students from Asia, had in the past afforded opportunities for broadening of knowledge, interest and tolerance which it regarded as a necessary aspect of tertiary education and suggested that where there was the demand for it, 10 per cent of the total enrolment quota in each faculty in each university would be a minimum acceptable enrolment of overseas students. I commend this view. 
ColomboPlan  (Question No.  3122) 
 As Acting Minister,  I  provide the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
The Foreign Minister was unable to attend the 21st Meeting of the Colombo Plan Consultative Committee in Manila in February 1971 because of other commitments at that time and it was not possible to arrange for another Minister to attend. The Meeting coincided with the opening of the First Session of the 27th Parliament. Australia has been represented by a Minister at 5 of the past 10 Consultative Committee Meetings. 
Of the 23 member countries represented at the Conference, 13 were represented by Ministers and 10 by officials. The following is a list of the leaders of the delegations to the Conference Afghanistan - 

 Mr M. ArefGhaussi,  Deputy  Minister for Planning. 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I - have been informed that officers of the Department of Labour and National Service have had several discussions with the International Labour Office concerning matters related to ILO Convention No. 107Indigenous and Tribal Population, 1957; ' and particularly in relation to Article II of the Convention which states that "The right of ownership, collective or individual of the members of the populations concerned over the - lands which these populations traditionally occupy shall be recognised.' These discussions have helped in clarifying some points but the overall position remains as set out in the Review of Australian Law and Practice Relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference, published by the Department of Labour and National Service in October 1969. 
There are many reasons why I wish to speak in this debate on the measure to ratify the Fourth International Tin Agreement, which was negotiated in Geneva, in AprilMay of last year. The important fact is that the Agreement has been signed by all major producing countries and sufficient consuming countries to ensure it will come into force from 1st July 1971. The reason for this measure is that' the third of the 3 previous agreements on tin will terminate on 30th June this year. But the important difference is that whereas Australia, hitherto, has participated in all 3 as a consuming member country, that is, one which usually produces less tin than it consumes, this time our participation will be that of a producing member. The. encouraging fact is that we are now a net. exporter of tin, and expect to remain so for the term, of the Fourth Agreement at least. 
The broad objective of this Bill is to ensure such condition's will continue to obtain as will help to' achieve a rising rate of production of tin on the basis of a remunerative return to producers. Clearly, this would help to secure an adequate supply at prices fair to consumers, and to provide a long term equilibrium between consumption and production To achieve its objectives, the International Tin Council has as one of its mechanisms a buffer stock financed by compulsory contributions from producing members. One of the important provisions, of the Fourth Agreement is for voluntary contributions from any consuming member. The buffer stock is intended to facilitate control of short term fluctuations in the price of tin on world markets. In addition, the Council may implement, as needed, export and stock controls on producer members. This additional and basic mechanism is used to correct more deeply seated imbalance of the world market, which the buffer stocks are unable to overcome. 
Although the Fourth Agreement is substantially the same as the previous 3, it will have rather  more direct effects on Australia. Obviously, the. most significant change is the raising of our status from a consuming to a producing one. However, this in itself brings certain obligations. These are, first, to contribute to buffer stock financing and, secondly, to impose limits on tin exports and stocks when considered necessary by the International Tin Council. As distinct from the other 6 producing nations who export almost all of their production and whose obligations are based on the level of their production, Australia will be assessed only on the level of our exports rather than on production, in respect of our compulsory contribution to the buffer stock and our permissible exports when export controls are found to be necessary. I should like to stress that this was secured to recognition of Australia's unique position among producing members of consuming a large part of domestic production. 
Honourable members may wonder about how this buffer stock to which I referred, is controlled, and what are the safeguards. For their information, I might point out, that the buffer stock is managed by an officer of the International Tin Council, who operates within rules, laid down in the Agreement, with respect to prices determined by the Council. He is known as Buffer Stock Manager, or, colloquially 'BSM' I mention this because his title, or office, features frequently when clarifying the Fourth Agreement. I feel it would be best if 1 spoke first about price ranges and then on the action that will be automatically taken. Let us take first a ceiling price of Stg 1,650 a ton. I speak in Sterling because even though Britain has changed to dollars the old terminology applies for the time being. The action is: If the market price is at or above this price of Stg1,650, the BSM must sell at market price. Under the Third Agreement, he had to sell at the ceiling price. If the market price is between Stg1,540 a ton and Stg 1,650 a ton, the BSM may buy or sell, provided he is a net seller. Previously, he might only sell. If the market price is between Stg1,460 and Stg1,540 a ton, the BSM may neither sell nor buy, unless directed by Council. Similar action was required under the Third Agreement. If the market price is between St:1.350 and Stg1,460 a ton, the BSM may buy or sell tin, provided he is a net- buyer. Previously he might only buy. If the market price is at or below Stg 1,350 a ton, the BSM must buy at the floor price. He was similarly required under the Third Agreement. 
The producing countries' contribution to the buffer stock amount is aggregate to the equivalent in can or tin of 20,000 tons of tin metal. As Australia's contribution will be assessed on exports, our contribution to the buffer stock will total about $1.6m, or only about half what it would have been, if our obligations were based on production. The first instalment will be about $600,000 and is payable next July. The Commonwealth Government has agreed to bear the burden of financing Australia's contribution to the buffer stock account because of problems in ensuring that any funds collected are returned to the persons who carried the weight of the tax in the first instance. 
The fact that there are several hundreds of tin producers in Australia, the vast majority of whom produce only small quantities, and many of whom operate only intermittently, also introduced difficult problems. In providing the finance, the Commonwealth simplifies matters in several ways: First, administrative difficulties will be avoided, and no administrative cost will be incurred; secondly, the Commonwealth will retain the money on the liquidation of the buffer stock 5 years later, and, thirdly, the Commonwealth can expect to earn a return approximating the long term bond rate, currently 7 per cent. As part of objectives to stop extreme price fluctuations, the International Tin Council may require 'producing' members, such as Australia, to exercise some form of control over exports and stocks. Although we were a 'consuming' member, Australia, at the request of the Tin Council, maintained export controls between December 1968 and December 1969 because our production had increased significantly over the previous 3 years. Our action was quite voluntary, and was undertaken in a spirit of reasonable membership. Under the new - Fourth - Agreement, such actions, if required, will be obligatory and our quotas will be related to past export performance. 
At the first review, our export performance will be taken as a minimum of 4,572 metric tons. 
 The Australian tin producing industry is an important one for Australia, especially in particular areas. For instance, the total value of mine production in the calendar year 1969 was $21.3m and on the same pricing basis our likely production would be worth about 25 per cent more, in 5 years from now. The value of tin exported as metal, and as tin-in-concentrates in 1969- 70 totalled $ 12.2m, and in 10 years is forecast on a realistic basis at $25m. Moreover, the tin industry provides a necessary economic base for a number of communities, in Queensland, New South Wales, Tasmania, and West Australia. While many producing units are small and spread over many communities, they rate significantly, in the list of producers of major economic importance in their districts. I. could quote instances, such as Tableland Tin Dredging and Ravenshoe Tin Dredging, on the Atherton Tablelands of Queensland; Ardlethan Tin, Gibsonvale Alluvials and Tullabong Tin in New South Wales; Renison Limited, Cleveland Tin, Aberfoyle Tin and Storeys Creek Tin Mining in Tasmania; and Pilbara Tin and Greenbushes Tin in Western Australia. All these firms provide solid economic support for the communities, in which they operate. In addition, there are over 300 smaller producers, who contribute to a total Australian production of 7,947 tons of tin. The end result of all this industry, enterprise and endeavour, is that, since 1960, Australia's position has changed, from being a net importer of 1,708 tons of tin, valued at $3.4m, to a net exporter in 1970, of 4,673 tons, valued at $14m. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) 1 am not aware of any experiment which may have been conducted in New Zealand on the manufacture  of  heavy water 
Until there is a specific proposal for the manufacture of heavy water in New Zealand it will not be possible  to  comment realistically on the likely cost  of  production. 
The costs  of  the heavy water inventories for the reactors tendered for the proposed Jervis Bay station are  of  course still confidential information. However, an idea  of  the costs may be gained from the fact that a 500 MWe CANDU requires some 400 tons  of  heavy water, while a SGHWR of the same capacity requires in excess of 100 tons. The price recently paid for heavy water is around $30/lb. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No attempt has been made to produce enriched uranium commercially in Australia. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has been engaged in research and development relating to the centrifuge method for enrichment, with satisfactory results. 
PHW Reactor (Question No. 2831) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To the best of my knowledge, Argentina has not officially disclosed its reasons for selecting  a  PHW reactor for the Atucha Station nor would 1 propose to seek such information. 
As Acting Minister, I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The terms of both the Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Convention on Consular Relations were such that Australia could give effect to them only after the enactment of legislation. Of the two, priority was given to Australia's becoming a party to the former Convention. Legislation for this purpose was enacted in 1967 and Australia became a party in 1968. The scope of legislation needed to give effect to the Convention on Consular Relations is at present under examination. 
As. Acting Minister, I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Various organisations in Australia celebrate 10th April 1941 asthe date of Croatian independence. On 6th April 1941, Hitler attacked Yugoslavia as a prelude to its subsequent occupation and dismemberment As part of this operation on 10th April 1941 the Germans created a puppet Croatian state, dominated by the Ustasha terrorist movement under Ante Pavelic, who had until then been an exile in Italy. The victory of the Yugoslav Resistance in the war against Germany put an end to the so-called Independent State of Croatia. 
No. 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Hong Kong is a British Crown Colony. There is no British Consul-General in Hong Kong. 
and  (3)  do not therefore apply. 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Departments of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Defence, the Treasury and Trade and Industry are represented on the Inter-Departmental Committee on Japan. Other Departments are invited to participate in its discussions as appropriate. 
The terms of reference of the Committee are to make recommendations regarding Australian policies towards Japan and their coordination. 
The Committee held its first meeting on 8th June 1970. 
This is a matter which is handled directly by my colleague in another place, the Minister for Supply, but I am pleased to say that we have had the utmost co-operation in this field. We have been able, through the Division of National Mapping in my Department, . to secure a number of maps which have been most useful for this purpose. Although the maps produced are, generally speaking, more suitable for meteorological purposes there are some that can be utilised for geological and geophysical work. In fact, we are using some maps obtained from NASA for this purpose, but I will check to find out more details regarding this matter and will inform the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
1 am having inquiries made as to what information ean be obtained, and, as soon as I have this information, I will pass it on to the honourable member. 
I believe that the honourable member is referring to a . letter which has been circulated to most honourable members. I received a copy of a letter last week in relation to this matter and some inquiries have been made. As yet, they have not been finalised and when I have the result of the investigations, I will let the honourable member know. However, I think that we would all agree that it is not desirable, in the circumstances that the honourable member has mentioned, that pressure of this type should be brought to bear in a country such as Australia where democratic principles do apply. Whatever can be done to resist this type of pressure certainly will be done. However, when the investigations have been completed I will let the honourable member know. 
I had intended to issue a Press release on this subject this afternoon, so this will save me that trouble. It is a fact that we are to close the consulate at Dili in Portuguese Timor. There are a number of reasons why we are doing so. Firstly, the work load there has been very light for some considerable time. Secondly, the building needs substantial maintenance and would cost, I think, about $80,000 to rebuild to a reasonable standard. Thirdly - this is the most important point - we now have opened an embassy in Lisbon which we believe will maintain closer association with the Portuguese Government and will be able to undertake substantially the work that had been handled previously by the consulate. For those reasons we have decided to close the Dili establishment. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Publications Committee, or any subcommittee thereof, when conferring with a similar committee or sub-committee of the Senate, have power to move from place to place. 
Amendments, made in 1970 to House of Representatives standing order No. 28 and Senate standing order No. 36 gave the Publications Committee board powers of inquiry. However, the Committee does not have the power to move from place to place. The power is required initially to enable the Committee to inspect the new Australian Government Publishing Service Printing Office, the Department of Supply Central Drawing Office and the PostmasterGeneral's Department printing works in Melbourne during the winter adjournment. It is expected that the need will again arise from time to time for the Committee to move from place to place in the course of its inquiries. A similar motion, relating to the Senate Publications Committee, is to be moved by the Leader of the Government in that House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, generating costs are not 'considerably lower'. As explained in the answer to Question 1288 the fuel cost of enriched uranium fuelled reactors is normally higher than that of natural uranium fuelled reactors. This difference, however, is roughly counterbalanced by the higher capital costs of natural uranium reactors. (Annual capital charges are normally included in generating costs.) 
It is not practicable to tabulate comparative generating costs of reactors established throughout the world to provide a valid comparison based on the fuel used. Many factors additional to fuel are involved. If, nevertheless, we were to consider costs of two hypothetical reactors to be constructed in Australia on the one site, of identical sizes and having the same interest rates, one being designed for enriched and the other designed for natural uranium fuel, it is thought that the difference in generating costs would not be considerable unless there was a marked difference in the keenness of the competitive attitudes of the tenderers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preparation of the report was commenced at the beginning of 1970. 
Approximately 10 months. 
October 1970. 
It is not the usual practice to disclose details of the considerations of interdepartmental committees or of the composition of such committees. 
and (6) No final decision has been made regarding this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
North Vietnam has consistently rejected all offers, made either in public statements or at the Paris Peace Talks, by the Governments both of the United States of America and of the Republic of Vietnam for the exchange of prisoners of war. 
There is no evidence to suggest that the North Vietnamese rejection of. any of these offers was made on the grounds stated. Indeed the North Vietnamese regime has always denied, and continues to deny, that it has troops fighting in the Republic of Vietnam, even though members of the North Vietnamese armed forces have been captured in the Republic carrying papers identifying them as such. It is presumably for this reason that Hanoi has always been reluctant to agree even to the unilateral repatriation by the Republic of Vietnam of North Vietnamese prisoners of war, including injured prisoners. 
Not only the International Red Cross but many Governments and non-governmental bodies from many countries have made repeated representations to Hanoi about the treatment of prisoners of war, including proposals for the repatriation or the mutual exchange of prisoners of war, or for the transfer of prisoners of war to a neutral zone or country. North Vietnam has consistently repudiated all such approaches. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware  of  any claims made by property owners against the Commonwealth for compensation for damages suffered as a result of the attack on the Consulate-General of Yugoslavia on 21st October 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The legislation of Queensland and the Australian Capital Territory now satisfies the requirements of the 1950 Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others and Final Protocol. 
All of the States replied to the Common-' wealth's letter of 18th July 1968, in the months of July and August 1968. 
12th June 1969. Economic and Social Council resolution 961 (b) (XXXVI) requests that this information be provided on a two-yearly basis. Following further inquiries of the States, information was again submitted to the Secretary-General on 3rd December 1970. 
Discussions about legislation in Queensland and Western Australia have dealt specifically with provisions which discriminate against Aboriginal Australians rather than generally with laws which do not satisfy the requirements of the 1965 International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. The issue was discussed generally with all States at the meetings of Commonwealth and State Ministers and officials in Sydney in March 1970. It was then agreed that the matter should be pursued in bilateral discussions between the Commonwealth and the two States concerned. The Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs met the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Brisbane on 8th June 1970 for preliminary discussions. In accordance with the agreement reached then, and after an exchange of correspondence, discussions were held in Brisbane at the level of officials on 11th November 1970. It was then agreed that the Queensland authorities would discuss proposals for changes in the legislation at meetings with representatives of Aboriginal and Islander communities. Consultation is continuing at the level of officials. The Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs corresponded last year with the Minister for Native Welfare in Western Australia about the amendment of discriminatory provisions in legislation affecting Aborigines. Consultations will be continued. 
The position remains as set out in my reply of 19th March 1970. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has raised this matter. I do not know whether or not he discussed it with his Party, but we certainly did not know that the matter was to be raised today. However, this motion is within the procedures of the House and it is accepted as such. As the honourable member knows from past experience - he was in this House previously - it has been the custom over the years to have this limitation on the period of question time. The times which he quoted showed some variation but, as near as possible, for some considerable number of years the period allotted to cover this part of the business programme in the parliamentary day has been 45 minutes. 
This matter was raised by the honourable member for Chifley only a week or so ago. I drew his attention at that time to the problem of petitions which apparently he has in mind in relation to this question. In this first part of the parliamentary business programme during last year and continuing now a considerable number of petitions has been presented in the period set aside for question time. I suggested that this perhaps was a matter that could be considered by the Standing Orders Committee to determine whether or not the time allotted for petitions should be included in the period allowed for question time. This would need to be referred to the Standing Orders Committee on a substantive motion. 
The honourable member did quote references to times allowed for questions without notice. I think that the times were of fairly recent origin. I have some statistics here referring to the years 1954, 1955 and 1956 and . also for the years 1962, 1963 and 1967. It is interesting to go through the figures for these years to see the variations that occurred. Taking as a sample the Budget session from August to September in 1954, we see that there was one period only in which the time allowed for questions went beyond 45 minutes; question time lasted for 46 minutes. On 4 other occasions the period taken up by question time was well below 45 minutes. Between May and September in 1955, on 3 occasions question time exceeded 45 minutes and on 4 occasions was below 45 minutes.  
In 1965, between March and October, the periods allowed for question time were most consistent. On one occasion during that period question time was one minute in excess of 45. minutes. From April to November in 1962, the same pattern appears. At no time during that period did this part of the parliamentary programme exceed 45 minutes. In 1963, the same sort of pattern applied. There was no period in the sample months that were taken when question time went beyond 45 minutes. From March to November 1967, on only one day did . question time go beyond the 45 minutes allowed for that part of the parliamentary programme. I quote these figures merely to show that the limitation of question time to 45 minutes has been traditional and is a practice which has been applied in. the general sense. 
I return to the point that the duration of question time is within the discretion of the Prime Minister. This has been the tradition of the House over the years. The honourable member, for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  did refer to the subject of question time being referred to the Standing Orders Committee as a direct question for consideration. But the honourable member knows also that the tradition over the year? - in fact, I think since the commencement of this Parliament - has been that the termination of question time is at the discretion of the Prime Minister. - 
I turn again to the inclusion of petitions in the period allowed for question time. The period of 45 minutes to which I have been referring applies from the. time of the convening of the House. The programme on the notice paper, to which I have continually referred, includes prayers, petitions, notices and then questions without notice. These matters have always been taken together and have generally been dealt with in the period of 45 minutes. Surely if there is a problem as to whether or not questions should be concluded in the period of 45 minutes an honourable member should refer it to his own Party for discussion and ensure that, if it is to be referred to the Standing Orders Committee, a substantive motion is brought before the House on behalf of his Party in a responsible way. No doubt the time taken up by petitions could be considered in those circumstances. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh referred to a general examination of the procedures of the House being made by the Standing Orders Committee. He knows that last year the Committee met for a quite substantial period of time and brought down a series of recommendations which were voted on in this House. A very substantial review was made by the Committee only last year. In fact, a number of residual matters which were referred by the Committee to this House are still on the notice paper. I have referred to the procedures and to the times that have been allocated. As I am sure,  Mr- Speaker,  that the Opposition would not want me to waste the time of the House in discussing this matter further, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on the Ministers of State Bill 1971, 1 would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the ministerial statement relating to Assistant Ministers. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Orders of the Day to be discussed together. 
 I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971, United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1971, Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill 1971, Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill 1971, Seamen's Compensation Bill 1971, Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971, Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971, Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971, States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1971, Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill 1971, Papua and New Guinea Bill 1971, Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1971, Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill 1971, Superannuation Bill 1970, Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970. Trade Practices Bill 1971 and Wool Industry Bill 1971. 
I will refer to these matters when the motion to declare the Bills urgent Bills comes before the House. 
I hesitate to do this at this point of time, but we must move on to the substantive motion. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 I was very interested to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  refer, in certain terms, to the statement which was circulated earlier today. So far I have not had an opportunity to move the motion which is contained in that statement and to present the statement to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has referred, but I hope to be able to do so very shortly. Perhaps the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition then can make his comments on the statement within the Standing Orders. Over the years, all honourable members have had the opportunity of listening to comments by the Opposition - when I say the Opposition perhaps I could refer to the Government Parties when they were in Opposition - in the closing stages of a sitting complaining about not having the opportunity to debate measures and being restricted in the time allowed for speeches because of reduced debating time. Of course, these complaints become quite familiar. 
Today, as they have done in the past, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  repeated references to matters of this nature and, of course, we all have complete sympathy for them. No doubt, if at some distant time in the future I bold the position of  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - this would be in my old age - I will say exactly the same sort of thing. But the point that should be made is that one could gain the impression that this particular session had been truncated and that the debating time had been reduced to a comparatively low level having regard to other sessions and that thereby the Opposition was being prevented from debating motions and Bills before the House. I will be referring to this matter when we deal with the substantive motion which I shall move later. 
It is interesting to note that the average number of sitting days for the autumn session of this Parliament is about 28 or 29 days with an exception last year when, because of certain circumstances, the session went a little longer. I shall refer to that later. It is also interesting to note that toy Thursday we will have been sitting for 31 days in this session. In other words, the number of sitting days for this session, which as honourable members know started earlier this year in the middle of February, will be greater than for the average autumn session. I think that this should be recognised, because one could gather from the comments that have been made by the mover and seconder of themotion that, in fact, the Government had been cutting down on the number of sitting days when, in fact, the number of sitting days is above the average. I cannot inform the House what the final number of hours will be. I can mention only that supper has been ordered for tonight and tomorrow night. Allowing for the additional days and for what I believe will be sufficient debating time for the measures that are before the House, the number of hours for this session can be equated with the average for recent years. I should also like to draw attention to the fact that whilst, when I get the opportunity to move it, the substantive motion will be referring to 17 measures it refers to only 8 matters. 
There will be cognate debates on a number of matters where the substantive pieces of legislation deal with machinery amendments to a number of other Bills. 
1 am not worried,  Mr Speaker.  I can speak loudly enough to overcome that disability. 
The point I was making is that, whilst 17 Bills are referred to, there are only 8 actual matters to be concluded in a matter of another 2 days and 2 nights. This is in addition to the time available tonight to debate the matters that are on the blue paper. The times that, have been allocated in the paper, which I hope to be presenting shortly, will not be too far out when compared with the debating time that is normally allowed for such measures. As the Deputy Leader of the Opposition knows, we did discuss these matters earlier. It is quite proper that Opposition members should react and respond as they have done on this particular occasion. 
This perhaps indicates, I suppose, the difference between our Parties and the Opposition Party. Members on our side of the House can object and can, on a matter of principle in which they firmly believe, not support a motion, but we have seen the fate of a member of the Opposition who adopted that same attitude. I should like to make just 2 final points on this motion, with which we do not agree. The first is that reference was made to the compensation Bills and the time allowed for their debate. I do not think the comments were exactly fair, because the original intention was that these measures - the Bills concerned with compensation - would, in fact, remain on the notice paper until the Budget session. I had informed the Opposition of this. I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, whom I know to be a fair and reasonable man, will admit that we discussed this and agreed to bring forward these Bills because the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  indicated that he wanted them brought forward and, in the special circumstances, intimated that he would require only a certain amount of lime. 
I shall not refer to that matter again except to say that this was done by arrangement with the Opposition. About 5 Bills would not be on the list but for the special request of the honourable member for Hindmarsh. The Government agreed to bring the Bills on for that reason and it is a desire, within the Opposition, that they be passed. I might say that the honourable member for Hindmarsh had a good ally in the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who also wanted this course to be followed, but this had not been the original intention. I merely explain this because the time allocated for the debate on those measures was questioned. 
The second matter I want to mention concerns my colleague, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes).  Tonight, on the blue paper, provision is made for a cognate debate on a ministerial statement dealing with Papua New Guinea and the Papua and New Guinea Bill. A certain amount of time has been allocated for this debate in the statement which I will present to the House shortly. This time has been queried by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and other honourable members. The Leader of the Opposition said that only half an hour had been allotted for debate on the Bill but, by arrangement, because I think the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was anxious to have a cognate debate on the statement and the Bill, a cognate debate will take place and the time allocated will be sufficient for the 8 speakers who have indicated that they want to speak on this matter. That is why only half an hour was allowed for debate on the Bill but it has nothing to do with the total time. It was at the special request of the Opposition that a cognate debate was arranged and the Government was pleased to accede to the request. I conclude by saying that whilst I appreciate the sentiments that have been expressed by the Opposition, in view of all the circumstances the Government cannot agree to the motion. 
1 declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employers) Bill 1971. 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of 17 Bills. 
I do not know whether I am allowed to do this but I will do it: I suggest that the  Clerk  remain seated while I take this point of order.  Mr Speaker,  in this House the Opposition has to rely on what we on this side can find out for ourselves. When I rose to speak on this point of order the  Clerk  rose from his chair to give you instructions. I am asking you,  Mr Speaker,  to rule on my point of order on the basis of the arguments I will put to you. I cannot see thai you have the right to any further assistance than is available to honourable members on this side of the House. I take the point that the Leader of the House moved for the suspension of the Standing Orders in order to allow one declaration of urgency and to move one motion for the allotment of time in respect of 17 Bills. That motion was carried and immediately after it was carried the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  moved for a further suspension of the Standing Orders to require this Parliament to sit for another 2 weeks. Let me quote the relevant Standing Orders under the heading 'Suspension'. They are:  399. In cases of necessity, any standing or sessional order or orders of the House may be suspended, on motion, duly moved and seconded, without notice: Provided that such motion is car ried by an absolute majority of Members Having full voting rights. 400. When a motion for the suspension of any standing or sessional order or orders appears on the Notice Paper, such motion may be carried by a majority of votes. 401. The suspension of standing orders is limited in its operation to the particular purpose for which such suspension has been sought 402. The whole of these standing  orders  shall continue in force until altered, amended, or repealed.  1 submit that when the Leader of the House moved for the suspension of Standing Orders he did so for a specific purpose and that was to declare the 17 Bills urgent Bills. He had the right to do that but by not making the declaration at that time he forewent that right. No meeting, once it has suspended its standing orders, can move on to any other business until the purpose of the suspension has been completed. Yet tonight we had one suspension carried. The substantive motion for which that suspension had been moved was not put. 
Admittedly the motion of the honourable member for Sturt was defeated but let us have a look at the position in which the Parliament would have been placed had his motion been carried. We would have had one motion carried for the suspension of the Standing Orders so as to declare 17 Bills urgent Bills and a further motion carried requiring the Parliament to sit for another fortnight. Upon the declaration of the 17 Bills to be urgent Bills there would not have been sufficient business listed on the notice paper to keep this Parliament going beyond Thursday. We could not have survived for the fortnight. The Parliament was placed in the position of having 2 motions for the suspension crf Standing Orders and if they had been carried the second motion to enable this House to sit for another fortnight could not have been put into operation. I want to quote to the House from the House of Representatives publication 'A Short Description of Business and Procedures'. Under the heading Suspension' on page 3 it reads: 
It is not unusual in the functioning of the House for it to be found necessary to suspend standing orders or a particular standing order to permit certain action to be taken. Common instances are to grant unlimited or extended time for particular speeches, the introduction of particular Bills without notice and their passage without delay, the consideration of some Bills together, the introduction of new business after 11 p.m., etc. . . 
The standing orders may only be suspended by motion and this is usually in one of the following forms: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent- . . . 
That standing order ... be suspended for the remainder of the session. . 
A motion of this nature may be moved by any member without notice, but to 'bs passed must be carried by an absolute  majojrity  of members having full voting rights. (The present House has 125 full voting members - an absolute majority of which is 63.) If the motion has been moved pursuant to notice, or with the leave of the House, it may be carried by a simple majority of members present. (S.O.'s 399-401) 
Last night after the motion for the adjournment of the House had been moved the  Clerk  rose and gave notice that today the Leader of the House would move for the suspension of the Standing Orders to declare 17 Bills urgent Bills. I submit that it is up to you,  Mr Speaker.  The Government is not taking any notice df the Parliament. The Government is riding roughshod over the Opposition and you, too,  Mr Speaker. 
No. I am about to start. I wanted to give the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  an Opportunity to speak. I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill  1971 
United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill  1971 
Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill  1971 
Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill  1971 
Seamen's Compensation Bill  1971 
Income Tax Assessment Bill (No.  2) 1971 
Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill  1971 
Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill  1971 
States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill  1971 
Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill  1971 
Papua and New Guinea Bill  1971 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill  1971 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment 
Bill 1971 
Superannuation Bill  1970 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No.  2) 1970 
Trade Practices Bill  1971 
Wool Industry Bill  1971. 
 Whilst I appreciate what has been expressed by the two honourable members opposite, I am afraid 1 cannot accept the motion as it stands. This matter is related to the Standing Orders, and the Standing Orders are quite clear. They lay down that, when the question is put before the House that Bills be considered urgent Bills, no debate or amendment is allowed at that point of time. That is quite clear. Then, of course, the Minister in charge of the House at the time moves a motion allotting the actual time for the debate of the Bills that have been declared urgent. In this case the time has been circulated. Again the debate takes place at that point of time. I think the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  is waiting to commence the debate. Certainly it is limited. The limitation is imposed by the Standing Orders. If there is any suggestion that further time would be required in these circumstances, it is open to the members of the House, through their own parties, to submit the matter to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration. But I suggest that the Standing Orders as they stand must apply in this case. 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971 
For the second reading, 1 hour; 
For the remaining stages, 1 hour. 
United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1971 - For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, S minutes. 
Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Seamen's Compensation Bill 1971  -  For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971 - 
For the second reading, 1 hour; 
For the remaining stages, 30 minutes. 
Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971 - For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 4 hours; 
For the remaining stages, 5 minutes. 
Loan . (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Papua and New Guinea Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 30 minutes; 
For the remaining stages, 5 minutes. 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 40 minutes; 
For the remaining stages, 5 minutes. 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Superannuation Bill 1970- 
For the second reading, 1 hour; 
For the remaining stages, li hours. 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970- 
For the second reading, 30 minutes; 
For the remaining stages, 5 minutes. 
Trade Practices j Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 2i hours; 
For the remaining stages, li hours. 
Wool Industry Bill 197 1&gt;- 
For the second reading, 2 hours; 
For the remaining stages, 30 minutes. 
There are 17 Bills which will be the subject of this motion. However, because there will be cognate debate on several of the Bills, the time limit in fact applies to only 8 separate debates. In addition, 3 or 4 new Bills are to be introduced before the House rises, these Bills not being included in the present proposals. The programme of revised meeting times makes some 25 hours available for discussion of the legislation regarded by the Government as essential for passage during the remainder of this week. Discussions have been held with the Opposition regarding the time for debates, seen as important by both sides of the House, within the maximum sitting time available for the rest of this week. 
The motion I have moved seems to the Government to give the best opportunity  for maximum consideration of all the legislation affected.  I  may say here - and I will repeat to some extent what I have said before - that the House in 1971 has (at for about as many hours as is usual for an autumn period  of  sittings. Last year, the House sat on 38 days totalling 398 hours, and this was due especially to the fact that there had been a House of Representatives election at the end  of  the previous year, with a number  of  measures from that period being left over  to  be considered. I will now give figures for more average years. In 1969, the House sat on 29 days for a total of 292 hours; and in 1968, it sat for 28 days, totalling 293 hours. By the end of this sitting, it is expecttd that the House will have sat on 31 days for a period well over 270 hours. As I say, at present that figure is only a rough estimate because we are not yet quite sure  of  the number of hours; however, present indications are that we will sit for well over 270 hours. 
Last year, 56 Bills were passed during the autumn sitting. In 1969, 5 Bills were passed; and in 1964, 64 Bills were passed. This year some 44 Bills are. expected to have been passed by the end of this week. Therefore, it will be seen that during the sittings an average number of days and hours has been spent considering legislation and other matters. In relation to the total time that has been made available, fewer Bills have been dealt with in this period than were dealt with during the sittings in the previous 3 years. Every possible opportunity has been given to the Opposition to propose for discussion matters of public importance; I am sure that the House will agree that there have been a good many other motions designed to give Opposition members plenty of opportunity to express their points of view. Moreover, the Government has never sought to prevent general business being called on throughout the whole of this period of sittings, but has allowed it to be dealt with during the period of these sittings. Also, until this week, the provision for Grievance Day has been fully availed of as well. 
As has been said in previous debates today, 7 or 8 Bills will be introduced and dealt with to the second reading stage - some are already on the notice paper and some will come on later - and will remain on the notice paper to be considered during the Budget session. As all honourable members know, this is a normal practice - although it was questioned tonight - which, to my knowledge, has been followed every year since this Parliament has met. One reason for this is that during the first week of the Budget sittings, after the Budget is introduced on the Tuesday evening the debate is then adjourned to enable Opposition members to have the opportunity to study budgetary matters so that they can commence the Budget debate the following week; so there is an opportunity during the first week of the Budget session for full consideration to be given to matters left on the notice paper. Therefore, it has been the practice to allow some business to remain for consideration during the first week. This practice is being adopted again on this occasion. In conclusion, I ask honourable members to note these facts when considering this motion. 
No decision has been made regarding the future use of Essendon Airport although this matter has been carefully discussed at great length over recent months and indeed perhaps going back further than that. It has been in mind that when regular public transport operations are finally transferred to Tullamarine - I think the honourable member knows that international operations have already commenced at Tullamarine - greater use could be made of Essendon by general aviation. There have been strong demands from, the general aviation industry to use Essendon Airport but no decision has yet been made on this matter. It is subject to a very close and careful review not only in relation to the future use of Essendon Airport, which must of course conform in all respects to Government aviation policy, but also in regard to costs. These matters are under very careful study at the present time. I understand that my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation in another place will, when he is in a position, tb do so, make an announcement regarding this matter. 
I will see that the honourable member's question is referred to my colleague in another place. However, I think I can take the opportunity to say categorically that air traffic control procedures in Australia are the strictest in the world and the most rigidly applied. If there exist any problems of this type in which air traffic control procedures are hot observed in other countries, they will be observed in Australia. I think that on behalf of my colleague, I can give an assurance in that regard. However, I will see that the question is referred to my colleague and that, any additional information will be given- to the honourable member. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Since engines, when removed from one aircraft, may be installed in another, it is difficult at this time to refer to the number of aircraft which have been completely fitted with engines with reduced smoke combustion chambers. However, Ansett Airlines of Australia have modified 11 Pratt and Whitney JT8D engines and TransAustralia Airlines have modified 9. Qantas do not operate Pratt and Whitney JT8D engines and no reduced smoke combustion chamber for the Pratt and Whitney JT3D engine (as installed in the Boeing 707) is available. Pratt and Whitney, the engine manufacturers, have work in hand to develop a reduced smoke combustion chamber for the JT3D but are not yet able to forecast its availability. 
Ansett Airlines and Trans-Australia Airlines both now have 53 Pratt and Whitney JT8D engines. Each has therefore modified about 20 per cent of its fleet. 
Each company began its modifications in June 1970. 
It was originally anticipated that all the Pratt and Whitney JT8D engines operated by each company would be modified by the end of 1972 but because of a lack of supply of the nec essary parts from the USA, it is now considered that the programme will not be complete until mid-1973. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Since Recommendation 19 of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise was framed, the operational requirements for a noise monitoring installation at Sydney Airport have been completed and a detailed equipment specification has been drawn up. 
It is proposed to call tenders shortly with the object of noise monitoring equipment, which will be suitable for the needs at Sydney Airport for many years to come, being installed by mid-1972. - 
We have not been able to proceed any further than the introduction of one Bill. There are still 2 other Bills to be introduced. So, in view of the circumstances, I think that the debate on this particular issue has proceeded long enough and that we are merely taking up now time that could be devoted to the consideration of the Bills themselves. I therefore move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
I raise a point of order.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  before the honourable member moved his motion you had called on Government Business No. 3. It had been read by the  Clerk,  and you had called it on. 
I think that I should put the record straight regarding some of the matters to which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has referred. The question of the introduction of these 3 Bills was referred to the Opposition on the day before yesterday. It was indicated that they would be considered by the legislation committee at the earliest opportunity, which was yesterday morning. It was arranged that, immediately they had been approved by the legislation committee, copies of the draft Bills would be sent to members of the Opposition who were to meet at 9.30 a.m. 
There is only 1 point I wish to make. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  mentioned that when the motion for the guillotine was before the House no reference was made to the fact that other Bills were to be introduced. I would like to correct that statement. I am sure he has made a genuine error in saying that because in my comments at the time in relation to the introduction of the motion I did indicate that there was a certain number of Bills, which were not specified at that time, to be presented. This matter had been discussed with the Opposition at the time. I will not repeat what I said earlier. At the earliest possible opportunity the Bills were given to the Opposition for consideration. Whilst I appreciate the problems that have been outlined in association with them, it is important for them to be passed during this sitting. Reasons have been given in relation to the number of days and the number of hours, and why the sitting is to terminate at the specified time. 
I also draw attention to the fact that the comments which are being made tonight are familiar to most of us in this House. They are made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at the end of each sitting, and I have no doubt that anyone in opposition at such a time would make similar comments. The Government cannot accept the motion that has been proposed. 
In view of the fact that Opposition members have indicated that they do not wish to hear what I have to say, I move: 
This is a fairly good demonstration of delaying tactics by the Opposition. 
Motion (by  Mr Bryant)  put: 
That the Minister be not further heard.  (Mr Deputy Speaker - Mr E. N. Drury)  Ayes ... . . . . 51 
Noes . . . . . . 57 
Majority .. .. 6 

<graphic href="072131197105052_129_15_5_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197105052_129_15_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197105052_129_15_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197105052_129_15_4_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197105052_129_15_6_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197105052_129_15_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
This is certainly a very interesting subject. I am afraid I have no personal knowledge as to whether a new type of uniform for Qantas hostesses is in contemplation, but I will certainly interest myself in the matter raised by the honourable member and see whether I can obtain some information for him. 
 I move: 
That Standing Order 399 be suspended for the remainder of this period of sittings, except when a motion is moved pursuant to the standing order by a Minister.  (Quorum formed).  Mr Speaker,  I merely wish to comment that this motion is necessary for the orderly conduct of the business of the House. 
 Mr Speaker- 
That the honourable member  for  Hindmarsh be heard. 
The first point that should be made is that the Government does not accept this amendment as a motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I think that when one examines the wording of the amendment one can fully appreciate that it is merely part of the programme which I think, understandably, has been in operation over the last 2 days. There is one way in which the . Opposition can get on with the business of the House- 
Debate interrupted. 
-Parting Downs- Leader of the House) (2.56) - I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the- 
I will start again. I move: 
That thetime allotted in connection with the Trade Practices Bill 1971, the Wool Industry Bill 1971, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971, the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1971, the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill 1971, the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill 1971- 
The motion continues: 
. Seamen's Compensation Bill 1971, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971, the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971- 
The motion continues:  . . Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971, the Superannuation Bill 1970 and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970 be varied in accordance with the list that has been circulated to honourable members with the addition of 30 minutes to each time. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in regard to this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have general debate covering this Bill, the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill, and the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill, as they are associated measures. Of course, separate questions may be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  I suggest that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See answer to Question No. 3106. 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See answer to Question No. 3106. 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable members question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answers given by the Prime Minister to the questions aked without notice on 22nd April 1971 by the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable the Leader of the Opposition. 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See (1). The Minister for Foreign Affairs has not made the public comparison referred to in (b). 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. The information is being sought but will not be available until after the Parliament rises. 
 As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to honourable member's question: 
Information of this kind has not been conveyed  to  the Secretary-General. General Assembly resolution 2S44 (XXIV) requested Governments to inform the Secretary-General of the programme and activities undertaken during the year. Consideration will be given to the provision of this information later in the year when such programmes and activities are more advanced. 
The honourable member is referred to the answer to part 4 of Question 2303. 
Forty-eight countries have ratified or acceded to the Convention. They are as follows: 
As Acting Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2440 (XXI II) of 19th December 1968 on the Report of the Ad Hoc Working Group of Experts on the Treatment of Political Prisoners in South Africa inter alia called for the release of Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe. 

 Mr Sobukwe was released from detention on 13th May 1969 and immediately placed under bouse arrest in Kimberley. In March 1971  Mr Sobukwe's  application for an exit permit was approved by the South African Minister of the Interior who said that, as Minister for the Interior, he had no power to refuse an exit permit to a restricted person who wished to leave South Africa permanently. However, the Minister of Justice has refused to lift the restriction order to enable Sobukwe to leave Kimberley and hence South Africa. 
No.  Mr Sobukwe  has given notice of intention to bring an action in the Supreme Court to compel the Minister of Justice to lift the order restricting him to Kimberley. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Kalgoorlie and Boulder Councils asked that consideration be given to moving the aerodrome, bearing in mind that the existing aerodrome occupies the only area into which the city may now expand. 
and (4) It will be appreciated that these answers can only be provided' after quite detailed and time-consuming 'study in close co-operation with the State . and Local Government planning authorities. If may be some time before precise answers can be provided. 
-The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided, this following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
. The work . will, require less than' 6 months and the starting, date, will be influenced by what is finally decided in respect of our 1971-72 Works Programme Australia-wide. 
The modifications to the building will almost double the space available for passengers and their friends. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
There is crowding during peak periods in the car park at Kalgoorlie Airport. It is not dangerous provided drivers exercise normal caution within the relatively confined space that is characteristic of any car park. 
Consideration is being given to extending the car park and there will be due regard to the suggestion to provide a clear walkway for pedestrians. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The modernisation of Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport in its present form took place over the 10 years 1946-1955. In addition, the following major projects have been approved since 1951: 
Extension of the 16/34 runway to 8,500 feet (1963). 
Ground preparation for Instrument Landing Systems (1965). 
Site preparation in the north-west building area (1965). 
Operations and control tower building (1965). 
Buildings and services for international terminal complex (1965). 
Extension of the 16/34 runway to 13,000 feet (1968). 
All of the above projects were referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and were the subject of public hearings. Both State and Local Authority representatives appeared at three of the- hearings; the State was not represented on the Instrument Landing Systems or Operations and Control Tower building hearings and the Local Authorities were not represented at the site preparation in the northwest building area hearing. 
No. 
and (6) These studies are being undertaken in close consultation with the State Planning Authorities and any major projects which are approved as a result will be the subject of the normal Parliamentary Works Committee hearings. 
Yes. In these situations Qantas is subject to the usual Local Government regulations. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Charter Flights 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to  the  honourable member's question: 
The Department, in co-operation with the State and Brisbane City representatives, is currently revising the master plan for Brisbane Airport and it is expected that the need for a new terminal area to cater for both international and domestic aircraft, passenger and freight handling will be confirmed. 
However, this involves a detailed and necessarily time-consuming study which has nevertheless been given high priority by both the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
Immediately that study is completeed we will be in a position to more specifically consider what needs to be done and the possible timing of some major airport developments. 
At present, there are eight inward and eight outward movements of international flights at Brisbane Airport. Of the total of sixteen movements ten are performed by Boeing 707's four by DC8's and two by Lockheed Electras. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The 15th Session of the Assembly of ICAO which was held in Buenos Aires during the latter part of 1968 adopted an Australian proposal which called for the convening of a special Meeting on Aircraft Noise, and for the inclusion of any noise limitations and procedures that were developed in a new Annex to the Convention. The meeting was held during the following year and about 3 weeks ago the Council of ICAO adopted Annex 16 which sets out noise limitations which will be used in future aircraft certification programmes. In effect, this means that future subsonic jet aeroplanes will be substantially quieter than comparable types in operation at the present time. The Department of Civil Aviation, through its representation on the ICAO Committee on Aircraft Noise, will press for international limitations that will mean noise reduction in V/TOL, STOL and SST aircraft. The Committee has also been instructed to review at periodic intervals the feasibility of making existing noise certification standards more stringent. 
Action to introduce Commonwealth legislation to reflect the provisions of Annex 16 is in hand. This will, of course, involve Government and Parliamentary approval. 
It is expected that noise monitoring equipment will be installed at Sydney Airport by mid-1972 and this will enable the Department of Civil Aviation to measure the noise emitted by individual aircraft and to adopt any measures that are appropriate to the case. 
I am delighted to be able to answer this question because at the moment 19 Bills are ready for presentation to the House. A substantial job has been done in this regard by the Legislation and Programming Committee under the chairmanship of my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This achievement indicates the work that has been done over the last few months in trying to evolve a policy of administration which will solve a problem that has worried Parliaments throughout the world for many years. The Prime Minister initiated the appointment of a committee of senior representatives of the Public Service to prepare a report and to advise the Legislation and Programming Committee in relation to this matter. A lot of other investigation has been made by officers in various departments and a tremendous amount of co-operation has been received on all sides. 
I am indeed happy to report to the House on behalf of my colleague and his Committee that at this point of time, the first day of the sittings of this session, we have ready for presentation 19 Bills of which 12 are outside the Budget and 7 are related to the Budget. In addition many other Bills, some associated with the Budget and others with other matters, will be ready for presentation to the House in a short time. This situation will assist the orderly conduct of the business of the House during the current sittings. As the Prime Minister has already announced, a terminal date will be determined after which time Bills may not be introduced. I assure the House that everything possible is being done to create in this Parliament a situation which will be the envy of most Parliaments. 
I have noted in the Press that the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange has indicated that it will be undertaking an investigation of certain matters relating to statements by the  Chairman  of Queensland Mines Ltd and therefore under those circumstances I would not like to deal in detail with that individual matter. However, I should like to make it clear that when figures are submitted to me by any outside organisation I will not accept them unless they are proven. This has applied always and I have stated that before in this House. Figures that have been given to rae by various organisations are in many cases estimates which have to be proven and I and my Department will accept figures only after the completion of drilling operations, when survey evidence can be produced to show that these statements are of proven fact. I say that because sometimes there is an inference that the figures which are quoted by some companies are confirmed by my Department and accepted as proven figures. This is not so. We must have direct survey evidence for any figures that we accept. 
The second point which 1 think is of vital importance to Australia - I stand by my previous statement- - is that the uranium province in the Northern Territory is a significant one by world standards. There are more operations going on in that province area than those conducted by Queensland Mines Ltd. Perhaps it could be judged from some of the statements in the Press that the statement of Queensland Mines Ltd referred to the whole of the province. That is not so, and I should like te put the record right at this time. Queensland Mines Ltd still has an enormous amount of survey work to carry out in other areas. Of course, other companies such as Peko-Wallsend Ltd, E Z Industries Ltd, Noranda Australia Ltd and the Pan Continental organisation are operating and exploring in that region. In addition, the Bureau of Mineral Resources in my Department has carried out some work, in some cases in conjunction with those other operators. The Bureau has arrived at a figure that 1 accept. It has stated that it can substantiate the known quantity of uranium oxide, U308 or yellow coke - call it what you like - in the province of the Northern Territory as amounting to at least 100,000 tons. 1 quoted that figure only fairly recently in Japan. 1 would not like the international Press to pick up anything resulting from reports that have appeared following a statement by one company which would affect our credibility overseas in relation to the future development of this uranium province. Honourable members opposite are interjecting, but this is a most important matter because it relates to a vitally important industry for Australia. I am sure that the Opposition realises that. I conclude by saying that other opportunities exist in Australia for finding substantial deposits of uranium. Already in South Australia, there are indications from the exploration work that has taken place that further deposits will be established and will ultimately be proven. I can only repeat that in the future Australia will be a major world producerin the uranium field. The significance of that is obvious. mcmahon ministry 
Some time ago the River Murray Commission undertook a survey and the report was finalised some months ago. As is known, the River Murray system is the most important river system in Australia and with the development of conservation schemes and increased irrigation it is essential that a complete study be made and a full understanding be had of the salinity problem. The report is extensive. 1 am sure that the honourable member has seen it. It would probably take him  a few weeks to read. The report involves a tremendous amount of technical work, and additional study is required. At present the report is under study by the various governments concerned and by th.e River Murray Commission. ' Several discussions already have been held in relation to the report but at the moment I am unable to indicate when some final recommendations will be available for consideration by the 3 State governments and the Commonwealth Government. One point in relation to this matter is that the South Australian Government has already produced a document, part of which is based on the report. However, until the report is finally studied hy all the governments concerned and recommendations are made and considered hy the governments it will not be possible to indicate what action will be taken. This may be some months yet. In regard to the other point about visiting the particular area, 1 will see whether that can' be done in the future, and certainly I will contact the honourable member regarding it. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. Rates of duty applying to imports if caustic soda during 1968-69 were 25 per cent General and 15 per cent Preferential. If imports of caustic soda for alumina production in 1968-69 had been subject to these rates, the duty payable would have been approximately $635,000. 
1 refer the Honourable Member to the answer provided by the Treasurer to Question No. 1882 (Hansard 30th October Page 3194). In his administration of the income tax legislation, the Commissioner of Taxation is empowered to require any person to furnish him with such information as he may require. Accordingly, the Commissioner has the requisite authority to make his own enquiries into prices received for alumina exported overseas. 
The attention of the Honourable Member is drawn to the conclusions reached by the Tariff Board in its report on Chlorine and Sodium Hydroxide released by the then  Deputy  ' Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr McEwen,  on 61h November 1969. In that report, the Board put forward the view that on the information available there seemed little doubt that the alumina industry in Australia could, at least for the time being, retain a substantial export trade without the Benefit of the by-law arrangement. However, the Board also recognised that should the cost of sodium hydroxide be raised, this could affect the alumina industry's ability to continue expanding its exports and could result in decisions by international companies involved in the industry to locate new plants outside Australia. In view of the importance of alumina exports to the Australian economy, the Board believed that the risks involved in imposing a duty on sodium hydroxide used in the production of export alumina were not warranted by the potential benefit to the local chlorine and sodium hydroxide industry. These views were accepted by the Government and the arrangement whereby producers of alumina for export secured supplies of caustic soda under bylaw was continued. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
Topographic Mapping by the Department of National Development 
Air Photography 83 per cent of the mainland has been covered by air photography at scales ranging between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000. Unphotographed areas are being steadily covered as whether conditions allow. 1 :  50,000 Manuscript (Planimetric) Maps 
This series of maps, used mainly for administrative purposes, gives 95 per cent coverage of that portion of the mainland between Lae and Milne Bay. 
World Aeronautical Charts and the Australian Geographical Series 
There is complete map coverage of the Territory with each of these series. The scale of each series is 1:1,000,000. These maps are of substandard quality pending completion of larger scale mapping. 
World Aeronautical Charts show information useful for aviation purposes and are produced for the Department of Civil Aviation. The Australian Geographic Series will be progressively replaced by the International Map of the World (IMW). Standard editions of the IMW are part of a world series and are produced to international specifications. 
Photomaps (1 :  63,360 scale) 48 per cent of the mainland has been covered by photomaps. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The sort of radioactive wastes which will occur from the nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay and the methods employed to dispose of these products will depend very much on which type of reactor is chosen. An exact answer cannot therefore be given until the choice has been made. However, all the reactors finally examined were in the class known as 'water reactors' and the following general comments apply to these reactors which for convenience are considered in two classes, direct cycle and indirect cycle. Direct cycle systems have the turbine driven by steam produced in the reactor core from the coolant water. Indirect cycle systems have separate loops for the core coolant and the turbine steam circuit, heat being transferred from the former to the latter in a heat exchanger. The remarks deal with the three types of radioactive wastes produced, airborne, aqueous and solid and the figures in brackets after the radionuclides are their respective half lives. The half life is the time required for the radioactivity of a radionuclide to decay to half its original intensity. This decay continues progressively; i.e. after two half lives, the intensity will be one quarter the original, after three, one eighth and so on. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Vam not aware of any official statements by the New Zealand authorities to this effect. 
In the tight of the answer to the first question, I am not in a position to comment. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is incorrect to say that any proposed nuclear power station at jervis Bay will be based on a technology which is likely to be superseded within a few years. No doubt the honourable member is making reference to the possibility of fust breeder reactor systems superseding current thermal reactor systems. As stated on several previous occasions fast breeder systems hold great promise for the future but they are not yet commercially practicable. Accordingly they are not likely to supersede the current generation of reactors within a few years'. 
CANDU Reactor (Question No. 2834) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two. A third CANDU reactor, Pickering No. 1 of 500 MWe capacity situated in Ontario, Canada went critical on 25 th February 1971 and is scheduled to enter commercial operation in September 1971. . 
Rolphton, Ontario, Canada- 5 Megawatts Electrical. Douglas Point, Ontario,. Canada  -  200 Megawatts Electrical. 
I invite the honourable member's - attention to my answer to his question on notice No. 2843. 
SGHW Reactors (Question No. 2835) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One. 
The SGHW reactor is located at Winfrith, Dorset, United Kingdom and has a capacity ot 100 Megawatts. 
1 invite the honourable member's attention to my answer to his question No. 2843. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, apart from a few exploratory experiments on possible new methods of production. 
There are several well-known and proven methods for the production of heavy water, and as yet there has been no need for the Commission to become involved in experimenting intensively in its production. 
See answer to (1) above and my answer to the honourable member's question No. 2837. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) There are several nuclear power reactors operating in the U.S.S.R. 
There have been unconfirmed reports that there are nuclear power reactors in operation in the People's Republic of China. 
(a) and (b). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In answer to somewhat similar questions I stated it was not possible to give answers in precise quantitative terms. The cost of nuclear power generation in Australia will depend on a number of factors such as the size of the station, its location, the financial conditions involved, the type of reactor, the degree of local content and so on. 
It is true that as a result of the assessment of the tenders received for the proposed Jervis Bay nuclear power station we now have a better knowledge of the relative costs of electricity generated from reactors using natural uranium and those using enriched uranium. This information, however, relates only to that particular station and as the tendered figures are necessarily confidential, I am not in a position to disclose them to the honourable member. 
Costs of electricity generated by conventional plants in Australia vary very much between individual plants because of variations in local conditions so that again a precise comparative statement between nuclear and conventional generation cannot be supplied. I would add, however, that under current conditions in Australia I do not believe that nuclear power stations are competitive with conventional ones. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Invitation to Tender document for theJervis Bay Nuclear Power Station States: 
It is the intention that the Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station shall become fully independent of overseas fuel supplies and services. The (Atomic Energy) Commission may, at its discretion, authorise the purchase of overseas fuel supplies including fabrication for the first charge and replacement fuel for a period not exceeding 5 years after start-up. 
The acceptability of any Tender will depend on satisfactory arrangements being made between the Tenderer and the Commission for those operations required for local fuel preparation, including conversion and enrichment, if applicable, and fuel clement manufacture. 
The Tenderer shall provide, as a part of his Tender, a comprehensive description of the plan and assurances by which he will meet the requirements of an indigenous fuel supply, including evidence of the agreement of the necessary government authorities.' 
No. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Insurance companies in Australia include provisions in their policies to exclude liability for property damage which may have been caused by a nuclear accident. 
I can assure the honourable member that adequate arrangements will be made to cover members of the public and their property against the most unlikely event of damage from a nuclear accident involving a Jervis Bay Station. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question depends in large measure on his understanding of 'fully proved'. Power reactors undergo continual development in the light of operating experience so that no plant currently, on offer can be considered fully proved although their reliability is generally quite acceptable. Reactors which could be built today with reasonable confidence in their safety, reliability and performance - although they could not be considered as fully proved - would be Magnox Reactors, Advanced Gas Reactors, Boiling Water Reactors, Pressurised Water Reactors, Steam Generating Heavy Water Reactors and the Canadian Heavy Water Natural Uranium Reactor (CANDU). 
Yes. 
PWR- Westinghouse, U.S.A. 
PWR - Draftwerk Union, Germany 
SGHWR-J-The Nuclear Power Group, U.K. 
CANDU - Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have not so far been in the position to make a comprehensive statement on the proposed Jervis Bay Power Station but in the meantime I have provided answers to your questions Nos 2830 to 2843. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised as follows: 
The varying extent to which there may be an overseas interest in a company in Australia, and the different forms which this interest might take, creates the necessity to develop some objective criteria as to what constitutes an overseas company. The Bureau of Census and Statistics has adopted the following conventions for the purpose of producing statistics on overseas participation in Australian industry. 
As a general rule overseas Companies (and consortia) are those in which there is a direct overseas investment as follows: 
Australian companies in which at least 50 per cent of the ordinary shares (or voting stock) is held by individual shareholders or individual companies resident in one overseas country, or where 25 per cent or more of the ordinary shares (or voting stock) is held by one company or a group or associated companies, incorporated in one overseas country. 
Branches of companies incorporated overseas and registered in Australia as foreign companies. 
Wholly owned and partly owned subsidiaries and sub-subsidiaries, etc., of companies included in (i) and (ii) above. 
Based on these criteria, there were 57 overseas companies and consortia engaged in mining in Australia in the calendar year 1968, and '13 overseas companies engaged in mineral processing in Australia in the year ended June 1967. These are the latest years for which figures are available. It should be noted that some overseas companies included in the figure for mining would also be included in the number of overseas companies engaged in mineral processing. 
For statistical purposes, the Bureau measures the degree of overseas ownership and control in terms of the percentage of the total value of production of an industry which is attributable to overseas and to Australian companies respectively. To do this it  is  again necessary to adopt certain conventions. When measuring the degree of overseas ownership by overseas companies, the value of production of their mining or mineral processing activities is attributed according to the percentage of the equity interest held overseas and in Australia, respectively. However, when measuring the degree of overseas control by these overseas companies, the whole of the value of production of their mining or mineral processing ' activities is attributed to them, except where an Australian company holds a greater proportion of the equity interest than an overseas company in which case the value of production is  attributed wholly to Australian control. 
Measured in these terms the overseas companies (mentioned in answer to Question 1) controlled 58 per cent of the total value of mining production (1968) and 71 per cent of the total value of mineral processing production (in 1966-67)'. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A large number of processes for treating industrial waste water are reported in the technical literature and although the process known as the Krupp-Katox process may have been reported in the literature I am not aware of it being called by that name. 
In the light of the answer above, I am not able to provide the detailed comment sought. However I might say that the selection of a treatment system for any particular application will depend on the circumstances of the water being treated, the quality required of the product water, the environment in which the' treatment plant is to be located and any secondary effects resulting from the use of the process or set of processes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Welpa. This deposit was discovered by H. Evans of Consolidated Zinc Corporation Ltd in 1955 during the course of a field survey in which he was primarily concerned with petroleum exploration but under instructions to be on the look out also for other minerals. The Cape York area was mentioned in BMR Bulletin No. 24  -  Bauxite in Australia, by H. B. Owen, issued in 1954, as an area in which 'commercially valuable deposits of iron ore and presumably bauxite' might occur. 
Gove and Wessel Islands: The Wessel Island deposits were found in 1949 by part-time prospectors who had been instructed by Owen (then an officer of the Bureau of Mineral Resources) what to look for and what samples to obtain. Samples brought in by them to Owen were foundto be bauxite. The individual deposits were identified by Owen in 1951 and testing was carried out in 1952. This was arranged by the Australian Aluminium Production Commission, a joint CommonwealthTasmanian Government Authority, under whose auspices most of the exploration for and testing of bauxites in Australia up to that time had been carried out, with the Bureau of Mineral Resources acting as the exploration agency. 
The Gove deposits were tested in detail, first by New Guinea Resources Prospecting Co., owned 51 per cent by the Commonwealth Government and 49 per cent by British Aluminium Co. Ltd and subsequently by various other companies including finally, Nabalco. 
Mitchell Plateau: These deposits were found by K. Malcolm of American Metal Climax (Amax) in 1965 and subsequently tested by that company. The Bureau of Mineral Resources was carrying out geological mapping in the southern part of the Kimberleys at the same time but was not directly concerned in the discovery. 
Darling Ranges: Bauxite has been known for long timeto occur in the Darling Ranges and the deposits are briefly described in BMR Bulletin No. 
They were regarded as being low grade until investigations by Alcoa showed that deposits consisted of material that could be economically treated to produce alumina. Subsequently testing and assessment of the deposits has been done by Alcoa and other companies holding exploration permits in different parts of the Darling Ranges. 
Other Deposits. The history and details of the geology and testing of these are set out in BMR Bulletin No. 24, a copy of which is available for examination in the Library of the Bureau of Mineral Resources. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first production of aluminium in Australia was at the Bell Bay plant of the Australian Aluminium Production Commission, a Commonwealth and Tasmanian Government enterprise, during the period September 1955-December 1960. In . January 1961, Comalco Aluminium (Bell Bay) Limited purchased the plant, although the Tasmanian Government retained a 17.4 per cent shareholding. Comalco Ltd now holds all the ordinary shares in this company: the Tasmanian Government holds 1.5 million $1 preference shares. 
Subsequent aluminium smelting projects in Australia have been developed by private enterprise - namely, that of Alcoa of Australia Ltd at Point Henry, Victoria, and that of Alcan Australia Ltd at Kurri Kurri, New South Wales. 
Aluminium production by public enterprise: 
initial production: 1,248 tons were produced in the final quarter of 1955; 9,143 tons were produced in 1956-the first full year of operation; initial production capacity of the Bell Bay plant was 12,000 tons per annum. 
and (c) A maximum production of 11,655 tons was attained in 1960; this was also the last year of production by government enterprise. 
Aluminium production by private enterprise: 
Comalco Aluminium (Bell Bay) . Ltd produced 13,204 tons of aluminium in 1961, the company's first year of operation. 
and (c) A production of 201,258 tons was reached in 1970, and reflected a record' output by each of the 3 domestic smelters mentioned above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As stated by me in the House of Representatives on 31st March 1971 (Hansard page 1230) The Australian  Forestry  -Council at its meeting held on 10th July 1970, agreed that its Standing Committee should examine aspects of forestry activities in relation to the maintenance of the quality of the environment and report on its examination to the Council at, its next meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As  was announced in a Press statement issued on behalf of . the Australian Water Resources Council by the  Chairman,  the Technical Committee on Water Quality was established by ihe .Council at its meeting held !h Sydney on the 24th July 1970. 
The membership of the Committee comprises the following State or Commonwealth officers: 
a representative of the major Water Authority in each State and the Northern Territory 
a representative of a principal urban Water Authority in each State and the Australian Capital Territory 
a specialist drawn from each of the 4 disciplines, chemistry, agriculture, fisheries and wildlife and human health 
one representative each from the following  Commonwealth Departments' or Authorities: 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
I have seen reference -to various estimates of recent flood damage in the Darling Valley but I am not aware of any authentic figure. 
Yes. 
It is inevitable that the occurrence of widespread flooding stimulates interest in works to mitigate the effects of floods. 
While some advantages may be claimed for the type of programme envisaged by the Darling Conservation Association, it would appear also to involve some major problems in relation to the well established patterns of administration in Australia, particularly with regard to the role of State Government Departments. Hence it may be questioned whether the proposals of the Darling Conservation Association represent the best approach in the Australian situation. In any case the proposals of the Darling Conservation Association are a matter for consideration first by the appropriate State authorities. 
The role of the River Murray Commission is governed by the River Murray Waters Agreement between the Commonwealth and the three riparian States. The powers of the River Murray Commission as given by this Agreement, relate almost entirely to the construction of works and the apportionment of water. While the Commission has control over the allocation of water from ils storages and the waters of the River Murray and tributaries above Albury, the other tributaries arc under the control of the States. 'The extent to which' it can go in assuming responsibility for ' salinity in the river has not been determined, but generally speaking this is mainly a matter for the States. 
The Salinity Report issued by the Consultants to the River Murray Commission put forward proposals for a variety of measures affecting the Valley generally. 
A number of major recommendations in the Salinity Report relate' to matters which are the direct responsibility of the individual States and the Commission as such has no authority to ensure their implementation. As indicated in the note which 1 issued to accompany the report, it provides an essential basis for the more detailed studies which may be required prior to implementation, with particular reference to salinity control measures. I can assure the Honourable Member that I share his concern that there should be no unnecessary delay in carrying out these studies and in taking such measures as are found feasible and justified. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Most dams in Australia are constructed by State authorities, and I am not able to provide the data requested for all major dams constructed in the post-war period. However the following table has been compiled from published information. 
The answer to. the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information sought by the Bureau of Mineral Resources from coal-owning' companies was restricted to details of black coal reserves in various categories including information on the bases for calculations, recovery factors, etc. 
The response from companies is regarded as satisfactory and an inventory showing total known reserves of the several types of black coal in Australian coalfields has been compiled and will be published in due course. As the inquiry was conducted on a confidential basis, details of information supplied by individual companies are not available for release. 
Information on contracts and prices was not sought from coal-owning companies. 
The answer, to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A meeting of the - Australian Water Resources Council was held in Canberra on the 15th April 1971 and presumably this is the meeting referredto. The following lists the names and portfolios of the Ministers in attendance: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth Departments have carried out an examination of the request by the South Australian Government for financial assistance with the Lock-Kimba water pipeline on Eyre Peninsula. 
I expect a decision on this matter to be made in the near future, and it will be conveyed to the South Australian Government as soon as possible. 
Pre-school Education  (Question No.  3388) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
See 2. 
On the 26th November 1970 a joint statement by myself, the then New South Wales Minister for Conservation, the honourable J. G. Beale, M.L.A. and the Queensland Minister for Conservation the honourable N. T. E. Hewitt, M.L.A., was issued indicating the terms of Commonwealth financial assistance for construction of the Pike Creek Dam. A copy of this Press Statement will be made available to the honourable member. 
by leave - This message has come back from the Senate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that he has not seen it before. 1 have not seen it before either, so we are both in the same position. This matter relates to a Bill which was passed through this House and which was passed by the Senate at the end of the last sitting. It relates also to an amendment that was proposed in this House. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  probably handled it at the time. I think a similar amendment was proposed in the Senate. The amendment moved in this House was not accepted, nor was the amendment moved in the Senate; but the Senate asked that this message be sent back to the House of Representatives. The matter has already been debated in this House. I repeat that the amendment was rejected by this House when the Bill was going through. 
The Bill related to specific assistance for flood mitigation in connection with a number of rivers in New South Wales and received the approval of this House. The amendment, which was in somewhat similar terms to this message, was. as 1 have said, rejected by the House when the relevant Bill was before us. I do not want to prevent debate on any matter if it is felt that it should be brought up for discussion in the House. I merely point out that this matter has already been discussed. If the Leader of the Opposition wishes this matter to be debated at some later point of time I cannot guarantee when we will be able to debate it, but I can give him an assurance that we will move that the House take note of the message. We can note it for consideration, and it can be debated at a later stage. If that is acceptable to the Leader of the Opposition, I am prepared to do it. 
by leave - On 28th August last year, I spoke to the House on the state of the proposal to construct Australia's first nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. Since that time the Government has decided to defer a decision on this power station for 12 months. It will re-examine the matter in the light of circumstances then existing. It would, I believe, be appropriate to outline to the House the events which led up to this decision. The Atomic Energy Commission has for many years been engaged in close studies of nuclear power developments. It advised that the time was approaching when nuclear power would be competitive with other means of power generation in some areas of Australia. The Government then decided to discuss the matter with the States. This decision was taken late in 1968. As a result of the discussions, the Government concluded that the Commonwealth should give the lead by building a nuclear power station which would not only produce power but also serve for demonstration and training. The practical experience obtained directly in Australia on the station would be of great benefit to Australian industry and the electricity authorities in their future nuclear power activities. Moreover, it was clear that the project would be a valuable means of developing, in a practical context, standards and criteria for reactor siting, construction and operation and all the complex licensing and other regulatory controls which experience overseas has shown to be necessary. 
It was against this background that agreement was reached with New South Wales to collaborate in the construction of a 500 megawatt nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. We were not, and are not, seeking to compete with the States in the generation of electricity nor to intrude upon their role in this matter. Power demand in Australia is increasing rapidly - doubling about every 8 years. This growth means that quite large units will be required in New South Wales and Victoria in the 1980s. It is in the large unit sizes that nuclear power is likely to become competitive first with fossil-fuelled power stations. 
Tender specifications were prepared by the Atomic Energy Commission in conjunction with the Electricity Commission of New South Wales, and assisted by the consultants, Bechtel Pacific Corporation, and were issued to interested suppliers on 28th February 1970. Fourteen tenders were received in June 1970 from 7 com panies in 4 countries. These tenders were examined intensively in San Francisco and in Sydney, following which I announced in August last year a short list of 4 tenderers. The offers of the short-listed tenderers were subjected to a most thorough examination by the Atomic Energy Commission, the Electricity Commission of New South Wales and Bechtel Pacific Corporation. From the tendered information estimates were made of the cost of a complete power station. The cost figures based on the tenders received were higher than had been expected. This result, viewed in the light of the necessity to limit expenditures, made the Government feel it should not proceed with the project immediately. 
I would like to refer briefly to reports speculating upon a very wide range of prospective costs of the station. As no tender has been accepted I do not propose to go into this matter except to point out that for different types of stations a wide variety of factors must be taken into account. For example there is the question whether or not the tendered price includes the cost of the first charge of nuclear fuel, which is an item running into many millions of dollars and the cost of which varies substantially for different types of reactors. The total cost of a nuclear power station must include the client's own costs, which are again a multi-million dollar item. To these must be added, as a cost to the purchaser, interest during the 5-year construction period and finally the costs of escalation of wages and materials not only in Australia but in the supplying country. These last two items involve heavy additions. I mention these matters to make it clear that the nature of cost and price figures published without a detailed explanation of what they cover and of the accounting 'ground rules' can be quite misleading. 
The Government entered into this project with the intention that it would be carried to completion and that a tenderer would be selected. It is unfortunate that economic circumstances have forced us to take the decision which I have announced, but honourable members will understand that it is an inevitable rule of contracting that no tender may necessarily be accepted, and tenderers take this risk. Australia is by no means the first country to have called tenders for a nuclear power station, only to decide to defer entering into a contract. We nevertheless understand the disappointment some tenderers may feel and assure them of our appreciation of the time and effort they spent. I would add that the detailed technical, safety and economic evaluation of the tenders has been particularly thorough. The Atomic Energy Commission and the Bechtel Pacific Corporation have given very satisfactory service in this respect, ably assisted by the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. The expert staff engaged on these important tasks can take satisfaction from the knowledge that their efforts illustrate Australia's competence to undertake this complex task. 
Finally, the House will be aware that we necessarily incurred certain expenditure in this exercise. First, there were consulting fees of nearly $500,000 which were inevitable once we were committed to proceed with the seeking of tenders and their evaluation. This is certainly no real loss because of the valuable experience gained by officers of the Atomic Energy Commission and the electricity generating authorities. Secondly, we spent about $1,250,000 on site preparation, an access road and electricity and water services. Had we not done so and had the project proceeded as was then expected, there would have been costly delays in its construction. Expenditure on site preparation and services will of course not be lost if in due course a nuclear power station is built at Jervis Bay. A full range of environmental studies have been carried out and will continue. A large number of State and Commonwealth bodies, as well as the Commission, have been involved in the studies, including those on meteorology, marine investigations and flora and fauna surveys. These studies are providing valuable information and the results will be important not only in the Jervis Bay context, but also in providing information directly relevant  to the siting of nuclear power stations at other places in Australia in the future. 
Work will continue also at Jervis Bay in restoration of the environment surrounding the road and the cutting prepared for the power station. Replanting and restocking with native plants and shrubs is taking place. Steps are being taken to prevent erosion of the site excavation and any wash-off of soil into the bay during heavy rains. I know that the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  had the opportunity of viewing this work only recently. We are conscious of the potential importance of nuclear power not only to industrial development of Australia, but also to easing the growing problem of pollution of the atmosphere. In this connection the Atomic Energy Commission will continue its studies of nuclear power technology and relate this to the Jervis Bay project. As I have stated, the Government will keep developments under review and will continue to give careful consideration to the introduction of nuclear power in Austrafia. I present the following paper: 
Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station ProjectMinisterial Statement, 18th August 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Garland)  proposed. 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average value of coal exported from Queensland to Japan during the 8 months ended February 1971 based on data published by the Bareau of Census &amp; Statistics, was$A10.47. Contract prices were increased during this period and future figures will reflect these increases 
In 1970 there was a difference of$US8/9 between the FOB contract prices of some Australian coals as compared with the top grade United States coals. Queensland coal is not of as high a grade as the best American coal. During 1970 Japan purchased spot cargoes of United States coal at prices well above contract prices. 
Between 1964-65 and 1969-70 the total annual tonnage of black coal exported from Australia increased from 6,051,000 tons to 17,464,000 tons or a rate of increase of export consumption of 189 per cent. It is unrealistic to assume that exports will continue to expand at that rate. However, if exports were to continue to grow by an average of 12 million tons every 5 years, cumulative exports by 2000 A.D. would be about 1700 million tons, representing approximately 20 per cent of the total known reserves of recoverable black coal in Australia at the present time. 
The FOB value of coal exported from Australia in the year 1969-70 was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Set out below is information in respect of Commonwealth-State Council meetings which I have attended since I became Minister for National Development 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Itis not the usual practice to disclose the composition of interdepartmental committees and consequently it is not proposed to list all such committees on which officers of my Department serve. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has not been normal practice to submit progress reports to Parliament on the many State projects for which Commonwealth financial assistance is being provided. My Department and I keep informed, of course, about progress on projects which fall within our area of responsibility and on particular aspects where our endorsement is necessary. As the Commonwealth funds are provided to the States for projects within the respective States and the responsibility for the implementation lies with the State authorities concerned, it would seem more appropriate that such information as desiredbe obtained directly from the State authorities concerned. 
In the case of the Beef Roads Programme which covers the whole of northern Australia, involving the States of Queensland and Western Australia and the Northern Territory, a comprehensive report bringing together the whole Programme was recently issued by the Northern Division of my Department and has been widely circulated. 
The total amount of Commonwealth funds committed to the projects listed, is summarised in the following table. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I move; 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation of 1944 provides for the establishment of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICOA) which was founded in 1947 and is a specialised agency of the United Nations. The permanent governing body of ICAO is the Council, which has contributed in a very important way to the development and adoption of international standards and recommended practices (incorporated as annexes to the Chicago Convention) which assist considerably in making air travel a safe and reliable mode of transport. The Council was originally composed of 21 contracting States elected by the Assembly of the Organization at which all contracting States are entitled to be present. The size of the Council was increased from 21 to 27 in 1962. Australia has been an elected member of the Council since ICAO came into being. 
At the 17th (Extraordinary) Session of the Assembly held at New York on the 11th and 12th March 1971 ICAO unanimously adopted a Protocol amending Article 50(a) of the Chicago Convention to increase the number of members of the Council from 27 to 30. The amendment requires ratification by 80 States out of the total membership of 120 before it comes into force. The primary purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to ratify this Protocol. The Air Navigation Act 1920-1960 sets out in Schedules the Chicago Convention which was ratified by Australia in 1947 and two Protocols amending the Convention in minor respects. This Act has been amended in 1961 and 1963 to approve the ratification of other minor amendments to the Chicago Convention including that increasing the size of the Council from 21 to 27 members, these amendments being set out in further Schedules to the Principal Act. The present Bill continues the practice by inserting the new Protocol as the 7th Schedule to the Principal Act. 
The Australian Delegation to the Extraordinary Session of the Assembly supported the increase in the membership of the Council for three major reasons. First, it was the wish of the majority of member States for an increase of three members. Secondly, an increase of three could not be considered unreasonable in the light of the fact that the total membership of ICAO had grown from 84 in 1961 to 120 members in March 1971. Thirdly, proportionate increases have been made over the years in the size of the executive bodies of other specialised agencies of the United Nations. The Australian Government welcomes the participation of an increased number of States in the work of the Council. The increase being limited to three new members should improve the functioning of the Council without impairing its efficiency. Membership of the ICAO Council has been of considerable value to Australia's civil aviation interests and I feel that, as a country which has an important status in world aviation, Australia has been able to make a worthwhile contribution to the Organization by maintaining Council membership. The addition of three members is expected to add little, if any, to the administrative costs of the Organization. The costs of provision of secretarial services should be absorbed in the normal provision of these services and there could be offsets as ICAO will be paid rentals by the new members for the use by their delegations of offices in the ICAO Headquarters Building. 
The Bill also seeks to repeal section 6 of the Air Navigation Act 1920-1966 which was inserted in 1960 to confer legal capacity on ICAO in Australia and to confer on it the privileges and immunities necessary for the independent exercise of its powers and performance of its functions in Australian territory. The International Organizations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 was passed to specify the privileges and immunities in Australia of international organisations including such specialised agencies of the United Nations as ICAO. The privileges and immunities of ICAO are set out in detail in the International Organizations (Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Agencies) Regulation 1962 which were continued in force by that Act. Accordingly, section 6 of the Air Navigation Act no longer serves any useful purpose and the opportunity is being taken to include a clause in the Bill repealing this section. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (a) and (b) The agreement between the New South Wales Government and Clutha Development Pty Ltd, which is authorised by the 
Clutha Development Pty Ltd Agreement Act, 1970, is set out in the Schedule to the Act. The Act referred to does not deal with the matter of permits to export coal. Clause 4 of the Agreement provides that the railway and offshore loading installation shall be designed to transport and load coal from the South Clifton Colliery holding and from mines in or near the Burragorang Valley or near the towns or villages of Picton, Thirlmere, Tahmoor or Bargo or any nearby localities which are presently owned or operated by Clutha Development Pty Ltd or any associated company or which are in the future opened by the company or any associated company and owned or operated by either the company or an associated company. 
While the proposed annual level of exports from the operations of Clutha Development Pty Ltd in southern New South Wales have not as yet been specified, the company is understood to have based its feasibility studies on a minimum export figure of 7 million tons of coal per annum. It is the policy of the Government of New South Wales to ensure that adequate reserves of both steaming and coking coal will be available to meet the long term requirements of the steel industry and certain areas have been reserved for this purpose. 
The Bureau of Mineral Resources and tha Joint Coal Board independently have recently estimated the recoverable reserves of high quality coking coal in the South Coast of New South Wales and the Burragorang Valley at approximately 1,600 million tons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (0, (2) and (3). lt is not usual practice to disclose the type of information sought in respect of interdepartmental committees. 
Navy Personnel in Civilian Gaols (Question No. 3227) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The domestic airlines have been requested to restrict as far as possible the number of night flights in and out of Perth consistent with the need to provide sufficient capacity for the traffic seeking transportation. 
With regard to international operations, Perth, of course, is an intermediate stop on long haul routes and therefore the times of nights into and out of Perth have for operational reasons to be co-ordinated with the times of arrival or departure at other points along the routes. This results in a pattern of aircraft movements on regular services at Perth either late at night or early in the morning. Because Perth is an international stop and not a terminating point, it is not practicable to impose a curfew on the comparatively small number of international movements at Perth. 
No action has been taken or is contemplated in relation to these international operations. You will be aware however that there has been a reduction in the number of calls at Perth following the withdrawal of Qantas services between Perth, Hong Kong and Singapore. 
 The matter which we are debating is one which has not yet officially been brought before the House, that is, the question of the appointment of Assistant Ministers and an additional Minister. I understand, as has already been indicated today, that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will take an opportunity in the normal way to announce any appointments that are made. This is the normal practice and it has always been the practice. The motion at the moment is not whether there should be appointments of Assistant Ministers or additional Ministers; the motion relates to the suspension of Standing Orders. Honourable members are aware that this is a device which can be used at any time. It is a device which has been used extensively by the Opposition in the past, and I have no doubt that the Opposition will endeavour to use it in the future. In other words, the motion we are discussing relates to the running of the business of the House and not the appointment of Ministers. This latter issue will arise only when a statement is made in relation to it. 
I appreciated the humour of the last  speaker  who introduced a light touch in his concluding remarks when referring to the duties of Assistant Ministers, but he does not know and he has no authority to state what those duties will be. The position is that if and when Assistant Ministers are appointed their duties will have to be decided in accordance with the Standing Orders. This matter would not be determined until the Standing Orders Committee had had an opportunity to consider the matter and to bring its recommendations to this House. So what the honourable member has said is not accurate because at this point of time he does not know what will happen, and at this point of time I do not think any of us knows what will happen - nor will we know until the matter has been brought to the Standing Orders Committee, debated by the Committee and a recommendation brought to the House. 1 should like also to draw attention to the point put by the honourable member that an unlimited number of Assistant Ministers could be appointed. He knows that this is the situation so far as Ministers are concerned not only in this Parliament but also in practically every Parliament in the world which has a democratic system. In most parliaments in the world there is no limitation on the number of Ministers or, as in this case, Assistant Ministers that can be appointed. This is a question of judgment, lt is quite foolish, although perhaps humorous, to say that we could appoint everyone as a Minister or Assistant Minister. This situation has always applied here and there has always been throughout the history of our Federal system the opportunity to appoint Assistant Ministers, I can speak with some feeling on this matter because for about 9 years I was what was first termed a parliamenary under-secretary and later a parliamentary secretary. I am sure that many honourable members now in the House will recall that. At that time we were not sworn of the Executive Council. I know that the Prime Minister at that time had been giving consideration to the matter and that there was very careful discussion of whether parliamentary secretaries should be sworn at the Executive Council. It just happened that at that time in 1961, as the last parliamentary secretary, I was appointed to the Ministry and so the matter was dropped. 
The procedure we are discussing is not an unusual procedure; it is a procedure which applies in many countries. But this is not the time to debate this point; the issue before the House is the suspension of the Standing Orders, the suspension of Standing Orders being in this instance designed to take out of the hands of the Government the business of the House. We have a blue paper setting down the business proposed for the day. We have a time at which we would expect, in the order of procedure, the Prime Minister to make a statement. 
I mentioned earlier what the Standing Orders allow and the fact that the suspension of Standing Orders has been moved is an illustration that it can be done. The mover and seconder of the motion have spoken already and now I have had the opportunity to say a few words. Seeing that we have heard 2 speakers from the Opposition I hope that there will be an opportunity for another speaker to be called from the Government side of the House. T reiterate that it is the suspension of Standing Orders only with which we are dealing, and not the substantive matter. 
by leave - The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that this matter has just been brought on today and that it has been brought on by the Government at this late hour. This is incorrect as the honourable gentleman knows. On 2 occasions this week we have had this matter listed for debate. However, due principally to the delaying tactics of the Opposition it has had to be deferred. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has raised a matter as to the time limit for the debating of an ordinance. He knows about this matter because he checked with the  Clerk  and we know that it has to be cleared before Thursday. I indicated to my opposite number, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  that we wanted this matter cleared through the House this week because on Tuesday night the Opposition will deliver its reply to the Budget. We did not want this matter to be mixed up with the Budget debate. In other words we did not want to delay the Budget debate at that time. This matter was part of the programme for this week which was accepted by the Opposition. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory agreed that the debate was to take place this week. I cannot see any reason why at this stage it is indicated that it was not known that the debate was coming on and that the matter has been delayed. I suggest that the only thing that can be done is for this matter to be debated straight away. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - by leave - Since the proceedings are being broadcast and the impression may be gained that the House is being unnecessarily delayed I must point out, as the notice paper shows, that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  gave notice of the disallowance of this ordinance on 23rd April this year. Not only would it have been possible for this matter to have been brought up on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday of this week as well as today but also it would have been possible for it to have been brought up at any time between 23rd April and 6th May when the House went into recess. Also it is possible for this matter to come up for debate on Monday when we sit in the afternoon or Tuesday when we sit in the afternoon before I resume the debate on the Budget on Tuesday night. I submit that there is no reason for this matter to be brought on today in such a way as to cut off debate on the other matter relating to the appointment of Assistant Ministers. The only other thing I wish to say is that the rather patronising reference to no sane or honest man saying that there was any difficulty about the Standing Orders which would have to be amended following the appointment of Assistant Ministers could be a reflection on you,  Mr Speaker,  because you gave us some inkling of the complexity of these changes. Last night they were never indicated to the meeting of the Standing Orders Committee which we both attended but which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  did not. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions:  (1), (2) and (3) Commuter services are performed by holders of charter licences who have been authorised to provide regular services over specified routes without holding the airline licences otherwise required to engage in such services. The authorisations, in the form of exemp tions pursuant to Air Navigation Regulation 203 specify the types of aircraft which may be used, but not the number of each type, and individual aircraft are not, in fact, licensed. Commuter operators, who are also charter operators, may thus draw on any or all of the aircraft of the types authorised in their fleets, or may, supplement their fleets, from time to time as traffic demands warrant. For this reason, it is not possible to answer your first question in the form in which you have expressed It. 
However, the accompanying table may be helpful in affording you an indication of the number of aircraft of various passenger seating capacities engaged in commuter operations. The information contained in the table will also answer your second and third questions regarding the countries from which the aircraft were imported and their cost. So far as cost is concerned, this will, of course, vary quite considerably, depending, for example, on the radio and navigation equipment and optional equipment installed. The prices shown in the table are, however, average prices quoted by the Australian distributors for new aircraft fully equipped to commuter service standards. I have no information on the prices actually paid for the aircraft in question. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have been advised by Trans-Australia Airlines that the arrangements it made were as follows: 
It was planned to transfer the passengers from flight 425 to flight 433. In effect this was what was done finally. To relieve the Electra aircraft which had been assigned to operate flight 425 but was unserviceable at Canberra, it was necessary to position another aircraft into Canberra. 
The only available aircraft was in Melbourne and it was assigned to operate flight 496, Melbourne/Canberra, and flight 433, Canberra/Melbourne, thus covering flights originally programmed for the unserviceable Electra. 
The Electra aircraft was declared serviceable at 8.58 p.m. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The accompanying table presents the information in respect of total jet aircraft movements within the curfew periods specified, and runway usage in connection with these movements. 
Of the 55 movements which occurred in the period, the approval of the Minister for Civil Aviation -was sought and obtained for 43 movements. These approvals were for flights which were obliged to operate within the curfew period in order to cater to the unusually high traffic demand at Easter. Approval for the remaining 12 movements, of aircraft delayed by unserviceability or other operational factors, was sought and obtained from the Airport Director. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to (he honourable member's question: 
A curfew period is enforced at Brisbane Airport between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
This curfew applies only to jet aircraft, such as the Boeing 727 and DC9 used by the domestic airlines and the Boeing 707 and DC8 used by the international carriers, and not to turbo-prop aircraft such as the Friendship and Electra, or to piston-engined types. 
Operations within the curfew period fall into two categories: those which must infringe into curfew hours in order to cater to unusually high traffic demands at peak travel times such as Christmas or Easter; and those which, for operational reasons, including delays due to aircraft unserviceability or weather conditions, cannot avoid infringing the curfew. The former, for which authorisation is sought by the airlines in advance, are approved by the Minister for Civil Aviation, and the latter are approved by the Airport Director. 
The accompanying tables provide the information on operations within the curfew period. The first table lists the occasions on which flights by jet aircraft have actually taken place at Brisbane Airport during curfew hours since 1st January 1971. This table also shows the operators of the flights concerned. Unfortunately, a similar record for 1970 is not available, but the second table, listing approvals granted for movements by jet aircraft within the curfew period, will afford you an indication to the extent of such operations. I might add that, generally speaking, approvals given for operations within curfew hours exceed the actual number of such movements. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has approved the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The film has been seen by officers of the Department of Civil Aviation and the subject matter together with similar data has been studied during recent years. 
Yes. A bed of coarse gravel or shingle adjacent to the runway end was recommended as a method. 
Yes. The Royal Aircraft Establishment has carried out tests dating from 1966 using a variety of materials - water, sand, soil, gravel and aerated concrete - placed in a shallow pit to determine the effectiveness of such a facility in stopping an aircraft which has overrun the end of the runway. These tests were initially conducted with a vehicle, then with obsolete aircraft and by simulation of aircraft in the Laboratory. Late last year, tests were carried out using a new light weight synthetic aggregate. 
These tests indicated that whilst there were some problems associated with it, a bed of shingle was effective at the range of entry speeds tested, in rapidly and safely bringing the vehicle and the aircraft to a halt without injury to occupants and without major structural damage to the aircraft. The possibility existed, however, of aircraft skin damage due to flying stones and ingestion of stones into jet engines, which could cause substantial damage. 
The results of these investigations, together with data on other types of arresting systems, such as cables and nets used on military aerodromes, have been studied by the Department of Civil Aviation in respect of application to civil aerodromes in Australia. This subject was also discussed at a major meeting of the International Civil Aviation Organisation in Montreal during late 1967. Member nations, including Australia, concluded that there was no operational requirement for such devices at this time, but agreed that investigations should continue. Australia supported these views, which still prevail. Information and data concerned with research and devel opment on aircraft arresting devices is being constantly studied by Departmental officers and the situation is being kept under review. 
Not applicable in view of answer to part (S) of question. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has fixed a minimum per capita rate, which is subject to periodical review, for travel on international charter flights to and from Australia. All air carriers eligible to perform charter flights in accordance with the Government's charter flight policy are bound to charge the minimum per capita rate and to observe the normal rules of the International Air Transport Association governing charter flights but in all other respects are free to compete with each other for charter business offering. 
Answered in the reply to question one. 
(a) In addition to meeting the standards set by the country of their registration air carriers operating charter flights to and from Australia are required to comply with the relevant Air Navigation Regulations. 
The Government has established minimum per capita rates to provide a stable economic basis for the development of charter services to and from Australia. 
A minimum period of club membership for charter passengers is one of the rules of the International Air Transport Association governing charter flights. 
The assumptions on which the question is based are incorrect. Scheduled airlines, including the Australian international flag carrier, charge uniform fares for travel on the world's air routes. Such fares are set by the International Air Transport Association, subject to approval of Governments, and are assessed on a route by route basis having regard to such economic factors common to all airlines as operating Costs and traffic density. Fares charged by Qantas Airways Limited throughout -its route network are those recommended by . IATA to all Governments and  approved' by them and the company (and the Australian Government)' does not negotiate agreements with other airlines in relation to fares and such matters as facilities, safety standards, timetables and routes. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Parallel runways have been a feature of the master plan for Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport since the mid- 1940s. However, in accordance with normal practice, that master plan is being contin uously updated and this includes re-examining the precise location of the parallels and the timing with which these additional facilities may be required. 1 am not yet in a position to advise on the precise timing and extent of these proposed additional aerodrome works. 
Yes. The Municipalities of South Sydney and Rockdale. 
The need for additional land and the location of that land including further reclamations within Botany Bay will only be determined on completion of the review of the master plan earlier mentioned. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Tt is not possible to determine precisely the costs which the Honourable Member seeks. Various assumptions have to be made in making calculations of this nature, and they will differ according to circumstances. On the basis of certain arbitrary assumptions, however, the following are the approximate unit costs requested. They should be - treated as illustrative only and used with caution: - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and' (2) As was announced in a press statement issued on behalf of the Australian Minerals Council, following , its meeting on 7th May 1971, the matter of 'mining and the environment' was discussed. The matter will come before the Council again at subsequent meetings. At- this stage the Council has not commissioned a special committee on the environment. 
It is indeed a pleasure to be asked a question by the Leader of the Opposition. I assure him that I am delighted to be given the opportunity to reply, as briefly as possible, to a question on a quite important matter. The Leader of the Opposition has posed matters which will require some study in depth. The point I made at that time was that a study was being undertaken by, principally, the Bureau of Mineral Resources of the Department of National Development into the coal reserves throughout Australia. The study had, of course, to be carried out in conjunction with the departments of mines in the States. That study has been practically completed. I expect that the Bureau will be able to start making its assessment of the situation in the very near future. As soon as that has been made a report will be submitted to me. After I have looked at the report I will certainly make a copy of it available to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The complex industrial situation that has arisen insofar as the Miners Federation is concerned is some cause for concern, although domestically the production of power and the coal requirements of industry have not been affected so far. There has been a drop in the coal exports from, particularly, the northern ports of New South Wales with a minor drop in the exports from the southern ports and some falling off in exports from the Queensland coal ports. Up to the present time this has not affected the overall situation in that the orders that have been placed and the contracts that have been signed have all been met. I think, perhaps fortuitously, the situation has been helped by a point I mentioned just a moment ago, the falling off in demand, particularly in Japan, for coking coal, which we hope will rectify itself eventually. The situation is that, whilst this industrial situation is posing a problem at the present time, it has not had a domestic or export effect up to the present time. But if it continues and if it is not rectified in the very near future it will have some effect, with the subsequent adverse effects being felt throughout the whole of industry in Australia. 
I move: 
That the honourable member tor Eden-Monaro be suspended from the service of the House. 
 As I said before, it is the privilege of an honourable member to have a matter referred to the Standing Orders Committee at any time by simply writing to you,  Mr Speaker,  or by referring the matter, through the House, to the Committee, as in this case. As far as I am concerned, there is no objection to this matter being referred to the Standing Orders Committee for its consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Motion (by  Mr Keating)  agreed to: 
That the matter of the distribution of questions be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 
I move: 
That the report of the Standing Orders Committee brought up on 20th August 1971 be adopted and that the Standing Orders of the House be amended as recommended by that Committee to come into operation on Tuesday, 28lh September 1971. 
The history of this matter goes back to last year when there was an amendment to the Standing Orders and the hours of meeting and days of sitting were changed in accordance with the recommen dation made at that time. Subsequent to that, a number of honourable members have raised the matter regarding the inconvenience of the new days of meeting and hours of sitting. A number of points which have been raised relate to some difficulties associated with the adoption of the new arrangement. Although it has been in operation for only a relatively short time and some changes have been made during that period so many cases against the present arrangement have been brought to notice that it was considered desirable to refer the matter to the meeting of the Government parties last week. From that meeting emerged a feeling that a change to the old days and hours would be desirable. Also arising from that meeting I referred the matter to my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who I understand referred the matter to his Caucus meeting at that time. As a result of that the matter was referred to a special meeting last week of the Standing Orders Committee as you are aware,  Mr Speaker,  as you were  chairman  of that Committee. 
Some of the points relating to the request for change have been raised by people who are finding it difficult - where honourable members have been in the habit of allocating regular times or particular days each week for electorate work - to fit into the rhythm of this arrangement each week. Also honourable members in the more remote areas find difficulty in getting home during the short weekend to attend to electorate matters. J can speak personally about this. Living in a country area I know that it is extremely difficult to get back to my electorate during the short weekend. I suppose that one of the ideas behind the change was that during the short weekend honourable members would stay in Canberra, committees could meet and honourable members would be able to undertake other parliamentary duties here. But I think that as a general rule most members still find that they should get back to their electorates during the weekend and the short weekend has produced quite a lot of difficulty for them in fitting in electorate arrangements. 
Another point which was raised was that until sitting days have actually been announced no-one can be certain that any day of the week from Monday through to 
Friday will be available for electorate or other work. I merely mention these points in support of the proposed change because these are the points which have been raised with me. 
Another point is that the Clerks and the staff concerned with the preparation of the business of the House have found difficulty in making the necessary arrangements. I know that the same problem of fitting in a changed week at irregular intervals applies to the departments. In addition to these matters there is the problem of Friday. I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will agree that it has been extremely difficult to conduct business on a Friday. Many honourable members have to go back to their electorates for urgent engagements and other business and many pairs are arranged. In the late afternoon it is extremely difficult to continue the normal programme of business. This is a factual situation which has arisen and my attention has been drawn to it as I am sure has the attention of many other people in the House. 
The final point I want to make is in relation to voting arrangements. As far as the Government is concerned honourable members on this side are free to vote as they wish, just as they were on the previous occasion when a similar amendment was proposed to the Standing Orders. I understand that (he Opposition will adopt exactly the same attitude and, no doubt, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition will refer to this matter. I commend the motion to the House. 
Although I have had an opportunity of reading in the Press that the South Australian Government intends to proceed with the original agreement in relation to the construction of the Dartmouth Dam, which it had earlier rejected, I have not yet received any official advice regarding this matter. AH I know is what has been reported in the Press. However, I take it to be correct that the South Australian Government will introduce legislation to ratify the original agreement to which it was a subscriber in the first place with the Commonwealth and the governments of New South Wales and Victoria. This will open the way for consideration of the commencement of work on the construction of this new water conservation project at Dartmouth on the Murray system. In the agreement there is a condition that if the original estimate of cost, which was about $57m, has escalated by more than 10 per cent, the matter must be referred back to the governments concerned for review and consideration. I cannot indicate whether the cost will have escalated beyond 10 per cent, but it is important to state that the estimate of cost has to be reviewed if there has been an increase of more than 10 per cent. I would make it quite clear that any problems associated with delays, which are now quite considerable and which affect the State of South Australia vitally are due solely to the action of the Premier of South Australia. 
The flood mitigation proposal, which has to be considered as an extension of the previous scheme, follows an arrangement which was made between the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth some years ago to assist in flood mitigation on a number of rivers in the northern part of New South Wales. Some additional rivers have been included in this new proposal, and I am sure that all members welcomed the proposal when it came before the House. Subsequent to that- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been discussions with Japanese authorities on the general subject of the market for nuclear fuel including enriched uranium but they have been of an exploratory nature only. 
During the discussions associated with tenders for the Jervis Bay project the tripartite consortium (United Kingdom, Holland and West Germany) indicated its possible interest in participation in a centrifugal uranium enrichment plant in Australia at some future time. U.S.A. has offered to discuss with a number of countries, including Australia, matters relating to the release of the U.S. gaseous diffusion technology. We have agreed to engage in these discussions without commitment. 
Uranium enrichment was discussed with the Canadian Government Mission led by the Honourable J. J. Greene, Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. The talks were of an exploratory nature only. 
and (7) In view of the current world emphasis on energy expansion, particularly in the nuclear field, together with the recent important discoveries of uranium in Australia, the Government has been actively pursuing preliminary studies regarding likely markets available to an Australian uranium enrichment industry. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission in the course of its normal responsibilities carries out continuing surveys of current and future supply and demand for nuclear materials and in recent months senior personnel from the Commission have had discussions with several overseas countries on enriched uranium markets and the market which might be available to Australia should it become involved in this technology. 
In addition, during June and July, I, together with the Secretary of my Department, had discussions in the U.S.A., Canada and Japan on somewhat related fields. 
No. But the AAEC for some years has been conducting laboratory scale experiments in centrifugal technology of uranium enrichment. 
No. But all tenderers indicated that before approval to export would be given, their respective Governments would require that the nuclear power station would be subject to Safeguards administered by the International Atomic Energy Agency in accordance with its Statute and Procedures. 
See (4) above. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information has been obtained through the International Civil Aviation Organisation as to the penalties imposed by some countries for aircraft hijacking. The United States of America is the only country which advised that the penalty for aircraft piracy1 is death. )n Australia, the death penalty is applicable for destroying an aircraft, or doing anything capable of prejudicing its safe operation, if done with the intent of cause the death of a person. 1 have no information as to which other countries have the death penalty for aircraft hijacking. 
Standing Inter-Departmental Committee on Japan (Question No. 3808) 
As the honourable member knows, the latter part to his question is a matter which concerns the State Government of New South Wales and any queries he has in relation to this, of course, he will naturally submit in that quarter. But as the- 
The Leader of the Opposition has just come to the second part of my answer relating to the Joint Coal Board, which has a responsibility to the 
Commonwealth and to the New South Wales Government for the production and distribution of coal. The position as far as the whole of New South Wales is concerned is as I indicated to the Leader of the Opposition just a couple of days ago, and I hope within a matter of a couple of days to be able to let him have some information about the survey that has been undertaken throughout the whole of Australia, including New South Wales. Thu survey which was undertaken separately by the Joint Coal Board in relation to supplies to cover industry in New South Wales indicates that there is no problem regarding the supply to industry in the future, nor is there any problem regarding the production of power in the future. 
The report that I have from the Joint Coal Board indicates that this situation can be covered. In addition to that, as I say, this report that will be available to me shortly covering the survey undertaken by the Bureau of Mineral Resources in conjunction with the Joint Coal Board and the various State departments will clearly indicate that the situation will be fully under control as far as supplies of all types of coal for power production and for industry in Australia are concerned, and will allow very substantial reserves for export. This is a very important industry in Australia today. The situation is being carefully watched, and as I indicated before, we will shortly be in possession of a report regarding the total reserves in Australia. 
 I would like to draw the attention of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  to the position regarding the Standing Orders and the normal arrangements of the House. The Standing Orders are designed to give honourable members an opportunity to bring before the House matters of importance to themselves or of public importance. There are procedures which are well known to all honourable members and there are times when these procedures can be used. There is question time and there is the debate on the motion to adjourn the House. There is also the Budget debate and later on the debate on the Estimates when matters of this nature can be discussed. I would like to point out that it has always been the custom of the House to follow the procedures which have been laid down but in addition if any honourable member feels that he desires to take some action after question time in relation to a matter which concerns him personally he can make a personal explanation, and this is done constantly in this House. 
If the procedures are to be changed this is a matter for consideration by the Standing Orders Committee. They cannot be changed on an ad hoc basis. It is my duty to ensure that there is an orderly procedure of business through the House. The procedures are laid down to try to ensure that situation. If outstanding or special circumstances exist which move an honourable member to seek leave to make a statement on some matter which concerns him directly, I have never known leave to be refused. That position still applies. But if suddenly, not following normal procedures, approaches of this kind are made - as have been made twice this week - they cannot be accepted unless there is some change in the normal procedures. Having listened to the honourable member for Corio and the seconder to the motion, and having indicated the position as far as the Government is concerned in relation to the Standing Orders and to the procedures of the House, I move: 
That the  question be now  put. 
Question put: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
The Transport Survey of Papua New Guinea compiled by  Sir William  Halcrow and Partners was received in the Department of Civil Aviation on 19th January 1970. 
The Minister for External Territories has provided the following answer: 
The precise findings as stated in Volume 1  of  the consultants' report Chapter 2 Section D2 under the heading  'Major Findings',  are: 
Para. 3 Control and regulation of international air services in the Territory by the Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation has been responsible for the development of these services to their present high standard. However, this degree of control is inconsistent wilh other aspects of Commonwealth policy regarding the transfer  of  executive powers to the Administration. 
Para. 8 In view of the high cost of the air services in the Territory both to the Government and to private users, the theoretical economic benefit of competition inherent in the two-airline policy is of questionable validity in the circumstances of the Territory. For this reason there is a case for examining the benefits of a single airline, in which the Administration could have a controlling financial interest, taking over the main internal routes and giving more room for the development of local services by local operators. 
Regarding paragraph 3, there is in fact no inconsistency; Commonwealth policy is for the' progressive transfer of powers in consultation with the wishes of the people of Papua New Guinea. The Civil Aviation power is one of a number of functions of Government that are exercised in the Territory by Commonwealth Departments and instrumentalities. As I announced on 3rd September 1970 the Government is reviewing the position of those Commonwealth Departments and instrumentalities that are performing functions of infernal self-government in Papua New Guinea outside the aegis of the Administration with a view to establishing a programme for the absorption of their Territory activities in appropriate cases into the Papua New Guinea Administration. 
Regarding paragraph 8, the November 1970 session of the House of Assembly decided to set up a Select Committee to consider and report on all aspects of the UNDP Transport Survey regarding modes of transport within the Territory and all aspects of transport, outside the Territory insofar as they affect transportation modes within the Territory. This Committee has not yet reported.' 
28th October 1970. 
The possibility of an equitable exchange of rights for an Australian carrier to serve Guam for rights for an American carrier to serve Port Moresby was raised with the United States authorities in Washington on 10th November 1970. The United States authorities are examining the request. Investigations have also been undertaken to determine the feasibility of an air service between Papua New Guinea and Guam being commenced by an Australian designated carrier if, and when, the necessary traffic rights become available. 
One indigene, N. Onzem, received assistance from Ansett Airlines of Papua New Guinea with his initial flying training prior to being awarded a Commonwealth Flying Scholarship in 1966-67. However, the scholarship was subsequently cancelled due to lack of progress. 
No other indigenes have been trained as pilots by or for Ansett companies since November 1964. 
However, in this period, 3 Indigenes, M. Peni A. Bou and B. Awui, who also received Commonwealth Frying Scholarships, have qualified as commercial pilots. Of these, Peni and Bou were employed initially by Papuan Airlines Ltd and, since this company was taken over by the Ansett Organisation, have been employed as first officers on DC3 aircraft operated by Ansett Airlines of Papua New Guinea. 
The following details have now been ascertained from the management of Trans-Australia Airlines: 
The nature of TAA's flying operations in Papua New Guinea and the standard of airmanship which these operations demand is such that a pilot must have basic qualifications and previous flying experinece in order to assimilate the advanced training which is required prior to qualification as an airline pilot. 
Airline operations over a long period of time have shown the desirable minimum in this respect to be Commercial Pilot Licence standard and at least 500 hours of previous aeronautical experience before joining the Airline. 
The only exception to this rule of thumb for many years has been the 2 cadet pilot courses which TAA conducted during that time, but these are not regarded as being truly representative because the selection standards for the entrants was abnormally high and not suitable for application in Papua New Guinea. 
It should be noted also that a number of pilots acquire significant flying experience in the armed' services, which provides them with an excellent background on which to build an airline career. 
Most pilots, however, acquire training to the level stipulated, through aero clubs, flying schools and general aviation, and TAA believes that such activity is essential to the growth and development of the general aviation sector of the industry. TAA is not equipped, either on the mainland or in Papua New Guinea, to provide elementary and intermediate flight training, because it considers that the development of pilots within general aviation is of mutual benefit to both branches of the aviation industry. 
This relationship already exists, in fact, in Papua New Guinea and the general aviation activities in the area do provide a suitable background for potential airline candidates. 
In respect, TAA has demonstrated a practical interest by training and employing indigenous flight traffic officers on Twin Otter operations. This position brings the individual into direct contract with the operational and flying environment 
As part of its developmental role in Papua New Guinea, TAA has a positive interest in promoting opportunities for young indigenes who are motivated towards a career in aviation and looks forward to the employment in the early future of indigene pilots who have gained the experience and qualifications necessary to enter airline flying. 
Civil Aviation: Noise Abatement at Airports (Question No. 3241) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (0 The Department of Civil Aviation has adopted the policy that all future instrument landing systems will have the glide slope component adjusted to three degrees. 
The Department has decided that all existing systems will be modified so that the glide slope component will conform to a three degree angle. This decision involves a good deal of  expense  in terms of equipment and labour, and the modification programme will ensure that the adjustments are made when other compatible work is being carried out at the facility or the locality. 
The glide slopes of the following systems have been set at three degrees: Alice Springs, Avalon, Canberra, Essendon,Hobart, Launceston, Perth. 
As indicated, modifications to other instrument landing systems, which require about 30 days will be effected on a programmed basis and the Following information relates to the programme for Melbourne and Sydney: 
Melbourne - 16 runway - towards the end of 1971 27 runway - early 1972 
Sydney - 16 Runway- middle 1972 34 runway - towards the end of 1972 07 runway - yet to be determined. 
The 16 ILS at Melbourne is out of commission during the current extensions to the 16/34 runway. It will becommissioned at 3 degrees on completion of those works. 
Meanwhile the Melbourne 27 ILS must be kept in service. It cannot be modified until after the 3 degrees 16 ILS is available; it is planned to do this modification early in 1972. 
If the 16 ILS at Sydney were modified now then it would be out of service for about 30 days, during which period it would be necessary to divert alt aircraft requiring this facility to the 07 ILS. It was therefore decided  to  defer this modification until the second quarter of 1972 and coincident with some major reconstruction which is planned for the northern end of the north/south runway on completion of the southerly extensions to that runway. This timing will result in least interference to the local noise abatement measures as a whole. 
The 34 ILS at Sydney is a new installation which cannot be completed until both the runway extension and the reconstruction of the northern end of the runway is completed. Its initial commissioning will be. at 3 degrees. 
The 07 ILS at Sydney, in being raised to 3 degrees, poses some very serious technical problems. The Department hopes that these problems will be resolved by using a Redlich glide slope antenna, recently developed by the Sydney University, which is now In the production stage. 
 Mr Speaker,  as this is a matter of some importance to individual members, the Government has no objection to it being referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Civil  Aviation  has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. -  
The area is required for the future extension of the building area at Bankstown Airport. 
Negotiations for the purchase of the land have been adjourned, at the request of the owner, and I am unable to advise the estimated cost of acquisition at this time. 
The land is at present zoned 'open space'. The owner of the land has applied to the. State Planning authorities to have the land rezoned industrial'. The Commonwealth has requested that the land be rezoned 'special uses (for aviation purposes)'. 
The Department of Civil Aviation is not aware of any proposal by the Bankstown Council to acquire the golf course for public recreation. 
Negotiations for the acquisition of the golf course land by the Commonwealth commenced in 1968 when the owner offered to sell the land to the Department of Civil Aviation. The owner subsequently adjourned his negotiations when he applied to have the land rezoned 'industrial'. 
It is planned that the R.A.A.F. will vacate this area when accommodation is provided by the R.A.A.F. at another location. 
The area is approximately IS acres. It is not known when the area will be vacated by the R.A.A.F. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable 'member's question: 
Yes. The Australia-U.S.A. passenger market on the South Pacific air route increased by about information is currently available, 4,973 or 74 per cent of the 6,726 students enrolled in medical degree courses (including medical science) were receiving Commonwealth University Scholarships benefits. 
and (6) My Department is at present engaged in the preparation of the Bulletin to be entitled 'Scholarships and Cadetships in Australia for Australian Students'. This publication will contain details of scholarships and cadetships offered by Commonwealth and State governments and agencies, tertiary institutions, the armed services, private industry and other institutions. Benefits available to medical students will be included in this Bulletin and I have arranged for the honourable member to receive a copy as soon as it is printed. (7)(i) The Commonwealth contributes towards the total recurrent expenditure of universities $1 for each $1.85 provided by State contributions and fees. However, recurrent grants are not normally earmarked for particular areas of university activity and it is the responsibility of each university to determine the allocation of its resources. It is therefore not possible to advise as to the amounts of recurrent grants that are provided by Commonwealth and State for medical schools.. 
Specific recurrent grants are provided by the Commonwealth and the States as a contribution towards the teaching costs incurred in medical teaching hospitals and the following table sets out the total grants (Commonwealth plus State) approved by governments for this purpose in the 1967-69 and 1970-72 triennia 31,000 passengers in the year ended June 1971. The rate of increase in 1970-71, however, was lower than in 1969-70. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
There is a general trend towards larger and usually quieter and more economical aircraft which may wish to use our capital city airports. This does not necessarily mean that longer runways will be required. 
There are several types of aircraft under consideration by. the domestic airlines but it is understood that their final selection and the proposed timing of their introduction has not yet been determined. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No estimate has been made but it would certainly cost tens of millions of dollars for the airport and its terminal facilities. In addition there would be a very heavy commitment by the State or Local Governments to provide high speed road access. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Department is only investigating the consequences of certain'' airline aircraft equipment proposals in their effects on ground facility requirements. This is done in order that the airlines and the Government may better judge the consequences of any new aircraft types which are being considered by the airlines in recreation to public demand. The investigations cover the 22 major airports in Australia ' and Papua New Guinea, of which Adelaide is one. 
The Minister for Civil. Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: . 
and (2) Land use zoning outside the boundaries of an airport. is a State and Local Government matter. It is for this reason that the Department of Civil Aviation works very closely with State Planning Authorities in terms of height restrictions at the approaches to the airport and Noise Exposure Forecasts. The Department provides the State Planning Authority .and, as required, the Local Government Authorites with the best available Noise Exposure Forecasts to assist in their land use planning near airports. This applies to the establishment and protection the new airports and to the re-development of areas adjacent some of the older airports. 
In providing these Noise Exposure Forecasts the Department also provides an American assessment of land use compatibility in the vicinity of airports. The adoption and manner of applying this assessment is very much a State and Local Government matter. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The land on which Adelaide Airport is situated cost $896,443. . The Commonwealth Taxation Valuers now value the land at approximately $16ra. However, this capital gain in land values does not take account of the very substantial investment in, and replacement value of, specialist aviation facilities - runways, taxiways - and aircraft parking aprons as well as hangars and terminal facilities- which would be lost should the land be converted to some other use. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
I would not have thought that Adelaide, in comparison with other Australian cities, has a shortage of recreation space and, in fact, the impression is rather to the contrary. However, you will appreciate that this is only a personal impression. 
The conclusion built into the question is not necessarily correct A major extension of the runway towards the south-west would cut into the existing sporting arenas but it is also probable that this loss of land can be offset by comparable amounts of land being made available and prepared for sport from within the existing airport boundaries. It is for this reason that the Department's airport planners work very closely with the State Planning Authorities. (3a) It would require a re-alignment of Tapley's Hill Road, at least part of which, along with changes to Military Road, is under consideration by the local highways authority. In fact, it was seeking an answer to an approach from the highways authority, when the authority was considering upgrading Tapley's Hill and Military Roads, which caused the review of possible airport needs at this time. (3b) It is understood that improvements to the lower section of the Patawalonga proposed by the highway authority will not be affected. However, that section of the Patawalonga passing through the golf course would need to be diverted. The runway would not extend this far but one element of the instrument landing system is installed 1,000 feet beyond the end of the extended runway and that land within the 1,000 feet must be level to ensure the integrity of the landing aid. (3c) It is believed that any modification would be limited to. the Patawalonga diversion from within the golf course as earlier mentioned. These modifications do not appear to have any direct bearing on the drainage scheme as a whole. (3d) It is understood' that the capacity of Military Road would need to be increased. However, it is suggested that the question should be addressed to the highway authority. (3e) Noise nuisance patterns will depend upon aircraft types which are selected. However, in general terms, the coming years should see a reduction in noise in proportion to aircraft size. The B747 jumbo jet, for example, though three times the capacity of the B707, is marginally quieter. (3f) and (4) It is understood that any airport need would not lead to home acquisitions for road purposes. However, a rather more general realignment of roads is believed to be under consideration and the question should be addressed to the highway authority. 
It is very doubtful whether it is possible to devise objective criteria along the lines suggested. Rather, the Department, in working closely with the State Planning authorities, does everything possible to make alternative arrangements for recreational areas. The Department, wherever possible, is willing to lease land, which is within the airport boundaries, for long term use as recreational areas. Similarly, the Department works very closely with State and Local Government planning interests to ensure the maximum compatibility between airport operations and nearby land use. It is not necessarily correct to say that an airport reduces nearby land values. There is considerable evidence to the contrary. In fact, finding answers to drainage problems and initiating or extending engineering services in creating Adelaide Airport, made it possible to develop some of its nearby areas. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The following table shows tha amounts paid to the operators in Western Australia in respect of the provision of regular developmental air services during the last 3 years: 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent Government Business taking precedence of General Business on each sitting day until the Appropriation Bill (No.  t)  1971-72 has passed all stages in the House. 
This motion is introduced again this year as it has been introduced in previous years. It has become traditional that general business be suspended during the period of the Budget debate and the debate on the Estimates relating to the main Appropriation Bill. I have had taken out some records relating to similar motions moved in previous years. I have not gone any further back than 1963. In each year from 1963 to 1970 motions of a similar nature have been introduced and passed by this House. The main reason for moving this motion is that when the Budget is being debated all aspects of governmental business can be debated and when the Estimates are being considered all matters associated with each department can be covered. This is now a traditional motion and I commend it to the House. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Tasmania has not yet amended its Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) legislation but the Government has indicated its intention to do so. The necessary amending legislation has been passed in South Australia and is effective. In New South Wales, legislation has been passed and will come into operation shortly. 
Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications  (Question No. 3694) 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following table shows the first class and economy class fares in cents per mile between Sydney and major points on Qantas' routes: 
The percentage figure quoted by the honourable member is reasonably accurate at the present time but he knows, and I think that the House knows, that the self-sufficiency figure in Australia will go up to approximately 70 per cent during the next couple of years. However, unless further substantia] deposits of liquid petroleum are discovered in the period from about 1975 onwards, our percentage of selfsufficiency in liquid petroleum will commence to decline. I am not referring to the supply of natural gas of which some additional deposits recently have been discovered. Of course, self-sufficiency in natural gas is a different matter altogether. But the question of oil exploration is vitally important for Australia. At present there is a considerable degree of exploration work both off-shore and on-shore although the total expenditure in this field is a little less than we would like to see in the existing circumstances. However, I draw attention to the fact that Australia is subsidising, to a degree, exploration work that takes place, particularly on-shore. This applies especially to Australian companies. 
In addition, I have made it clear by recent public statements and also  by  correspondence with the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association that a review of the whole incentive system will take place before the end of this calendar year. Some submissions were made by APEA some months ago. They were considered at that time by the Government but because of the then economic situation and the stringent restrictions being applied by the Commonwealth to its spending, it was considered that it would not be possible to extend any incentive schemes at that time, although the subject could be reviewed before the end of the calendar year. This Government has asked APEA to make further submissions if it so desires and, indeed, only this morning I received a letter from the  Chairman  of APEA indicating that its previous submissions still stand. They will be taken into consideration when the review is made before the end of the calendar year and subsequently the matter will be reconsidered by the Government. 
by leave - I move: 
That the following Orders of the Day, Government Business, be discharged. 
No. 44 Commonwealth Parliamentary Association - Sixteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference - Report of Delegation from Commonwealth of Australia Branch. 
No. 46 Tariff Policy- Ministerial Statement. 
No. 47 Taxation- Statutory Definition of  a  Public Company - Ministerial Statement. 
No. 48 International Affairs - Ministerial Statement and Paper. 
No. 51 Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures in Australia - Report. 
No. 52 Devaluation Compensation for Rural Industries - Ministerial Statement. 
No. S3 Migration and Settlement Agreement with Malta - Ministerial Statement. 
No. 57 United Kingdom Levies on Imports of Agricultural Commodities - Ministerial Statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The question is that the motion be agreed to. 
In view of the circumstances, as Leader of the House, I will withdraw this motion. There is no intention on the part of the Government to have anything removed from the notice paper if it should still remain there. However, it has been customary over the years to review the situation every few months. There are always a number of dead items on the notice paper that are removed by agreement. The customary procedure was pursued on this occasion, but, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has pointed out, Caucus did not have the opportunity of reviewing the proposal that had been put forward. In these circumstances, with the concurrence of the House I should like to withdraw the motion and renew it again after the Opposition Caucus has had an opportunity to review the motion. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
The continuing lament which substitutes for Opposition policy has become so repetitive in this debate that I feel that perspective should be restored in regard to the Budget. It cannot be stressed too often that despite Opposition criticism, problems in the rural sector of the economy and international inflationary pressures, Australia has one of the brightest and certain futures of most countries. Despite the deflationary action taken by the Government in the Budget, it is unchallengeable that Australia has one of the strongest economies. It has a substantial growth rate; it has enormous prospects for future growth; and it has a government which is prepared to accept its responsibilities and to act, as it is now doing, in a constructive way. Despite this, I cannot over-emphasise how seriously the Commonwealth regards the problem of inflation. The Government continuously gives consideration to statistics and reports on trends and has given yet another lead in this Budget by dramatically pruning Commonwealth departmental expenditures. Conferences have been held with the States, with national, primary and secondary industrial groups, with commerce and with employer and employee organisations to obtain a cross-section of views to assist national economic judgment. 
In other words, the Government has shown and is still showing its determination to contain inflationary pressures at an acceptable level with every means in its control, and 1 am sure the nation as a whole has endorsed the actions taken and sentiments expressed. However, it is essential that proper perspective be maintained. Everyone knows that inflation is universal, that the higher costs of materials and goods purchased by one country from another are reflected in increased internal prices which, in turn, influence the cost of living. Everyone knows too that decisions on wages by the Commonwealth Concilia tion and Arbitration Commission and other tribunals have immediate repercussions on national and State economies and help perpetuate the wages-cost spiral, lt is not within the power of the Commonwealth Government to control these 2 major facts. However, the Government does not deny the great responsibility that devolves upon it to do everything within its power to offset inflation by its own example, or by following monetary policies that will ensure the rate of inflation does not exceed the growth in national productivity. It is able to do this with reasonable confidence, because governmental planning for the future has been responsible for the fixing of national goals, and there is every reason to believe its predictions of growth and diversification will come true. 
Briefly, the Government aspires, among other things, to a high rate of economic expansion, a growing population and work force, better educated children and full employment. The solid base for national development along these lines was laid down throughout the 1960s. This decade will see the structure grow. In the Government's view, economic growth will be determined by fundamentals which might reasonably be expected to remain the central features of development in the future. These are a constant rate of population growth; a high rate of public and private investment; the encouragement, along with our rural industries, of continued industrial expansion and diversification; and the exploitation of mineral resources. These are fundamentals well known to us all. It is the Government's accepted duty and, indeed, the aim of all Australians to work towards their continued conversion into fact. But let us look at some of the achievements the success of these basic policies implemented by this Government has made possible. In the last 10 years our exports have doubled and our work force has grown from under 4,000,000 to well over 5,000,000. And there is virtually full employment. There has been, and there continues to be, a spectacular rate of growth due in part to a high rate of capital inflow. This is proof, if ever it were needed, of the regard in which Australia is held by world financiers. Greatly increased sums have been provided for education and federal spending, as announced in the Budget, will this year rise by 14 per cent to $346m. Pensions and repatriation benefits have again been increased and social welfare spending in the current year is estimated at $2,095m. 
The sum of $100m has been allocated already for the development of national water resources in a 5-year programme. Assistance to rural industries in various forms is expected to total $275m this year. That is $65m more than last year. The current 5-year Commonwealth aid roads agreement will cost $l,252m, an increase of 67 per cent over the previous agreement. Expanded measures assist Aboriginals with housing, education and health, and encourage viable Aboriginal businesses. The means test has been tapered and taxation concessions provided as an incentive to saving and to thrift. 
These are but a few of the highlights of the Government's internal achievements in the last 3 years alone. But they are sufficient to indicate that the whole intent of the Liberal-Country Party Government is to further the advancement of our nation and the welfare of its people. And that brings me to some aspects of the Budget' completely pertinent to this Government's policy. It is sometimes and misguidedly suggested that the Commonwealth takes all and gives little. This, of course, is not so. In this Budget, for instance, payments to the States go up by 15 per cent to $3,280m, more than a third of the total estimated expenditure. Social welfare, as I mentioned a moment ago, will this year absorb $2,095m, and education $346m. Dealing with defence, everyone wants a secure Australia. The Federal Government's policy is predicated on this. But it has to be paid for. This year, expenditure on defence is up by $117m to Si, 252m. These 4 items alone - payments to the States, social welfare, education and defence - account for $6,983m out of a total anticipated expenditure of $8,833m. I have not mentioned payments to rural and other industry of S274m, advances for capital purposes $495m, including $56m for Qantas Airways Ltd to buy new aircraft, or departmental running expenses which, principally because of salary and wage increases, will increase by $84m. These are the facts of expenditure that combine to produce one of the world's highest standards of living within a secure nation. 
But, of course, money must be found to provide these things as well as to combat inflation. So the Government changed the company tax system to yield $24m, lifted the personal income tax levy by  2i  per cent to yield $68m, raised the excise on tobacco and petrol to yield $157m and increased radio and television licence fees to yield $llm. The Government regrets the need to do this, but makes no apology for this action. It has acted responsibly and honestly with only one consideration in mind - the ordered advancement of our nation. Responsible economics are dictated by budgetary planning, not politics. Politics and very little economics have featured in the Opposition's reply to the Budget. This is not nearly good enough for the people of Australia. 
I should now like to deal with some activities associated with my Department of National Development. The Australian economy has undergone a marked transition in recent years with minerals and mineral products now providing a dramatically increased share in export earnings. Mineral exports have risen from 5 per cent in 1949-50 to 6 per cent in 1959-60 and 24 per cent in 1969-70. This is due largely to growth in trade with Japan, which now takes about 54 per cent of our minerals exports. The importance of minerals in the Australian economy is firmly established and it is vital that Australia makes optimum use of these natural resources to ensure continued national prosperity. Particularly through its Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics, my Department has played a leading role in the discovery and assessment of Australian mineral resources. Bureau activities in the fields of geology and geophysics have won wide recognition and, coupled with the work of State geological surveys and private mineral exploration groups, add up to a national achievement of the greatest significance. Exports of Australian minerals and mine products are increasing at a rapid rate. In 1970 they were worth a record $Al,139m compared with $A865m in 1969. Iron ore, bauxite and black coal are the biggest factors in this growth. The Pilbara region of Western Australia has become one of the world's most important sources of high grade iron ore. Last year more than 80 per cent of the 50,000,000 tons of iron ore produced was exported, 88 per cent of it to Japan. That nation has contracted to buy Australian iron ore worth nearly $7 ,000m up to 1992. The Pilbara, the source of most of the export iron ore, is being developed at a high rate. By next -year, production is planned at about 70 million tons a year, and capacity capable of producing 100 million tons is proposed by 1975, dependent on an upturn in steel production as compared with the original forecast. Raw steel production by Australia's only steelmaker, the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, is expected to rise from last year's 6.7 million tons to more than 9 million tons by 1973. 
Black coal is produced in every State except Victoria, where large deposits of brown coal are tapped for electricity generation. New South Wales is the leading black coal producer and in 1969-70 supplied 34.9 million tons of the 47.5 million tons produced. Queensland supplied 9.3 million tons, about half the 17.5 million tons exported. Bowen Basin, in Central Queensland, is the scene of great coal mining activity with several new fields being opened up to help supply the coking coal needs of the Japanese steel industry. Existing operations in Queensland and New South Wales have been enlarged and exports which were worth about SI 78m in 1970 are expected to exceed S300m a year by 1973. 
Australia has become one of the world's largest producers of bauxite and alumina following development of a number of large deposits, among them Weipa on Cape York Peninsula, the largest known bauxite field in the world. Weipa is estimated to have reserves of at least 2,000 million tons. Bauxite production rose from 7,796,003 tons in 1 969 to an estimated 9,240,667 tons in 1970. At Gove an alumina refinery is to come on stream next year, treating bauxite mined in the area. It is also possible that an alumina refinery will be built at Weipa by 1975 or 1976, thus adding considerably to alumina production, which in 1970 reached a record level of 2,104,106 tons. The Queensland Alumina Ltd alumina plant at Gladstone in Queensland is expanding and by the end of 1972 it will have a capacity of 2 million tons a year. Aluminium production in 1970 reached a record level of 201,000 tons. Smelters operating at Point Henry in Victoria, Bell Bay in Tasmania and Kurri Kurri in New South Wales accounted for this production. 
Australia is the world's biggest producerexporter of the 2 main titanium-bearing minerals, rutile and ilmenite, leading the field in the production of rutile and holding a high place on the list of principal ilmenite producers, Australia also is the world's leader in production of zircon, which is the other main commercially valuable component of mineral sands. Other minerals of rising importance on the Australian scene include nickel, which has been discovered in quantity in Western Australia and Queensland, and copper. In addition, more than 2,000 million tons of phosphate rock have been discovered in north Queensland and studies are being made into the feasibility of transporting the rock from the largest deposit, Lady Annie, 160 miles to a new port in the Gulf of Carpentaria. 
With the commissioning of the Kingfish field in Bass Strait in April this year, Australia will soon become 70 per cent self sufficient in crude petroleum, but new discoveries will be needed to maintain this position. In 1970 natural gas production rose sixfold to 53,000 million cubic feet. The mining industry is clearly an important participant in Australia's future. Our future prosperity depends in no small way on the successful exploitation and development of our natural resources. The past few years have been a large and relatively troublefree expansion in the production and export of minerals and metals in Australia. Announcements of future plans for production suggest that the rate of expansion would continue well into this decade, lt would now appear that the expansion in certain areas is not to be without its problems. 
On a world basis the growth in demand for some minerals has not been as high as forecast. The minerals where production is growing rapidly - iron ore, coal, bauxitealumina, nickel and salt - are minerals, reserves of which have, or are being shown to be quite extensive and for which there is a large overseas market. Japan plays a dominant part in the marketing of our production in all of these minerals and has been a major element in providing a rapidly expanding market for us. Many of the present difficulties arise from the halt in Japan's growth rate, and that country's ability to regain its previous rate of expansion is likely to be influenced by the present monetary developments and the existence of the United States 10 per cent surcharge on imports. Both these factors could influence Japan's ability to export the finished products produced from the Australian raw materials. Despite these trends, the long term prospects for the export of minerals, including uranium, which I have not time to discuss in detail tonight, indicate a growing rate of contribution to our national economy. Large ports are being developed in many parts of Australia to facilitate the economic handling of raw materials, while mineral deposits are being worked with a high degree of skill and efficiency. Australia, already a force in the international minerals market, appears certain to be a significant source of basic and processed minerals and metals required by the world's manufacturing industries for many years to come. This is one aspect of Australia today that the Opposition fails to mention when painting its picture of economic gloom. In conclusion, I commend the Budget as a sensible and responsible approach to the economic situation and economic policy of this financial year and again reject completely the arguments that have been put forward by the Opposition in endeavouring to denigrate a country of an undoubted present and a great future. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On the basis of the most recent information published in the aviation press Boeing 747 aircraft are operated by companies and on routes indicated in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The inventory of Australian black coal reserves by the Bureau of Mineral Resources was substantially completed in March, 1971. Some additional reserve figures still had to be obtained to complete the inventory and these figures were to hand by June, 1971. The inventory will appear in the BMR Australian Mineral Industry Quarterly Review - June 1971, which is to be released on 12th September, next. An. advance copy of the Review has been forwarded to the honourable member. 
Much of the responsibility of my portfolio touches on matters involving the States and consequently it is necessary that I frequently meet State Ministers both formally and informally on various aspects associated with my portfolio. This is a continuing process, I can reassure the honourable member that the coking coal situation is the subject of careful examination by the Commonwealth and consultation between myself and my State Ministerial colleagues. 
Trade with Great Britain  (Question No. 2270) 
It is a fact that when the Prime Minister announced the extension of the national water resources development programme last year he indicated that the scheme would be extended to cover small dams as well as some other matters- Last year, I think it was in April,the Western Australian Minister for Wate Supplies submitted to me proposals foi inclusion in the programme. Some of th( items he submitted are presently under consideration. In the submission the Minister referred to 10 dams that he termed key dams, that is, small dams to be built in different areas at an estimated cost of about $lm. I think that was the estimate given at the time. These were to be located in areas outside the Comprehensive Agricultural Water Scheme which operates in Western Australia. We referred the matter back to Western Australia indicating that the item could be considered under the scheme and documentation could be submitted for processing. That is where the matter rests at the moment. We have not yet received the documentation. I understand that it takes a considerable time to conduct the necessary surveys. As soon as the documents relating to the 10 key dams are received we will know exactly the areas in which it is intended to construct them and we will then be able to examine the position. 
I will refer this question to my colleague in another place and obtain an answer for the honourable member. 
A few years ago, when I was Minister for Civil Aviation we established a committee to investigate this matter. A considerable amount of work has been undertaken on and a lengthy study has been made on what is a. very important project. As has been indicated by the Minister for Civil Aviation, the report was received some time ago and has been under study by his Department. Only a few days ago he announced that the.' studies have been completed. The matter is now under consideration by the Government and the Minister expects to be in a position to make a statement in the other place in the near future. I understand that when that statement is being made, a similar statement will be provided to me which I shall be able to make in this House. 
 Mr Speaker,  this is certainly a serious matter which reflects on the integrity of all members of this  Parlia- ment. 1 am sure that every honourable member will support the motion before the House. I support the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The operating experience of the SGHW reactor at Winfrith in die United Kingdom and referred to in Part (1) of this question provides the basis for reasonable confidence in the safety, reliability and performance of the SGHW reactor. The Winfrith reactor is an integral part of the Centra] Electricity Generating Board's grid and has operated satisfactorily as a base load and a load following station for more than 3 years. I would also point out that much of the experience gained with other types of reactors is applicable to SGHW systems. 
Operational experience so far with light water reactors is sufficient to justify the answer which I gave to the honourable member's question 
No. 2843, namely, that boiling water reactors and pressurised water reactors, which are the 2 main types of light water power reactors, can be. built today with reasonable confidence in their safety, reliability and performance. I pointed out in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 2843 that it is not possible to say whether a reactor system is 'fully proved' without knowing what the honourable member understands by this terminology. The same comment applies to the honourable member's use of the term'proven' in the present question. The question of how many reactors it is necessary to have operating and for what length of time to provide for 'adequate development' or to establish a system as 'proven' is a matter of technical judgement. 
I do not understand how my answer to question No. 2843 can be considered misleading. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) Up  to  about the time that this question was asked, conditions in the Hume catchment had been dry, and there was very little snow in the upper catchment. The demand for irrigation supplies in the system had already begun, and there was a distinct possibility that there would be little, if any, spill from Hume storage. In this situation, since the primary responsibility of the Commission is to ensure adequate supplies for irrigation, stock, domestic, urban and industrial water supplies, the Commission's policy is to ensure that such supplies will not be wasted by excess releases early in the season. 
 The Secretary of the Albury-Wodonga Flood 
Committee has written to the River Murray Commission along the lines referred to in questions 2, 3, 4 and 5. I would stress however, that at that time, 2nd August, release of additional water would have involved some risk to future supplies in the River Murray system. 
It is clearly impossible to ensure that there is no danger of flooding due to seasonal change, unless of course it is desired to try to have the storage virtually empty at the end of the winter period, in the hope that large floods which occasionally occur in the spring can be controlled. Such action however would be completely incompatible with the principal purpose of the Commission referred to above, with which I assume the honourable member entirely agrees. This is not to say however that the storage cannot provide some measure of flood mitigation, and it is the policy of the River Murray Commission to operate the storage in such a way as to achieve such flood mitigation as is possible, consistent with the primary water supply objective. 
The question of softwood plantings and the assistance given to the States by the Commonwealth was reviewed at a recent meeting of the Australian Forestry Council and a recommendation was forwarded from that Council to the Commonwealth for consideration. It was announced at the time that there would be a substantial increase in the total amount made available to the States for additional softwood plantings for the next period of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, and this amount was accepted by the States. 
At the last meeting of the Australian Forestry Council, which was chaired by my colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise in my absence at that time, this matter was discussed at length and it was indicated that the agreement depended on conditions relating to increased allocations by the States for further softwood plantings in all the States concerned. There are however some problems associated with this matter and it has been referred back to the Commonwealth by the States. We have undertaken to review certain aspects of it, and at the present time arrangements are being made for further discussions to take place between the Commonwealth and the States. After these discussions have been concluded and the matter has been reconsidered by all the governments concerned 1 will inform the honourable member. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make has already been made to the Senate by my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  Copies of the statement as delivered by him are now being circulated for the information of honourable members. 
After much detailed work and consideration a definite stage has now been reached in the plans and proposals for the airport needs of Sydney. As well as being the largest and oldest city in the Commonwealth, Sydney is also the principal gateway for people flying to and from Australia. Aviation is a growth industry. Although it is only a relatively young transport arm, it has in recent years exhibited dramatic growth rates. Its capacity for technological development is well know to all of us and because of our vast distances between major centres of population, Australia has relied heavily on its most important advantage, that is speed. But while it has brought our most remote centres within hours of the capital cities in every State of the Commonwealth, aviation has continued to demand a substantial share of the national resources. Although these resources are of course limited, it should be remembered that civil aviation is growing at a faster rate than the national growth rate. 
The industry's progress has demanded a high degree of forward planning and expertise not only in the air but also on the ground in the development of airports and ground facilities. Take just one example. 
Early in 1969 the Commonwealth Government set up an interdepartmental committee, comprising representatives of the Department of Civil Aviation, the Department of the Interior, the Treasury and the Department of Works to advise the Government on the major airport requirements for Sydney. In particular the committee, under the chairmanship of the Department of Civil Aviation, was asked to consider the need for a second airport and, if this was established, to consider and report upon its location. Fully realising that this was a matter of great importance to the whole community, the Minister for Civil Aviation, when questioned over recent months, has pointed out that he would report on the matter as soon as it was practicable for him to do do. 1 am now in a position to inform the House of the results of the committee's work as well as the decisions taken by the Government after considering its report, lt has also been judged appropriate to make this statement available concurrently to our colleagues in the State Parliament of New South Wales, through' the Premier, and to the community at large. 
The interdepartmental committee was created following the preliminary investigations which the Department of Civil Aviation had been carrying out over a number of years. For some time the Department had been conscious of an ultimate need to provide additional airport capacity for Sydney and its investigations had covered both the extension of the present airport site as well as a general study of areas around Sydney where a second airport could be established in due course when it was needed. In its consideration of locations where a second airport might be established, the Department appreciated the difficulty in finding suitable places within a reasonable distance of Sydney. 
A modern airport requires a large area of land, particularly if it is to cater for aircraft used on international services. It must also have obstruction-free approaches and be located on reasonably flat ground if construction costs are to be kept within acceptable limits. Airports are expensive assets and belong to the whole community. Once established it is vitally important that they are able to be located in areas where there is ample opportunity to have them adequately separated from the surrounding development that a large and fast growing metropolis like the Newcastle, Sydney, Wollongong complex brings in its train. In these respects, the terrain around Sydney seriously restricts the number of alternative locations for such an airport. Also, the extent of built-up areas around Sydney precludes the use of a number of otherwise suitable areas. 
In its earlier considerations, the Department carefully examined a great number of locations and was able to reduce these to about a dozen, which then needed much more careful consideration individually in a number of respects. Honourable members will agree, I am sure, that it was right and proper for a Commonwealth interdepartmental committee to be first to study the second airport proposal. The Commonwealth has a very heavy responsibility in providing and maintaining the major airports in this country and is therefore in a good position to establish the national requirements as a whole. In examining the future airport requirements for Sydney, the committee first of all had to consider the probable growth in aircraft movements in air services of various classes for quite a long time ahead. Such predictions are complex and not necessarily precise as the actual growth can be influenced by unforeseen circumstances. 
 Careful consideration of the capacity attainable in peak periods at Sydney Airport was also necessary. This depends on many factors such as weather conditions, the air traffic control facilities available, the mixture of aircraft types and noise abatement procedures. The committee found it necessary to take account of the various factors in order to arrive at capacity figures which could be used for comparison with the future traffic predictions. I am familiar with the voluminous working papers which the committee considered and I would like to say we must all be most impressed by the thoroughness with which these aspects of the task were approached. 
The committee determined that additional airport capacity, over and above that of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport in its present form, would be required in the late 1970s. The committee also concluded that even if the present airport is improved and its capacity increased, there will still be a need for a second airport. Depending upon the improvements made at Mascot and the growth in the traffic which it serves, the second airport will most probably be required no later than the early 1980s. From many points of view, Mascot is an excellent site for an airport, being within 8 miles of the centre of Sydney and surrounded to a large extent by Botany Bay. The value of its proximity to Sydney is all the more important as we now know that, with the particular problems of siting a new airport in the Sydney area, this could easily be about 40 miles or more from the centre of the city. Mascot also forms an integral part of a fast developing transport complex in which road, rail and ports are linked with the airport. 
In making these comments I am not overlooking some of the problems of the present site, its restricted area and the disturbances caused in some residential areas by aircraft noise. Its location in relation to the centre of metropolitan Sydney is therefore extremely important if the air services using the airport are to meet the community needs. Obviously, there is therefore some conflict between the interests of Sydney as a whole, both now and in the future, and the interests of communities adjacent to the airport. A reasonable balance between these interests would not be achieved by accepting the propositions put by some sections that Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport should not be developed, or that it should even be abandoned. 
The Minister has previously stated his view that we are committed to the present airport indefinitely. That it should remain and be developed was the view also expressed by the Chifley and Scullin governments, lt currently represents a book value investment of $167m, $ll2m of this from public funds and $55m from private enterprise. It would cost hundreds of millions of dollars to replace. We cannot afford, nor do we intend, to throw away such a valuable and important community asset which, despite some difficult noise problems, has very great advantages by comparison with any other potential airport site. The new runway, extending into Botany Bay and over 13,000 feet in length when it comes into operation early in 1972, will make the airport a better neighbour to the community and more operationally effective. 
The Department of Civil Aviation has studied the noise problems very carefully - and will continue to do so - and a great deal has been done to limit its severity. The various measures currently being taken add to the operating costs of the airline industry quite substantially and with other measures which will gradually have effect in the future, the situation will be kept under reasonable control. The Department is currently preparing a comprehensive noise monitoring system for this airport which I hope will be installed next year. It is not often appreciated that this Department, that is, the Department of Civil Aviation, has played a leading role in world aviation organisations aimed at dealing with the noise problem and production of quieter engines. 
While it is, of course, intended to retain the present curfew, it is not only up to the civil aviation industry and the Department of Civil Aviation to limit the effects of aircraft noise. In the long term a great deal can be achieved by proper planning in areas adjacent to the airport. In this connection the Department of Civil Aviation is offering all the assistance it can to the local authorities as well as to the State Government, which has the authority outside the airport boundaries. 
For some time the Department of Civil Aviation has been carefully examining alternative proposals for increasing the capacity of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. No secret has been made of the fact that improvements such as parallel runways involving extensions into Botany Bay have been under examination. These investigations are still proceeding in consultation with appropriate elements of the aviation industry and the New South Wales State Government. The inter departmental committee was acquainted with alternative proposals for the development of Mascot and was able to consider in general terms the differing effects of such proposals in meeting the airport needs for Sydney. 
Having reached this point, the Committee turned its attention to alternative locations for a second airport and it reviewed the dozen or so locations which the Department believed had any prospect at all of accommodating a major airport. One of the first things to be determined for each location was the rough layout of an airport, the location and length of runways and the position of terminal areas. This work was necessarily preliminary in nature at this stage, but in considerable detail. It allowed the subsequent consideration of the effects of air traffic using such airports on the use of airspace generally in the Sydney area. Not only were the effects of civil airport operations at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport, Bankstown and other civil aerodromes taken into account, but Royal Australian Air Force operations at Richmond and even Williamtown had to be considered, as well as the requirements of other airspace users, such as the Army and the Navy. It was in these aspects that the Department of Defence and the Service Departments were drawn into the Committee's discussions, and the Minister for Civil Aviation has stated that the advice of these other Departments was of great assistance to the committee. 
Engineering feasibility and order of cost of alternative plans, some 16 in all, at all these locations were considered, as well as the compatibility of such airports with the adjacent communities, access by surface transport, environmental aspects, etc. The 16 different preliminary airport layouts and detailed plans were examined at the following locations: Wyong, Norah Head; Wyong, Warnervale; Somersby; Richmond; Badgery's Creek; Fleurs; Marsden Park; Long Point; Lucas Heights; Wattamolla, National Park; and Duffy's Forest. As a result of all these considerations, the Committee was able to discard a number of locations and end up with 4 that it could not reject or place in order of preference without extensive consultation with the Government of New South Wales, together with detailed surveys and other technical economic and operational investigations in depth. These locations are: Duffy's Forest; Richmond; Somersby; Wattamolla. Duffy's Forest could not be developed for use by international aircraft, whereas the other 3 sites appeared to be suitable for both domestic and international services. 
Many honourable members would have heard the suggestion made from time to time that rather than bring international air services to an airport within driving distance of Sydney^ a more distant airport at Dubbo, Narromine or places even much further away from Sydney might be used. On this basis domestic services would connect that airport with Sydney, and perhaps other capital cities. Such a proposal is not compatible with the demand for fast airline connections between the major cities of the world. For instance, one Boeing 747 carries enough passengers when fully laden and landing at a remote airport to call for 10 Fokker Friendship type aircraft to transfer its passengers to their capital city destinations. Furthermore, the Committee clearly established that for domestic air services alone at Sydney, 2 airports will be required in the not distant future. The suggestion is, therefore, not considered applicable in meeting the airport requirements under consideration. 
Since receiving the report, it has been necessary for the Department of Civil Aviation to study very carefully in its own right as the Department with the ultimate responsibility the recommendations of the interdepartmental committee, particularly in connection with the alternative site for the extension of the present airport. Furthermore, the Minister for Civil Aviation decided that he should acquaint himself with the various locations investigated and discussed in the report. Since then he has personally inspected many of the proposed sites where it was thought a new airport might be located. 
The Minister also decided that he should examine current trends in airport planning and equipment becoming available overseas prior to placing the committee's report before the Government. The growth and early experience in the operation of jumbo jets and the impending introduction of other wide-bodied aircraft, as well as the probable use of supersonic aircraft in the near future and the possible introduc tion of VSTOL and STOL aircraft, introduce new considerations in airport planning. He was therefore fortunate that the opportunity to inspect and discuss some 20 major airports in Europe and the United States was open to him during his recent visit overseas to attend the International Civil Aviation Organisation's Assembly in Vienna. These investigations overseas confirmed an earlier impression that other countries too are experiencing major problems in providing new airports to serve large cities. 
As the Minister has mentioned on prior occasions, New York and London are but 2 cases where the site of new airports within a reasonable distance of these cities involves great difficulties. Many honourable members will be aware of the fairly recent decisions to establish a third airport for London at Foulness, 50 miles east of that city. It has been estimated that this new airport will cost up to $l,500m. I might add, too, that London's Gatwick airport is 27 miles from the city, while others worthy of mention in this context are Rome airport, 20 miles from the city, Washington airport, 27 miles from the city and San Francisco airport, 14 miles from the city. Quite apart from the aspects I have mentioned, the very important interests of local communities, environmental factors and the very great cost involved in a second airport for Sydney, require that this project must be most carefully considered and all available viewpoints brought to bear upon it before any decisions are taken. 
The committee recommended that the remaining investigations leading up to the selection of the most suitable site should be made by a joint Commonwealth-State committee. The Commonwealth has adopted this recommendation and following several discussions the Minister for Civil Aviation has had with the New South Wales Government, I am now able to say that the proposed joint committee will be set up quickly. Terms of reference have been agreed upon and the final stages of the work will begin quickly and be concluded as soon as possible. Briefly, the terms of reference of the committee will be: 
To make recommendations to the respective governments on the siting of a second airport to serve 
Sydney together with the respective roles of the existing airport and the new airport, addressing itself mainly to the following alternative sites: Richmond and Somersby, but without necessarily restricting itself to these locations if the committee considers that other locations merit detailed consideration. 
In considering the alternatives, the committee is to take into account all the relevant factors, including operational, technical, financial and environmental considerations, capacity and accessibility by surface transport. 
A cost benefit evaluation of alternative proposals for the siting and role of a second airport and of proposals for the development of the existing airport will be initiated by the Commonwealth. The evaluation will be undertaken in close co-operation with the committee and the report on the evaluation will be furnished to the committee. The committee shall take into account the results of the evaluation and will make the evaluation report available to the respective governments in conjunction with the committee's report and recommendations. 
The committee is authorised to consult interested Commonwealth and State departments and organisations and to call for the views of other interested bodies, such as the airlines, local authorities and community organisations, to assist in its deliberations. 
Speaking generally on these terms of reference, it will have been noted that the interdepartmental committee found itself unable to decide between 4 final sites or to place these in order of preference. The Commonwealth Government has decided that 2 of these sites, Richmond and Somersby, should be considered in priority above the others and has directed the joint committee to operate accordingly. If the committee wish to evaluate further sites, the Commonwealth will not object. However, the Commonwealth's view is that, for a variety of reasons, Duffy's Forest and Wattamolla are neither desirable nor satisfactory sites and it hopes that a quick determination between Richmond and Somersby can be made. 
The work of the interdepartmental committee was based on preliminary information about each location, lt will be necessary now in consultation with the State of New South Wales to develop firmer proposals after careful study surveys are made in each area. From the information so obtained, more exact operational and engineering planning will be possible, leading to better estimates of construction quantities and costs. It will be appreciated that access to the airport, a matter for the State authorities, is a matter of essential importance if the new airport is to serve the community adequately. 
The capital cost of the airport and associated facilities is expected to run into several hundred million dollars. The interdepartmental committee recommended that the Commonwealth Government should engage consultants, expert in this field, to carry out a comprehensive cost-benefit evaluation of the alternative proposals including those for the development of Mascot. This will allow a very thorough assessment to be made of comparative costs. Such an economic analysis of the whole airport situation for Sydney will be available to the Commonwealth-State committee to take into account along with other important considerations. The Commonwealth has agreed with the recommendations and expressed the hope that scope might be found to use Australian consultants in conjunction with the overseas consultants who will be needed as principals. 
It is difficult at this stage to determine how long these further inquiries leading up to a recommendation for the siting of a second airport will take. We are well aware of the need for the earliest possible decision but equally well aware of the importance and cost of this whole question and the need for it to be fully considered from all points of view. The Government is aiming to resolve the matter as quickly as it can, but an estimate of time is not possible with any reasonable accuracy at this stage, and any undertaking given may therefore be misleading. However, the Minister for Civil Aviation will ensure that this task is given the highest priority with the object of it being completed as early as possible and the results reported to both governments. 
We are very conscious, too, that in matters such as this there is a very broad community interest involved in addition to the detailed civil aviation considerations. The interests of local communities are very important and these will be properly taken into account so that the overall balance of public interest may be fairly and properly assessed. It will be competent for the joint Commonwealth-State committee to seek and also receive in writing any objections or additional proposals or information that they judge should be taken into account or would help their work. 
The committee will consist of members from the Commonwealth, the Department of Civil Aviation - whose member will also be the  Chairman  - and the departments of the Treasury, Works and Interior. The State of New South Wales will provide the remaining 3 from those departments it believes have the most to contribute. The committee will be free to draw on others as required. The Department of Defence, for instance, would have the right to appoint an observer. 
In conclusion, I would like to add that the Commonwealth Government looks forward to working with the State of New South Wales On this national project. Over the many months of investigations and deliberations we have been particularly impressed by the ready assistance and interest of the State Government in this important r -itier. 1 consider this to be an historic t. pie of Commonwealth-State cd-operation which will assist us all to carry out quickly the final phase of the investigation leading to the choice of a site for Sydney's sc.ond airport which, in due course, will be worthy of that great city. I present the following papers 
Sydney Airport Proposals - Ministerial Statement. 15 September 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr  Chipp) proposed: 
That the Home take note of the paper. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The DC3 aircraft which are being supplied to Cambodia, Laos and Nepal under the foreign aid programme are fitted with the basic equipment to meet the requirements for flight under instrument flight rules. 
No. 
Australia has a highly developed system of ground installations to facilitate flight under instrument flight rules. The aircraft have the basic equipment to meet the requirements for flight under those rules. They are also suited to operations in the countries to which they are being supplied. 
Yes. The aircraft were advertised for sale by the previous owner. 
There has been no change in the Government's policy that import permits should be refused for all types of aircraft of more than 12,500 lb except aircraft purchased by Australian airlines, aircraft in a specialist aerial work category such as aerial survey, replacement aircraft of a type equivalent to that currently operated by charter licence holders and aircraft for private use. No change in this policy is being contemplated. 
As to change in this policy permitting Australian operators to obtain DC3 type aircraft at ruling overseas market prices', see answer to Part (6). 
The term 'ruling market price' is not a meaningful one in the context of this question. The price of any aircraft will depend on many factors including not only the market situation for the type of aircraft but on the time remaining before the airframe and engines become due for major overhauls. Other factors, such as the radio and navigation equipment installed, passenger facilities and interior furnishings, will also have a bearing on the price. 
The asking price of the DC3 advertised in Flight International' of5th November 1970 was presumably a realistic one, having regard to the factors I have mentioned, but I have no information on whether the aircraft was in fact sold, or sold at that price. As will be seen from the answer to Part (7) some DC3 aircraft sold in Australia in the last 5 years have brought higher prices. 
Since August 1966,50 DC3 type aircraft have been sold in Australia. Their prices have ranged from $833 for aircraft sold as scrap, to $46,250 for an aircraft which had been fully overhauled prior to sale. 
I do not necessarily have available to me as a matter of course the prices at which aircraft change hands, except for aircraft owned by the Commonwealth. However, in order to answer the question as fully as possible, the following table has been compiled as a special exercise: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
PWRs- 
In Operation- 18- 5526 MW. 
Under Construction- 66- 47,974 MW. 
On Order- 45- 40,724 MW. 
Total- 129- 94,224 MW. 
BWRs- 
In Operation- 24- 7,116 MW. 
Under Construction- 27- 21,119 MW. 
On Order- 20- 17,907 MW. 
Total- 71- 46,142 MW. 
SGHWR Type- 
In Operation- 2- 350 MW. 
Under Construction- 2- 235 MW. 
On Order - nil. 
Total- 4- 585 MW. 
I should perhaps explain that there is only one SGHWR reactor (known as such) in operation. Nevertheless, under the heading 'SGHWR Type' I have included three other reactors as they too are of the heavy water moderated, boiling light water cooled, pressure tube type. The two reactors in operation are - 
the 100 MW enriched uranium unit at Winfrith in the United Kingdom; and 
the 250 MW natural uranium CANDU BLW at Gentilly in Canada. 
Those under construction are - 
the 200 MW Japanese ATR plutonium recycling reactor; and 
the Italian 35 MW Cirene prototype unit 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further information which I undertook to obtain for the honourable member on 29th April 1971, was provided in a letter from me dated 8th June 1971. That letter included the following information: 
Officers of my Department maintain contact with the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration in order that they may be kept informed of available satellite photography over Australia. 
The Division of National Mapping and the Bureau of Mineral Resources have obtained copies of approximately 50 space photographs of portions of Australia taken in the course of Gemini and Apollo flights. 
These have proved interesting but have not proved as valuable as conventional air photography in appraising Australia's natural resources'. 1 have nothing further to add to the above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters raised in the honourable member's question are within the responsibility of the Government of the State of New South Wales. I am unable to advise what studies have been made by that Government either by itself or in association with the company concerned, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) While I am unable to say whether there has been a change of attitude by the Government of South Australia in relation to South Australia's future water requirements, action has now been taken in that State to ratify the agreement which was ratified last year by '.he Parliaments of the Commonwealth and the Slates of New South Wales and Victoria. The ratifying of the agreement in South Australia will complete the authorisation for the Dartmouth project to proceed. However, as the honourable member will know the agreement includes a provision that if the estimated cost of a work rises more than 10 per cent above the estimate at the time the work was approved, then the River Murray Commission shall notify the Contracting Governments so that the position may be reviewed. Steps have been taken to obtain the revised estimate but I am, of course, unable to say what the outcome may be. 
Delay in passing appropriate legislation in South Australia has certainly delayed work on this project. Whether there is a consequential danger to industry and agricultural requirements in South Australia will depend partly on the extent to which those requirements increase during the period before the Dartmouth storage becomes effective. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I think that first of all I should draw the attention of the Leader of the Opposition to the fact that I was in the House some time before he was this morning and, in my brief absence a moment ago, was attending to House duties. But in response to the question asked by the honourable member, I do not know whether he was in the House last night when a debate on a statement which 1 made on behalf of the Minister for Civil Aviation proceeded until 11 o'clock. Many Opposition speakers then discussed in detail the matters that were referred to in the report. The whole matter is being referred for further investigation to a committee consisting of Commonwealth and New South Wales State representatives. All the various points that were covered in the report, including the investigation of any other matters which the proposed committee considers desirable, will be taken into account. As to the exact details in relation to one site of the 4 sites which remained when the report had been executed I have not this information available. If the honourable member desires to know the reasons, I can obtain them for him from the Minister. But I think that he would do better to restrain himself until the matter is considered by the proposed joint committee. 
I know the very sincere and deep interest that the honourable member has in this matter and the number of occasions on which he has expressed his views in this House. However, as the position in relation to the previous interdepartmental committee and the setting up of this new Commonwealth and State committee is rather complex, 1 think I should refer the question to my colleague in another place and see that a detailed answer is obtained for the honourable gentleman. 
May I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the Committee to consider the items of proposed expenditure in the following order: 

<graphic href="073131197109165_90_5.jpg"></graphic>

Consideration of the items in groups of departments which have a functional association one with another has met the convenience of the Committee in past years. The proposed arrangement will also ensure that as far as possible departments will be considered while their Ministers are in Canberra. I also take the opportunity to indicate to the Committee that the proposed order for consideration of the estimates of departments, as well as the time to be made available for debate on each department or group of departments, has been discussed with the Opposition which has raised no objection to what has been proposed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Is it the wish of the Committee to consider the items of proposed expenditure in the order suggested by the Leader of the House? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Second Schedule. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the last part of the question is no. I suspect that the honourable member has some argument about the agreement which exists between the United States and Australia in this field. I take it from his comments that he is not happy about the existing agreement. The position is that the present agreement was entered into by the previous Labor government back in  1946.  If the honourable member is unhappy about it, he knows the background to it. But the point is that since that date the administration of the agreement has worked out quite satisfactorily from our point of view. 
I think that in some of the reports which have appeared in the Press recently a very vital fact has been overlooked; it has not been brought out, although it appeared in the joint statement which was issued by the American Government and the Minister for Civil Aviation on behalf of the Australian Government. It was that in future the control of arrangements regarding capacity on the Pacific route will be in the hands of the two governments, not in the hands of the airlines or the American Civil Aeronautics Board. This, I think, is a very important achievement. Any proposal by the airlines for listings must go to the civil aviation authority in the United States and to the Department of Civil Aviation in Australia. It must be considered by the two governments before it is finally approved. 
As far as capacity is concerned, it is a fact that application was made on behalf of two United States airlines for additional capacity or additional services on the Pacific route. This application was made last February and agreement has now been reached. It will come into effect as from 1st December this year. Agreement has been reached for Qantas to be allowed to fly additional 747 services into and across the United States at the same time. I think that this again is an achievement. By then there will have been no change in capacity on the Pacific route for 18 months, and that in itself indicates the present situation. As I say, the change will not take place until 1st December. By that time there will have been an 18 per cent increase in the traffic on the Pacific route since the application for additional services on the Pacific route was made in February. We believe that the capacity which is to be provided from 1st December will meet the traffic requirement at that time. 
As to the question regarding the time at which the announcement was made by the Minister for Civil Aviation, I understand he made it at the first opportunity after he had a chance to study the report and to discuss it with the Government. As soon as that was done he made a public announcement regarding the matter. 
I did see in one news* paper a report that came from an Australian journalist in Japan who is, I think, the only one who has reported the release of this alleged document. Therefore, having read only one newspaper report dealing with this matter I cannot vouch for its accuracy. However, having seen that report in the Press I have arranged for contact to be made with the Trade Commissioner (Minerals), an officer of my Department in Tokyo, so that he can inquire whether such a document was released and, if so, provide me with some information on it as soon as possible. If there is such a document I will' get a copy of it as quickly as possible. 
If the document is available the honourable gentleman will be able to get copies of it. I certainly hope that if there is such a document I will have it here before long so that I may study the suggestions contained in it. If the statement by the honourable member is based on fact I would like to take this opportunity -to refute a number of contentions included in it, firstly, that there is no basic policy in relation to the development of our natural resources and secondly, that we have not had continuous and extensive discussions with the Ministers, the industry and authorities concerned in Japan. The. Leader of the Opposition will know that . last year and again this year I spent some time in Japan. All of that time was devoted principally to discussions with industry and commerce and authorities. The people who are directly concerned with the development of our natural resources in Australia and the utilisation of them for processing in Japan. In addition we have had almost constant contact with our opposite numbers in the Japanese Ministry and as the Leader of the Opposition knows, trade missions from Japan are constantly visiting Australia and there will in fact be another Japanese economic mission in Australia this week. We will be holding discussions with members of this mission on a variety of matters. Of course, there are a number of matters on which policy has to remain flexible. 
We have given to the Japanese Government as clearly as possible an outline of the various guidelines on our policy as they exist at the present time. We have indicated to that Government a number of matters which require further attention. We have also indicated that a number of policies, which we have already pointed out are subject to variation, must be on a flexible basis and that changes can and will occur in the future. A tremendous amount of work has been done in this field and there is still another matter in relation to this which is before the Government for consideration. I merely mention these matters now to indicate that already a lot has been done in this field and that much more remains to be done. As soon as I have had an opportunity to study the document referred to, if it does exist, I will further advise the Leader of the Opposition in relation to this matter. 
I will have to draw on my memory in regard to the background of the issue of licences for specific purposes. I can recall that when I was Minister for Civil Aviation a few years ago it was a fact, and I think it still is, that a private licence holder was not permitted to carry passengers for profit. To the best of my knowledge that situation still , applies at present. This arrangement, of course, has been implemented for an obvious reason. Special licences are issued for commercial purposes and .people who are engaged in charter or airline operations do so at great cost to themselves for profit and they must have some protection in that field. 
However, I do know that, marginal circumstances arise from time to time in relation to special cases. I do not know whether this matter is being considered on a special basis at present. I shall see that the honourable member's : question is referred to my colleague in another place and that he is supplied with some information as soon as possible. 
Pursuant to Section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953- 1966 I present the nineteenth annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with the financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Premier of South Australia has now been informed that the Commonwealth is not prepared to consider financial assistance for the LockKimba scheme at this stage. Having regard to the uncertain situation in the wool industry it is deemed inappropriate to provide special assistance under the National Water Resources Development Programme to support an expansion in the industry in one area, at the same time as the Government is involved in measures to alleviate the economic problems of the industry generally. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Qantas has arranged hull and third party insurance covers on its fleet of 4 Boeing 747 aircraft, two of which, have already been delivered. 
These covers embrace normal flight and ground risks and the extra perils of war, riots, strikes, civil commotion, hijacking, acts of sabotage, malicious acts, terrorist activities and similar risks. The sum insured, in $US25m for normal flight and ground risks on the hulls, and $US18m for the extra perils. Aircraft third party cover is $US80m. 
All policies are underwritten on the London aviation market, with Lloyds' European and American .underwriting groups participating. The insurances were handled through the Qantas brokers, Harvey Trinder (Northern) Pty Ltd. It is not considered that it would be appropriate to make public the premiums payable to the underwriters in respect of these insurances, as this is a normal confidential commercial arrangement. 
Select Committee on Aircraft Noise: Recommendations (Question No. 3474) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The following Recommendations have been adopted: 
I, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17(a), 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29. 
The following Recommendations are at present under consideration: 5, 8, 17(b), 17(c), 17(d). 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, it is a fact that a MacRobertson Miller Airlines Fokker F28 aircraft, on a flight from Port Hedland to Derby on Saturday 31st July, was unable, due to fog, to land at either Derby or Broome and eventually landed at Fitzroy Crossing. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Fitzroy Crossing is suitable as an alternate aerodrome for Fokker Friendship ' aircraft during daylight hours' provided the weather conditions are suitable. It is hot normally used by Fokker Fellowship aircraft. 
There are several aerodromes suitable as alternate aerodromes for Fokker Friendship and Fellowship aircraft in the area. Provided all the Department's operational requirements are satisfied, the selection of the most suitable alternate aerodrome rests with the operator dr the pilot-in-command. 
(a) Fitzroy Crossing does not have all the normal facilities for night landing and take-off. (b) Fitzroy Crossing does not have a formed runway surface and is, therefore, subject to climatic conditions and may be adversely affected by, prolonged periods of rain.. 
Fitzroy Crossing is not a normal alternative aerodrome for this type of aircraft. The aircraft was landed at Fitzroy Crossing because there were no suitable alternate aerodromes within range. 
When the aircraft arrived overhead at Derby it was carrying approximately 5,200 lb of fuel This quantity of fuel was insufficient' for the aircraft to fly, to Wyndham or to Kununurra with normal fuel reserves. 
Wyndham and Kununurra would have been available for traffic if required.. Meteorological conditions at these ports were suitable, but Wyndham is not normally used by F28 aircraft. 
The aircraft remained within the Derby area for approximately 22 minutes. 
When the aircraft departed the Derby area for Fitzroy Crossing it was carrying approximately 3,000 lb of fuel and after landing at Fitzroy Crossing the Captain estimated the fuel remaining to be between 300 and 500 lb. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question is a very complex and somewhat confused one. A number of the matters referred to are ones in which responsibility does not rest in any one area but touch on the interests and activities of the Commonwealth, the States and private industry. 
The Commonwealth is concerned with watching the adequacy of resources and with ensuring that there is not an excessive rate of depletion in relation to Australia's future needs. On the question of costs, the matter of escalation is mainly ons for private industry and the concern of Governments is to ensure a reasonable return to the Australian people. 
As to effects on ecology these are now matters which, at the Commonwealth level, are the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. In relation to particular industries, these are matters within the responsibility of the respective State Governments. In this regard I would point out that in the last year or two, the States have become active in establishing appropriate machinery to deal with these matters within their own boundaries. I am confident that appropriate measures will be taken as required. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of National Development for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970-1971, I present the first annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 32b of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act 1949-1966, I present the twenty-second annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 31st March 1971, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
by leave - In view of the absence of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  I will undertake to have those figures checked and also to provide the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  with information on the arrangements regarding the payment of the subsidies. I think the Prime Minister referred to subsidies that are paid to MacRobertson Miller Airlines. I do not think Ansett Transport Industries Ltd was mentioned at that time. But the subsidies referred to are paid for intrastate services. I can have the matter checked, get the full details, and see that the information is provided to the honourable gentleman. 
They are internal services too. 
I have never transgressed in this field. I know that the Leader of the Opposition has a vital interest in this matter as he asked a question on it and I feel that I should provide the latest information for his supporters. The position is that the Japanese Foreign Ministry has indicated publicly and officially that the statement which was referred to by one Australian journalist in Japan was not from an official document. The Ministry has made this quite clear. It was a study undertaken by an organisation known as the Overseas Economic Study Group. The report was prepared by 4 university professors. The study was undertaken on behalf of not only the Foreign Ministry in Japan but also a number of other departments and organisations on the subject of Japan's policy on natural resources overseas. It did refer in one chapter to the development of Australia's natural resources and their relationship with Japan. This was the chapter that was referred to and taken, I am sorry to say, completely out of context by the journalist involved and I am afraid substantially misreported as it was referred to as an official report of the Japanese Foreign Ministry. I think that should be corrected. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Angas and the Leader of the Opposition for raising the matter and giving me an opportunity to put it in its right perspective. The study undertaken was a private one. As is the custom of most governments when they ask for studies of this nature to be undertaken, the ensuing reports are normally confidential to the governments concerned and are not meant to be classified as official documents. The report which appeared in the Press was quite incorrect in its context. 
Again I appreciate this opportunity given to me by the Leader of the Opposition and I appreciate also his comments regarding the speech which, I may say, I made on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at that time because it was in relation to a matter which concerned the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Yes. 
1 will see that il is recorded. The Prime Minister also extends his thanks to the Leader of the Opposition. The point is that the exploration for minerals off-shore, of course, is in its infancy, as 1 think the Leader of the Opposition knows. New techniques are being developed, for example, the use of laser beams and so forth, which allow pinpointing with a degree of accuracy which was not possible before. At this time there is a minor and slow development in the exploration for minerals off-shore. The major exploration in this field is for petroleum. An agreement between all States and the Commonwealth and legislation of a mirror type cover off-shore petroleum exploration. That is the field . in which the major work is being done. 
When applications are submitted in the normal way through the State Departments of Mines for permits for off-shore exploration under arrangement through the Australian Minerals Council the matter is discussed by the State Departments of Mines with my Department. We have received in the last 18 months to which the honourable member has referred a number of indications - not many - of applications being submitted, all of which have been approved. We have approved a number principally for the east coast of Australia, and those are mainly for the coast of New South Wales and the east coast of Queensland. That system, of course, will continue, and to the best of my knowledge it is working satisfactorily at the present time. 
To the best of my knowledge all the States agreed to do this. Certain States have not submitted applications to the Commonwealth for consideration. This, of course, could be because no applications have been received. As 1 indicated, at the present time only a limited number of applications are being made for off-shore mineral exploration leases because the techniques are new and this type of exploration is in its infancy. I do not doubt that in the future some further developments will be made in this field. I can assure that Leader of the Opposition that this matter will be watched very carefully by the Australian Minerals Council. 
I ask for leave to provide some information to the 
Leader for the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  referring to a matter in relation to airline subsides which he raised yesterday in a question answered by the , Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon). 
When I introduced the second reading of this Bill on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in another place I referred to the primary purpose of the Bill being to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to ratify a protocol of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and also a number of other matters relating to the extension of the membership of the council and other matters associated with ICAO's operations. The debate has ranged far and wide, not only covering the amendment that was moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  but also principally governing the matter relating to the debate on a statement which I made also on behalf of the Minister for Civil Aviation a week or so ago concerning the development of a second airport for Sydney. 
I know that this is a matter that causes great concern to honourable members whose electorates are in the area. I can understand their position. In view of the fact that there was a full-scale debate on this matter just recently and the various points were answered at the time, I will not deal with this again now. The honourable member for Newcastle referred very briefly to the main Bill and then introduced his amendment. He dealt with the amendment very substantially. He referred to a number of accidents and incidents that have occurred in various places. Some of them occurred at the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport. The honourable member was critical not only of the standard of investigation but also of the time taken for inquiries into these accidents or incidents. I draw his attention to the fact, although he knows it too well, that the air safety investigation branch of the Department of Civil Aviation, under the direction of the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation in Australia, has a world-wide reputation. I know from previous association with the Department that the standard is regarded as about the highest in the world. 
The investigators are regarded highly by other countries and the reports, when they are eventually produced, are considered to be of a standard which is not bettered by any other investigating team in the world. This is something of which we should be proud, not critical. Again we should not be critical of the time it takes to conduct these full and thorough investigations, even if it is a matter of months, as happened in the 2 cases that were referred to by the honourable member for Newcastle. I think this is essential. I would not like to inhibit the operations of the air safety investigation branch in any way at all by putting restrictions or time limits on its operations. The honourable member for Newcastle would be the first to admit that this should not be done. I think that that suitably answers the matter which the honourable member raised regarding the standard of the investigation and the time factor that was involved. He went further to refer to the landing aids that are provided at Sydney airport and inferred that these were inadequate and unsuitable for operations of modern jet aircraft, particularly the 747. The position is that runways 07 and 16 at Sydney are equipped with instrument landing systems. Runway 34 has the T-VASIS. and runway 25 has a T-VASIS in addition to a VASIS red-white system. These aids are at least equal to the landing aids provided at other international airports throughout the world. 
This is the system that is provided not only in Sydney but also at the other major airports in Australia. I may say with pride that the development of this type of instrument landing system, which is regarded so highly throughout the world, has been principally an Australian development. No modification is required to the T-VASIS system to make it suitable for the operation of long bodied aircraft. A suggestion that instrument landing systems be installed wherever physically possibly and irrespective of cost cannot be supported on operational grounds. The cost would be prohibitive also. In addition, as I mentioned, the T-VASIS systems on the runways where they have been installed are up to a standard which is quite suitable and adequate for the purpose. 
The honourable member for Newcastle also indicated his belief that Pan Am has not been advised regarding the use of the T-VASIS system as being suitable for Boeing 747 aircraft. In September 1970, prior to the United States operation of Boeing 747 aircraft into this country, the Department of Civil Aviation forwarded a letter to Pan Am detailing how the T-VASIS may be used by long bodied aircraft. Although Pan Am airways route manual contains a diagram of the T-VASIS system, it is understood that this aid in many cases has not been used by its pilots. But on 12th August 1971 Pan Am's Senior 
Vice-President for Operations visited Melbourne and received a detailed briefing from the Director-General of Civil Aviation in Australia on the operation of this system. So again I completely refute the idea that the instrument landing systems and the T-VASIS system, which is principally an Australian development, are not up to the standard required for long bodied aircraft. In fact they are up to that standard and are so being used. 
I refer very briefly to the question of a so-called new agreement between the United States and Australia. There is no new agreement between the United States and Australia. There is an agreement which, as I stated the other day, was signed by the previous Labor Government back in 1946. It is a Bermuda-type agreement, an open-ended type of agreement, and although its operation has been relatively satisfactory from our point of view over the years, if there is any criticism regarding the open-ended arrangement whereby either country can claim additional frequencies in or out of the country concerned, it is the responsibility of the previous Labor Government. 
This is the agreement that was signed by the previous Labor Government and which is still in operation. There is no way in which that agreement can be changed unless we signify the termination of it, and of course we do not want to do that. The position is that some new arrangements have been made under this Bermuda-type agreement whereby in future there will be control by the governments - the United States Government and the Australian Government - over capacity on the Pacific route for the first time. This is a very big step forward in the control of capacity in this region. The honourable member for Newcastle suggested that the Civil Aeronautics Board would be the body that would control it. I indicated the other day that this is not so. It will in future be controlled by the Government. Once it goes through the board in the United States and the Department of Civil Aviation here, it will be referred to the Department of State in the United States and to the Minister here. If there is any dispute, both governments will exchange information on it. In other words, it will be arranged on a government to government basis and not as at present on an official basis or arranged by airlines. This is the biggest breakthrough that has taken place since this agreement was signed back in 1946. I referred also to what had been achieved in maintaining the status quo so far as capacity is concerned on the Pacific route, for a period of 18 months up to 1st December next, and after that the traffic arrangements to which 1 shall refer in a moment will apply. But during this period of 18 months when the status quo has been maintained there will be an increase in traffic of approximately 18 per cent. So again that indicates that there is not much point in the argument that has been put forward by the Opposition. 
To further support the position and to indicate what the arrangement will be after 1st December, let us look very quickly at the capacity figures prior to this agreement. At the present time Qantas Boeing 747 operations are nil, its Boeing 707 flights number up to 11, and it has 2 Boeing 707 freighters. Pan Am has two 747s and five 707s. American Airlines has no 747s and three 707s. After 1st December 1971 the airlines will be able by this agreement to operate the following services: Qantas, four 747s and three 707s;  Pan Am, three 747s and four 707s; American Airlines, no 747s and five 707s. That indicates that there is a rationalisation as far as capacity is concerned which is not to the disadvantage of Australia. 
I would like to go a little further to indicate that the people who are directly involved in this and who perhaps have the greatest interest believe that this new arrangement is a significant breakthrough. I would like to quote 2 paragraphs of a letter from the Australian Tourist Commission dated 27th September 1971. The opening paragraph states: 
The Australian Tourist Commission believes that a most significant break-through has occurred in the new Australian-American air agreement on Pacific frequencies and in the imminent prospect of a new agreement on charter flights. 
Another paragraph stated: 
It is a reasonable assumption that the increased capacity should be quickly absorbed by the high growth rate particularly of US visitors to Australia which for the year ending 30th June was up 42 per cent. 
In view of the time factor, with the conconcurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the remainder of this letter to save reading it out at this point of time.  27 September 1971 
The Editor 
Dear  Sir, 
The Australian Tourist Commission believes that a most significant break-through has occurred in the new Australian-American air agreement on Pacific frequencies and in the imminent prospect of a new agreement on charter flights. 
The Commission has advocated for some time increased frequencies on the route, particularly for direct flights into Melbourne and to tap more traffic from the eastern and mid-western regions of the United States which together represent the biggest travel market in the world. 
We are concerned by some suggestions during the last week that the air agreement was a surrender to the United States and against our best interests. 
We believe this to be a short-sighted view. 
We believe that the Australian delegation led by the Director-General of Civil Aviation,  Sir Donald  Anderson, and which included the General Manager of Qantas, Capt. R. J. Ritchie, faced up realistically to the rapidly changing situation in international civil aviation and the opportunities available to us as a country for large-volume, lower-fare traffic. 
The delegation secured an important new position for Australia. It has for the first time negotiated an agreement which can put the Pacific frequencies under review on a governmenttogovernment basis. 
We see this as a considerable protection in the national interest enabling the Australian Government to intervene if necessary to ensure the viability of Qantas as our international carrier. 
The agreement removes the uncertainty which has so long existed and enables orderly development. 
It is a reasonable assumption that the increased capacity should be quickly absorbed by the high growth rate particularly of US visitors to Australia which for the year ending 30th June was up 42 per cent. 
We are already seeing evidence of marketing campaigns involving millions of dollars being spent by, US carriers in North America to increase the flow of tourist traffic to this area. Qantas, also a substantial promoter in the North American market and a large provider of the regular frequencies to this area, must gain in the long run from the additional traffic that we believe will certainly be generated. 
The Commission has informed the Department of Civil Aviation of its full support in the establishment of a Qantas charter subsidiary. We also welcome the prospect of bilateral exchanges of charter rights which will enable charter operators to bring here a new type of tourist business. 
Unlike other long-haul destination countries in Africa and Asia, Australia has so far missed out on this vast charter market. Its development here will act as a badly-needed spur to our tourism and will further highlight the need for special assistance - as is the case in other countries - to encourage the building of more international-class hotels and to bring our resorts and attractions up to world standard. 
Basil G. Atkinson General Manager 
Australian Tourist Commission Melbourne. 
I thank the honourable member for Newcastle for his consideration in respect of this incorporation. I will finish on that note and indicate again that in view of what I have said we do not believe that the amendments moved by the Opposition are necessary. Therefore, they are not acceptable to the Government. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Charles Jones' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
According to an official statement of the position by the British Government, BOAC propose to use the subsidiary company, British Overseas Air Charters Ltd, in order to enable the Corporation to compete in that part nf the charter market not open to IATA airlines. 
Yes. Qantas has recently been given approval to form a wholly-owned non-IATA subsidiary company which would allow it to compete in that part of the air travel market not open to IATA airlines. The required traffic rights enabling it to do so have yet to be negotiated at government to government level with the other governments concerned. 
1 have not had the opportunity to see the question and answer to which the honourable member has referred but I can confirm that the figures that have been quoted are accurate - that is, the latest estimate which has been obtained at the request of the River Murray Commission by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is now $64m compared with the original estimate of $57.5m. This does mean under the agreement that the matter will now be considered by the River Murray Commission at its next meeting which is to be held on the 19th of this month. The matter will have to be referred to the various member governments concerned - the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victorian and South Australian Governments - for consideration because the agreement states specifically that if the estimate is above the increase of 10 per cent allowed the matter must be referred to those Governments for reconsideration. Under the agreement they then have 6 months to decide whether they will proceed. I cannot indicate the length of time that the Governments will take to consider the matter. 
There is just one other point and that is that this matter cannot yet be considered by any government when it is referred to it by the River Murray Commission until the individual Acts have been proclaimed by each member government. Honourable members will understand that the matter is only being considered now because at last the South Australian Government has ratified the original agreement, which it delayed for some considerable time. The proclamation of the Act by the various governments should take a matter of a few weeks only. After that, they will have the opportunity of considering the new estimates. I can assure the honourable member that, from my own point of view as  president  of the River Murray Commission and also in my capacity in this Government, I have every desire to see this matter considered as quickly as possible. 
I have not heard of any special complaints lately about this matter although I can recall that in the past, when I was Minister for Civil Aviation, occasionally these matters were raised. As far as I know the standard of baggage handling in Australia is reasonably good by world comparison but there are occasions when these problems arise. If there are any special cases that the honourable member has in mind and he would care to refer them to me, I will see that the attention of my colleague in another place is drawn to them and that he is asked to take them up with the airlines concerned. 
Before dealing with the points raised by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  I would like to thank my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  for indicating that the Opposition will be prepared to give leave to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to make a statement at 8 o'clock this evening on a matter relating to increased benefits for nursing homes. Copies of the statement will be available shortly and will be passed on to the Opposition in accordance with the usual arrangement. I appreciate the Opposition's indicating in advance that it will give leave for that statement to be made. 
The honourable member for Bendigo raised a  matter  of great importance. Whilst I agree that it is a matter of great importance I must say that the wording of the proposal for discussion and the points raised indicate that again it appears to be an example of political opportunism rather than of actual facts. The honourable member criticised, amongst  Other  things, the  low  income benefits and referred, as the basis  for  authority for his comments, to recent Press statements which alleged that because by 31st December 1970 only about 12,000 low income families had applied for assistance under the subsidised health benefits plan, which was introduced on 1st January last year, the plan had failed in its objective. But of course this is not so. 
I feel that misunderstanding has occurred in the use of published statistics relating to the scheme, and that the Opposition in this case has chosen to perpetuate the error. Consequently it is necessary for me to put these figures in their proper perspective. For administrative and statistical purposes beneficiaries under the plan are divided into 3 separate community groups eligible for assistance. They are, firstly, the low income families; secondly, unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries; and, thirdly, migrants. These groups are not mutually exclusive. A high proportion of the persons receiving unemployment, sickness and special benefits would receive annual incomes less than the annual limit of income which determines eligibility for low income families. Similarly, in a 12 months period migrants on the average would be in Australia for only 6 months and their annual income would also be less than the limit. 
For income assessment statistical purposes beneficiaries in all these 3 groups would be classified as low income earners. For the purpose of the subsidised health benefits plan the 3 groups have been recorded separately. In the year ended 30th June 1971, 82,000 unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries became members of health insurance funds, about 11,000 low income families became members and about 28,000 migrants became members. The total of the 3 groups approximates 121,000. lt is estimated that 84,000 of these consist of families on low incomes. It is also relevant that the original estimate was that 184,000 families would become eligible for health insurance assistance. This estimate was based on figures for the year 1966-67, which were the latest figures available at that time. 
They have subsequently been updated, and the figures I will mention shortly will show the result. But the figures I have quoted were the up to date figures at that time. The original estimates were based on figures for the year 1966- 67. Projections based on figures for the 1968-69 income year, which are now available, indicate that by now the maximum number of eligible low income families is approximately 125,000. Notwithstanding this, the Commonwealth Deportment of Health has not been idle in facing the situation and revised procedures to operate from 1st November 1971 will make a very real contribution towards some of the problems being experienced. The new procedures involve the introduction of a simplified application form of low income families and the adoption of one certificate for all beneficiaries, whether low income families or unemployment, sickness or special beneficiaries. These new arrangements will simplify procedures and enable more eligible persons to avail themselves of the assistance under the plan. 
The Department has also adopted widespread measures in publicising the plan, both in campaigns directed solely to the operation of the plan and its inclusion in other general departmental literature. However, it has been found that publicity efforts directed through the normal media do not reach a great number of those eligible. At the present time the Department of Health is examining suitable avenues, such as more use of social workers in the community to support the normal publicity measures. A factor indicating the success of the scheme is the expenditure under it to date. During the first financial year of the operation of the plan, that is, 1st July 1970 to 30th June 1971, expenditure was $6. 9m. It is estimated that the expenditure for 1971-72 will rise to $9.7m. I think the House will agree that these figures alone completely refute the allegations of the honourable member for Bendigo. But I think I would be performing a useful- and factual - service if 1 were briefly to outline certain aspects of the health benefits plan as they apply to low income families, to those receiving unemployment, sickness or special benefits, and to migrant settlers for medical or hospital expenses incurred during the first 2 months in Australia. 
Benefits now available through Australia's health scheme have taken much of the worry out of health costs for people on low incomes. If a family income is below $52.51 a week, the plan gives special help in paying health expenses. There are 3 categories of assistance: Firstly, where a family income is $46.50 or less, free medical benefits and public ward hospital cover are available; secondly, where a family income is above $46.50 but does not exceed $49.50, medical benefits and public ward hospital cover are available for only one-third of the normal cost of health insurance contributions; and thirdly, where a family income is above $49.50 but does not exceed $52.50 medical benefits and public ward hospital cover are available for two-thirds of the normal cost of health insurance contributions. 
Also, if a person is receiving unemployment, sickness or special benefits, he is eligible for full medical benefits and a scale of hospital benefits equal to the charge made to patients in public wards of public hospitals. He does not have to complete a special application form to receive these benefits. A subsidised medical services entitlement certificate is issued automatically and he should receive this soon after being granted his social service benefits. A person is allowed 4 weeks free health insurance after his unemployment, sickness or special benefits terminate to allow him time to become a regular contributor to a health insurance fund of his own choice. And finally, if a person is a migrant who intends to settle in Australia, the Federal Government will provide special assistance towards meeting any medical or hospital costs he may have during the first 2 months following his arrival. To qualify for this benefit he must first become a member of a health insurance fund and begin paying contributions. He must present the insurance fund with an identification paper, such as his passport or document of identity, which shows the date of his arrival in Australia. The fund will pay benefits, on behalf of the Federal Government, towards his medical and hospital costs for the first 2 months of his residence in Australia. He will be entitled to full medical benefits and a scale of hospital benefits equal to the charge made to patients in public wards of public hospitals. 
I mention these things because they are inherent in the Opposition's matter of public importance and because they are facts of achievement and service under the national health benefits plan, which everyone in Australia should know. The points that have been raised by the hon*ourable member for Bendigo dealt with factual situations in perspective as placed before the public by Press reports which, as I indicated, have been based mainly on outdated figures. The facts and figures I have quoted this afternoon show the. position in perspective in accordance with the latest statistics that are available and indicate, as I have indicated today, the amount of finance that has been provided by the Government in the past year, and the estimates for this year show that it is being substantially taken up by a large number of people classified as being in the' low income group. In conclusion, the' Opposition's case is regrettably lacking in facts and does a most rational and enlightened national scheme a grave disservice. 
I am afraid that I have not the figures relating to orders that have been delivered during the last 3 months, but I assume that the honourable member is referring principally to the shipment of coal from ports in New South Wales. The total figures for the last few months have shown some slight increase over the previous 3 months when there had been a downturn in the orders that were being delivered. One of the problems at the present time is that there has been a falling off in the steel industry in Japan. This has meant some slowing' down in the Japanese taking up orders which have already been placed in Australia, and also some stockpiling at ports and at pit heads for a temporary period. That situation has been overcome to some degree over the last couple of months, and the understanding is that the new but lower base that has now been established for deliveries in the future will be maintained. On present indications these deliveries will be under the estimates which have previously been given for the period up to 1975. However, we expect that the base that has now been established will be maintained, with some possibility of its improving over the next 2 years. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Noise level measurements for each of the last ten years in areas adjacent to the North East South West runway at Adelaide Airport are not available. 
A Noise Exposure Forecast which is a measure of the subjective effect of aircraft noise on the average person has been prepared for Adelaide Airport to cover the years 1975-1980. This forecast, and associated explanatory material, is available from the Regional Director, South AustraliaNorthern Territory Region, and it takes account of such factors as: 
the magnitude and duration of aircraft noise as determined by type, weight and flight profile; 
the distribution of the noise energy over the spectrum of audible frequencies; 
the forecast frequency of aircraft movements on various flight paths;' and 
the distribution of aircraft movements by day and night. 
Although aircraft movements over the next ten years are likely to increase at Adelaide airport, and indeed at all other major airports, the availability of quieter aircraft in the future is expected to contain the aircraft noise problem and to make a real contribution to the noise alleviation programme. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) It is possible that in the combination of military and civil movements, including both general aviation and airline movements on the civil side, Canberra Airport could become saturated during peak hours towards the end of the 1970's. The most practical way of relieving that short term operation saturation, on an hourto hour basis, would be to create a satellite training field for elementary civil light aircraft training during the peak traffic hours. That would be in accordance with a well established practice both in Australia and overseas. 
Consideration is being given to providing a satellite training field reasonably accessible to Canberra (Fairbairn) Airport. 
I recall on a previous occasion when I was associated with the Department of Civil Aviation that the Towra Point site, which had been considered earlier, had been specially excluded. To the best of my knowledge this is still the situation. However I realise the problems that the honourable member has raised in relation to airport sites and I will certainly see that the matter is referred to my colleague in another place. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-69 I present the twelfth annual statement on the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
by leave - I move: 
That Government Business, order of the day No. 16, National Health Bill 1971, second reading, resumption of debate, be discharged. 
On Tuesday night last the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced the Government's decision to increase the level of Commonwealth benefits for nursing home patients. As a consequence the National Health Bill which the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  introduced into this House on 16th September will need to be withdrawn and redrafted. It is my intention to introduce a new Bill incorporating the newly announced benefits when the House meets next Tuesday. It is therefore necessary for the Bill which is now before the House to be withdrawn tonight. Immediately after this motion has been carried notice of my intention to present a new Bill on Tuesday will be reported to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
and (2). No. There has been no indication of a reduction in property values in areas adjacent to the North-East/South-West runway at West Beach Airport due to increased aircraft noise. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
 Qantas  at  present holds 347,060  shares  in 
Malaysia-Singapore Airlines Limited (MSA) representing 4.08 per cent of the issued capital. MSA is to go into voluntary liquidation' towards the end of 1972 as a result of a joint decision by the Malaysian and Singapore Governments. The Government of Singapore has suggested that they and the Government of Malaysia should now buy out the minority shareholders in MSA with a view to facilitating the voluntary liquidation. The latest advice from Singapore is that both Governments have agreed to allow the Governor of the Bank of Negara, Malaysia, to negotiate the purchase of the BOAC and Qantas shares in MSA, the Government of Singapore being prepared to abide by the price negotiated. 
The Government of Malaysia has decided not to invite participation in the new Malaysian airline and it is understood that the Government of Singapore takes a similar view in respect of its own international airline. 
There have been no changes in the directorships of MSA held on behalf of Qantas as a consequence of the reconstruction of the airline. 
During the long period of association that Qantas has had with MSA there has been no formal management services agreement between the two airlines. Both Qantas and BOAC have made staff available on secondment and have provided other support services. Following the announcement that MSA would be liquidated, the Australian Government offered technical and other assistance to both Governments. The Government of Malaysia accepted this offer (in preference to offers made by numerous other foreign airlines) and Qantas has now entered into a management services agreement with the Malaysian airline under which Qantas will provide management advice and assistance necessary for the setting up of the Malaysian airline and will provide such personnel and access to such training and other specialised facilities as the Malaysian Government may require from time to time. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister's attention has not been drawn to the view, nor is it bis view, that a consideration of the interests of the people of Sydney. Newcastle and Wollongong exclusively, and npt those of all the people of New South Wales, should be the determining factor. 
Honourable members will recall a statement made in this House on 15th September in which it was indicated that the Government had decided to set up a Commonwealth/State Committee to recommend a site of a second airport for Sydney. Whilst this Committee is to address itself mainly to two alternative sites specified, it is not restricted to consideration only of these locations if the Committee feels that others merit detailed consideration. The statement also made it clear that the Committee was to fully consider the siting of a second airport from all points of view. 
(4.46&gt;- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members were informed on 7th October the Government has withdrawn the National Health Bill 1971 which was presented and read a second time in this House on 16th September 1971. Certain decisions taken by the Government since that date, including the decision to increase the ordinary nursing home patient benefit by $1.50 a day, have required the Bill to be redrafted. The purpose of the present Bill before the House is, firstly, to provide for an increase in the patient benefit for ordinary nursing home care from $2 a day to $3.50 a day; secondly to give effect to the Government's Budget proposals in relation to the contribution payable by the patient for pharmaceutical benefits; thirdly, to incorporate into the schedules of the National Health Act variations made to certain items of those Schedules during 1971 by Regulations. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced on 5th October, it is proposed to increase the Commonwealth benefit for patients receiving ordinary nursing home care by $1.50 a day to $3.50 a day or $24.50 a week. As a consequence, benefits for patients receiving intensive nursing home care will be increased from $5 a day to $6.50 a day or $45.50 a week. The nursing home benefits made available by the Commonwealth Government apply to patients accommodated in nursing homes approved for such purposes under the provisions of the National Health Act. These nursing homes are conducted by private proprietors, by religious and charitable organisations or by the various State Governments. 
The Government has been reviewing the present arrangements for patients requiring nursing home treatment. As stated by the Prime Minister, the Government has not abandoned its aim of introducing new long term arrangements as soon as it is practicable to do so and the increase of $1.50 a day proposed in this Bill is in the nature of an interim measure to alleviate the financial difficulties which are now being experienced by nursing homes and their patients. It is estimated that the proposed increase of $1.50 a day will inject some $24m more a year into the nursing home area. During 1970-71 Government expenditure in this area amounted to $49.5m and is estimated to rise, excluding the proposed increase of $1.50 a day, to $51.9m in 1971-72, 
As announced in the Budget, it is proposed to raise the level of patient contribution in respect of general pharmaceutical benefits from 50c to $1. The fee has remained at 50c since 1960. However, the contribution payable by persons receiving assistance under the subsidised health insurance scheme - now to be known as the subsidised health benefits plan - will be maintained at 50c. Pensioners and their dependants covered by the pensioner medical service will continue to receive pharmaceutical benefits free of charge. It is proposed that these provisions will come into effect on a date to be proclaimed. The present system of providing pharmaceutical benefits to the general public, other than pensioners, is based on the principle of Government assistance to the individual in meeting the cost of medical treatment rather than the provision of 'free medicine' in the literal sense. 
In September 1950 a scheme was introduced by the Government which provided certain life-saving and disease-preventing drugs free of cost to the whole community on a doctor's prescription. From July 1951 the Government introduced a further scheme which provided a comprehensive range of medicines for pensioners who were enrolled iri the Pensioner Medical Service. No charge was made for these drugs. 
Between the years 1951 and 1960 the list of life saving and disease preventing benefits was periodically expanded to include newly developed drugs. In March 1960 a major departure was made from the then existing schemes. The general and pensioner benefits schemes were amalgamated and the entire range of drugs in both schemes, with the exception of a small number of drugs restricted to eligible pensioners, was made available to the general public. The list of benefits was greatly expanded to provide a much wider range of treatment. At the same lime ali items on the list, except those restricted to eligible pensioners, were made available to the general public at a fee of 50c for each item supplied by a chemist. Pensioners, however, continued to receive the benefits free of charge. The drugs and medicinal preparations made available as pharmaceutical benefits are determined by the Minister for Health on the advice of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee established under section 101 of the National Health Act. 
As honourable members are aware, pharmaceutical benefits are the most expensive component of the Government's overall health benefits plan. In 1970-71 the cost to the Commonwealth of prescription benefits to the general public amounted to $88.2m. Additional costs to the Commonwealth included payments to public hospitals and miscellaneous sources of $26. 9m and payments in respect of benefits supplied to eligible pensioners and dependants under the Pensioner Medical Service of $45.2m, a total of $160.3m. This figure compares with $136.7m in 1969-70. In 1960-61 the corresponding costs were $34.3m, $6.8m and $14.7m respectively, a total of $55.8m. Commonwealth expenditure on pharmaceutical prescription benefits for the general public has thus increased by 157.2 per cent over a period of 1 1 years. The patient contribution has increased from $ 10.3m to $24.4m for the same period, an increase of 136.9 per cent. 
However, the relationship of patient contribution to the total cost has fallen from 23.1 per cent in 1960-61 to 21.7 per cent In 1970-71. 
While the cost per prescription has risen from $2.18 in 1960-61 to $2.30 in 1970-71 and is estimated to rise to $2.65 in 1971- 72, the number of prescriptions per head has increased from 2.13 in 1960-61 to 4.26 in 1970-71 and is expected to rise to 4.48 in 1971-72. The effect has been that the cost per person in respect of general benefit prescriptions has risen from $4.62 in 1960-61 to $9.80 in 1970-71. Three main contributing factors are responsible for the increase in cost to the Commonwealth. These are the addition of new expensive drugs and the relaxation of restrictions on prescribing of certain drugs, particularly in relation to the antibiotics, analgesics, anti-hypertensive and antidepressant groups of drugs, together with some increase in prescribing by doctors unaccounted for by the above 2 factors. 
It is estimated that the proposed increase in the patient contribution from 50c to $1 will effect a reduction, in the cost of the scheme to the Commonwealth, in respect of general prescription benefits, of $24.6m in a full year and $15.8m in the current financial year. These estimates have been made on the basis of the situation that pertained in 1970-71. The expected savings, however, could be affected by variations to the list of benefits and changes in doctors' prescribing habits. At a time when the Government is concerned with the continuing sharp increase in the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, it believes that it is not unreasonable for the community at large to bear the cost of the increased patient contribution. There have of course been substantial increases in incomes since 1960 when the existing patient contribution was first set. 
The proposed increase to $1 will mean that those items listed in the schedules to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Regulations as pharmaceutical benefits which cost $1 or less will not be available as benefits to the general public. It is not proposed that these benefits be deleted from the schedule of benefits, as the Government recognises that such items should be retained and made available for the .use of pensioners and persons receiving assistance under the subsidised health benefits plan. The present provisions of the National Health Act relating to the treatment of chronic diseases or conditions will also continue to apply. 
As I have already mentioned, persons eligible for assistance under the subsidies health benefits plan will not have to meet the increase of 50c for national health prescriptions. This decision is in keeping with the Government's policy under the health benefits plan to assist where possible those special groups in the community to meet the cost of medical care. The subsidised health benefits plan, which has been in existence since January 1970, provides assistance in meeting the cost of medical and hospital treatment to persons receiving unemployment, sickness and special social service benefits, migrants during their first 2 months in Australia and low income families. 
The Bill provides that persons eligible for assistance in each of these categories will be able to obtain medicines and drugs prescribed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme for 50c per prescription. The present Bill differs in certain other respects from the previous Bill. The present clauses relating to the supply of pharmaceutical benefits to patients under the subsidised health benefits plan put beyond doubt the availability of the concession for such benefits during the period for which a person is either eligible for unemployment, sickness or special benefits under Part VII of the Social Services Act or is classed as a low income earner under section 82u or 82zc of the National Health Act. The Bill also defines those persons who as dependants of persons eligible for assistance under the subsidised health benefits plan are also eligible for the pharmaceutical benefit concession. While the Government will assist these special groups of people to obtain their pharmaceutical benefits for a charge of only 50c, the onus to establish initial eligibility must rest with the persons concerned. It is essential therefore that persons who believe they are entitled to subsidised pharmaceutical benefits should make application to the Department of Social Services or, in the case of migrants, to the Department of Health as soon as the changes become effective. 
The Government has also considered the position of certain members of friendly societies who joined prior to 24th April 1964 and who, under their present lodge rules, are entitled to receive varying levels of rebates on the present 50c patient contribution for benefit items dispensed by friendly societies dispensaries. 
Following the introduction of the previous Bill, the Government has again considered all the factors involved in allowing the friendly societies dispensaries to rebate only 50c of the $1 to their members entitled to this concession. The Government has decided to allow society dispensaries to rebate the proposed $1 patient contribution in whole or in part to those members who joined the societies prior to 24th April 1964. The clause in the previous Bill which imposed the restriction has therefore been deleted from the present Bill. 
The third purpose of the Bill is to incorporate into the schedules to the National Health Act variations made to those schedules by the National Health (Variation of Benefits) Regulations in accordance with section 13a of that Act. This section provides that a table in a medical benefit schedule to the Act may be varied by regulation. However, the regulations cease to have effect unless they are ratified by an amendment of the Act within 15 sitting days of the House of Representatives following the expiration of 12 months after notification of the regulation in the Commonwealth Gazette. This particular section was inserted by amendment to the Act in 1970, as part of the reconstruction of the medical benefits segment of the new health benefits plan. It was recognised at that time that adjustments to the schedules would be necessary as more comprehensive data became available - regarding fees commonly charged by doctors for medical procedures infrequently carried out. lt was also realised that it would be accessary from time to time to fix apprepriate amounts for new medical procedures as they were introduced and to adjust Commonwealth and fund benefits for medical services when new common fees were determined. 
The National Health (Variation of Benefits) (No. 1) Regulations (Statutory Rules No. 43 of 1971) were notified in the 
Commonwealth Gazette on 1st April 1971 and came into force on that date. The National Health (Variation of Benefits) (No. 2) Regulations (Statutory Rules No. 75 of 1971) were notified in the Commonwealth Gazette on 24lh June 1971 and came into force on 1st July 1971. The variations made to the medical benefit schedules contained in the Variation of Benefits Regulations No. 1 and No. 2 are therefore covered by the present Bill. 
The regulations which became effective from 1st April 1971 involved amendments to 29 items of the schedules. A number of services not previously listed were introduced into the schedules and in addition the common fees and benefits for some items already listed were varied. The variations in the most common fees were made because at the time the original list of most common fees was drawn up, information on some services had been incomplete. 
These amendments from April 1971 resulted from recommendations of the Medical Benefits Schedule Advisory Committee which is a body appointed by the Minister for Health to consider and recommend changes in the benefits schedules. The Committee consists of representatives of the Australian Medical Association, the registered medical benefits organisations and the Department of Health. The changes to the medical benefit schedule made by the regulations which became operative from 1st July 1971 were much more significant in their scope than the previous regulations, although not as many in number. The most significant feature of these regulations was the increase in Commonwealth and fund benefits in most States for the important general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits to meet the increases in the most common fees for those services as from 1st July 1971. 
When the new common fee system was introduced on 1st July 1970 both the Government and the Australian Medical Association recognised the necessity for periodic reviews of medical fees to take account of economic circumstances. It was decided that there should be a review of the most common fees at two-yearly intervals and that the first review would have effect from 1st July 1971. These regulations incorporate the changes made to the most common fees for surgery consultations and home visits as a result of a review of common fees. Consequential adjustments were also necessary to fees for 11 other medical services which, for fees and benefit purposes, are equated to general practitioner surgery consultations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
With your approval,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I might say that this is the norma] procedure. Once the Bill has been passed and becomes an Act, the date of commencement for these particular provisions will have to be proclaimed. This can be done only when the legislation is placed on the statute books. 
It will be done when the Bill passes through both Houses and receives the royal assent. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to  section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1920- 1966, I present the eleventh annual report of the administration and working of the Act and regulations and on other matters concerning civil air navigation. 
 The matter that has been raised today is one that does strike a responsive chord, I am sure, in everyone in this House. I would like to emphasise the point that this matter is one which has received very careful consideration by the Government, particularly over recent months. I can assure the House also that Government back benchers, particularly the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid),  have raised this matter consistently and as a result, particularly because of the activity of the honourable member for Holt, a statement was made in the House by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  indicating that some additional assistance is being provided. This assistance is in addition to other action that has been taken to assist in this field where so much help is needed and where so much sympathy is felt throughout the world. In addition to the statement which was made recently by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and responded to by the Opposition there have also been quite a number of questions in relation to this matter. Petitions have also been presented and individual submissions have been made on behalf of these refugees by, as I said, the honourable member for Holt and others. The Government is fully aware of the problem. In fact, it has consistently over recent times given consideration to it. As I have already pointed out, the Government only recently made a further gesture in this field by providing additional assistance. 
The proposed suspension of the Standing Orders is not directly related to the matter of assistance to these refugees, which has been raised in this House on a number of occasions already- The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is aware that a private member has an opportunity to raise such a matter under general business. Indeed he has indicated his intention of doing so by giving notice of motion. That opportunity is available to any honourable member. The honourable member knows the procedure and proposes to take advantage of it. 
Aid to Pakistan refugees was discussed recently in this House when a further gesture of assistance was made by the Government. I must point out that there are matters of great importance to be dealt with today. The Opposition has already indicated that it wishes to proceed with the debate on the National Health Bill 1971, which deals with matters which are of vital concern to so many people in this country. That Bill is of importance to honourable members on both sides of the House. As has already been indicated, it has to be dealt with today. Much as the Government appreciates the thoughts that have been expressed by the honourable member for Corio and bis desire to bring this matter before the House again, in view of the fact that it has already been discussed and that a number of opportunities have been made available to honourable members to raise it, the Government cannot accept this motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. I move: 
That the question bc now put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Commonwealth Departments have not been involved in studies relating to the proposed steelworks at Jervis Bay and I suggest the existence of any studies on the siting of the steelworks could only be ascertained by direct approach to the company concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume the timber products to which the question refers are woodchips, as the quantity exported in other forms is relatively small and has not changed significantly for many years. As a result of sound management these exports have not resulted in any adverse effects on the forests. 
The methods used to produce timber for woodchips do not differ from long established Australian forestry practices. Australian foresters have had considerable experience with the methods employed, and whilst the scale of operations associated with woodchips tends to be larger than other forms of forest utilisation,there is no reason to suggest that the forests will be impaired by controlled extension of these techniques. 
It would appear unnecessary therefore  to  appoint a committee of investigation. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. The subject Agreement does provide, however, that should the services of a party airline be interrupted for any reason such airline may receive some compensation from its partner airlines. This compensation would be calculated on the extent to which loadings on partner airline services have been increased by traffic that would have been carried on the services of the airline which had been interrupted. The practice of airlines entering into compensatory arrangements of this kind is not uncommon. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. A limited survey of departing passengers from Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport was carried out on 18th March 1970. The study was conducted to obtain information on the localities in the Sydney area from which airline passengers began their journeys through Sydney Airport on the survey day. These would not necessarily coincide with the places of residence. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The States which have approached the Commonwealth in this connection are Western Australia and South Australia. The last approach by Western Australia was in 1955, and the last by South Australia was in 1963. New South Wales and Victoria have made no such approaches, and die Commonwealth has made no approaches to any of these States. 
Surface Damage by Aircraft  (Question No. 3983) 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It has not yet been possible to obtain uniform legislation on this subject in these States and Territories. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following visits have been made to the People's Republic of China on behalf of Qantas: December 1957,  Mr G.  Howling, Sales Manager, Orient. 
Unfortunately I have not the details that the honourable member requires, but I will certainly make some inquiries regarding the matter and see that the information is provided. I do know from past experience, as I was Minister for Health some years ago, that the scheme at that time was very successful and that the provision of something as a substitute for milk in areas where milk was not available was being considered. I will make inquiries regarding the various points which were raised by the honourable member and see that a reply is provided. 
I referred to this matter in the House last week. I can bring the position up to date by describing what has happened since then. The position is that after South Australia at long last passed legislation approving the original agreement between the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia for the construction of the Dartmouth Dam, certain actions had to be taken consequent on that approval by the South Australian Parliament. First there was an exchange of letters between the Prime Minister and the Premiers of the States in relation to a number of points that had to be clearly defined. To the best of my knowledge that stage is either completed or is just in the process of finalisation. 
The second point was that the estimates of the cost of constructing the dam then had to be reviewed. This was carried out by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation at the request of the River Murray Commission. I indicated that there had been an increase from S57.5m to $64m in those estimates, which will be considered by the River Murray Commission next week. But as the increase is above the 10 per cent set out in the escalation clause in the agreement the matter then has to be referred back to the 4 governments for reconsideration. 
Also, this matter cannot be referred back to the governments for reconsideration until the Acts have been proclaimed by all the governments concerned. This is a machinery procedure which takes a certain amount of time and my understanding is that this will be done as quickly as possible. I can assure the House that immediately the Acts are proclaimed the River Murray Commission will refer the new estimates to the governments concerned. It will then be up to the governments to consider the matter. Under the agreement the governments have 6 months in which to make a decision as to whether to proceed with the work on the basis of the new estimates. I would anticipate, and hope, that this will not take the full 6 months. I would expect that within a matter of a few months the governments would be able to make up their minds in relation to the additional costs and refer the matter back to the River Murray Commission. 
Therefore, the position at present is bound by certain time factors inherent in the agreement. But as I said last week, as  President  of the River Murray Commission I am most desirous to see this matter brought to fruition as quickly as possible. 
I have no personal knowledge of the process that has been mentioned by the honourable member, but as it is a matter which concerns the Department of Health I will see that it is referred to my colleague, the Minister for Health, in another place and a suitable answer provided. 
by leave - For the information of honourable members I present the following paper: 
Accident Investigation Report - Canadian Pacific Airlines DC8-63 Aircraft, CF-CPQ, and TransAustralia Airlines Boeing 727 Aircraft, VH-TJA at Sydney Airport, New South Wales, on 29th January 1971. 
This report was presented to the Senate yesterday and the Minister for Civil Aviation made a full statement in relation to the matter in that place. 
When I was Minister for Civil Aviation my normal practice was to make a statement in this House and to table the relevant documents. Yesterday in the Senate the Minister for Civil Aviation.  (Senator Cotton)  did that. There is no desire on the part of the Government to stop debate on matters at any time, and if a debate is required in this instance this can be arranged. I draw attention to the fact that this matter is at present before the High Court and some implications could arise. The statement was not debated in the Senate. The Minister made the statement and there was a response to it, but the matter is now on the notice paper and I do not think it could come forward for debate until the High Court has made some decision. However, we can examine that aspect. If the honourable member requests it at a later stage I can, if necessary, make a statement when it would be appropriate so that the Opposition will have the opportunity to make some comments. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1948. 
 The Minister for Health has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The possibility of mutagenicity referred to  in  this report originates from purely chemical experiments carried out  in  laboratories, using large quantities of dichlorvos. 
The conditions under which experiments such as these are carried out would not be encountered in the every-day use of dichlorvos, and no mutagenic effects of this substance have been demonstrated in either animals or man. 
No other reports suggesting mutagenic effects of dichlorvos could be located by my Department. 
The United States Department of Agriculture had required that pest strips containing dichlorvos should have the following warning included in the labelling: 'Do not use in  Kitchens,  restaurants or areas where food is prepared or served. Do not use in nurseries or rooms where infants, ill or aged persons are confined'. The United States Environmental Protection Agency is now responsible for labelling requirements of this nature and this Agency requires the addition of debilitated' in the second sentence of the warning statement quoted. 
The control of pesticides, including dichlorvos comes within the responsibility of the individual States and of the Commonwealth for those Territories within its administration. The National Health and Medical Research Council, which is an advisory body to the States and Commonwealth, has recommended that pest strips containing 20 per cent or less dichlorvos should have the following warning included in the labelling: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The House of Representatives' Select Committee on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme has recently heard evidence from representatives of the Australian Dental Association in relation to this matter. The Government will consider this Committee's recommendations when they are made in due course. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) The information requested by the honourable member has not been recorded by the registered medical benefits organisations or my Department and accordingly is not available. 
However, surveys were undertaken for the purpose of ascertaining most common fees in the last few years. From October 1970, the larger medical benefits organisations have co-operated with the Department in a continuing survey of the level of observance of most common fees and the benefits paid. 
The information recorded in these surveys was used earlier this year in preparing estimates of the numbers and cost of services for general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits, and other' services for discussions with the Australian Medical Association in connection with their proposal to increase fees from 1st July 1971. It was not possible to distinguish the 'other' services between those performed by specialists and general practitioners. 
It is proposed that as the computer processing of medical benefits claims is extended, statistics and information such as that requested may become available in future. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (c) Following the 1970 Conference of Australian Health Ministers a Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council was established comprising 2 representatives from each State and the Commonwealth, these representatives being Permanent Heads and Senior Officers of Health departments. Four sub-committees have been established to report to the Council periodically in the following fields: 
Research into the administration of Hospital and Allied Services. 
Uniform costing in Hospital and Allied Services. 
The possible application of computers in Health and Hospital fields. 
To advise on the planning of and equipment for hospitals. 
The terms of reference of the Council are such as to enable it to report to the Ministers on such other items in the field of Hospital and Allied Services as the Council may consider important and on such other matters as the Ministers may refer to the Council for its examination and opinion. 
The development of uniform statistics is a continuing process and is being actively pursued by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics and by my Department. The Bureau of Census and Statistics is developing the collection of uniform statistics in the number of health areas. 
A Central Statistical Unit, headed by officers seconded from the Bureau of Census and Statistics, has been established in my Department. A principal role of this unit is to work in close cooperation with the Bureau of Census and Statistics to develop and maintain national systems of collection and dissemination of uniform statistics specifically related to the functions of the Department of Health. 
Three sub-committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council namely the Hospital Statistics (Standing) Sub-Committee and the Disease Classification Sub-Committee, which report to the Medical Statistics (Standing) Committee, and the Mental Health Records SubCommittee, which reports to the Mental Health (Standing) Committee, are engaged in the investigation of the collection and interpretation of uniform statistics in the fields of hospital morbidity, the presenation of hospital records, the classification of diseases and the recording of mental illness. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The provision of school dental services and the fluoridation of water supplies within States are regarded as the responsibility of the various State Governments. A school dental service operates in both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. As regards fluoridation, the Australian Capital Territory water supply was fluoridated in 1964 and the Alice Springs water supply on 1st June this year. It is expected that the Darwin water supply will be fluoridated by early next year. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following changes have been made to the daily charges imposed in (a) standard wards, (b) intermediate wards and (c) private wards since April 1970: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, except that residents who are in necessitous circumstances may have the full cost of their return air fares paid. (See answer to Question 3737) 
No. 
The responsibility for the provision of medical facilities within a Slate is a matter for the Government of that State. 
Medical Treatment: Fares from Northern Territory  (Question No. 3737) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
The responsibility for the provision of medical facilities within a State is  a  matter for the Government of that State. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The current range of medical insurance contribution rates charged in each State is: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At the present time, approximately 229 ready-prepared pharmaceutical benefit items are valued at SI or less. It is not possible to specify any number for extemporaneously-prepared benefits, due to the varied nature of such benefits which doctors are able to prescribe. 
It would be meaningless to patients to publish a list of the items concerned because of the number involved and because of varying Stale requirements concerning drugs available without prescription. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) A working party has been established within my Department to consider the inclusion of paramedical services within the National Health Scheme. The working party has met on several occasions when representations from a number of professional bodies, such as physiotherapists, have been carefully considered. The honourable member will appreciate that the issues involved are of a complex nature but notwithstanding (his, some progress has been made towards finalisation of the review. 
At this stage 1 am unable to indicate when the review will be completed. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) Yes. 
The drafts require considerable change to produce satisfactory legislation and resources for this work cannot be diverted at present from other legislative work of higher priority. I am unable to say when legislation on the subject will be promulgated but I can assure the honourable member that the work will be put in train as soon as circumstances permit. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to Question No. 2550 was published in Hansard on 16th September 1971. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The newsletter quotes an estimate made by the Royal College of Physicians that there is an annual death toll in Great Britain of 27,500 men and women, aged 35-65, from the 'burning of tobacco', which figure is considerably less than the overall figure given by the Chief Medical Officer of Health,  Sir George  Godber, of 100,000 deaths annually. This latter figure includes all young smokers and those over 65 whose life has been shortened by smoking. 
It would not be feasible for me to calculate from the College's estimate of deaths, the economic loss associated with mortality and morbidity due to smoking in Great Britain. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth is guided in these matters by the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council, which to date has made no recommendation that alcoholism and its complications should be included in the list of notifiable diseases. 
Public education in regard to smoking hazards and abuse of alcohol in areas other than the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory is the responsibility of State Governments. In the Territories under its control, the Commonwealth has instituted health education programmes in schools using methods aimed at developing an awareness of the public health aspects of cigarette smoking and the use of alcohol. These health education programmes have recently been intensified in the Australian Capital Territory to promote co-operation and education of parents and school teachers. In addition a series of seminars has been introduced, involving Health Services personnel in all areas having contact with the public, on drug abuse in the community - smoking and over indulgence in alcohol being two facets of this subject. 
Baby Foods: Use of Mono-sodium Glutamate  (Question No. 4115) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. Legislation is not necessary at present as baby food manufacturers have agreed not to add mono-sodium glutamate to their baby foods. 
November 1969. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1. (a) and (b) The figures quoted by the honourable member for the cost of light water reactor plants erected in the USA as estimated by the USAEC are as published. They nevertheless need considerable qualification and in any case are now out of date. Great care must be exercised in applying common 'ground rules' in comparing such costs. For example in contrast with the estimates quoted by the honourable member, it has been reported that Jersey Central Power and Light's 1140 MW Forked River nuclear power station originally scheduled for 1976 operation will cost $345/kW - but we do not know on what 'ground rules' this was calculated. 
The more important 'ground rules' are: 
Timing 
Both the USAEC and the Edison Electric Institute estimates were made in respect of plants on which construction might be started in 1969 and completed in 1975. The USAEC added that if construction were to be commenced a year later an additional cost of $20 million would be involved. Even so at the time of providing these estimates the sudden and unexpectedly large increase in prices of nuclear power stations which have since occurred could nut have been foreseen. In this connection I would remind the honourable member that the tenders for the Jervis Bay Project were submitted on the understanding that actual construction would not commence until late 1971 or early 1972. 
Fuel Charge 
The American estimates did not include the initial fuel charge. 
Site Costs and Owner's Costs 
The USAEC estimates are based on somewhat ideal hypothetical sites. In practice very few sites having such ideal qualities are available and substantial additional costs are normally incurred. External costs necessarily incurred by the owner in the form of providing road or water access, power, water., housing and amenities are also excluded by USAEC. 
Size 
The cost per kilowatt for nuclear power stations decreases with size at much greater rate than is the case with conventional stations. Thus it is invalid to compare costs per kilowatt of 500 megawatt and 1,000 megawatt units or in the case of the Edison Electric estimate with 2 units of 1,150 megawatts which would share the common costs relating to siting, cooling water, etc. 
There is a further consideration which perhaps should not be considered under the heading of ground rules'. It is that tenders for construction of nuclear power stations in industrially developed countries which have already had experience in constructing nuclear stations (e.g. North America, Europe and Japan) are likely to be lower than for construction in a country where no nuclei r industrial expertise has been developed. In the latter case tenderers are likely to make larger loadings for contingencies. 
Numerous figures have been published recently for European nuclear plants but without a statement of what has been included, those are quite meaningless. I have been given to understand that the cost of European stations would be about the same as those in the USA - possibly a little lower - if estimated under the same 'ground rules'. 2, 3 and 4. As no tender has been accepted, I do not propose to release any information on the prices tendered. Had a final choice been made the Government would in the normal course of events have made available the cost figures for the chosen system. I would nevertheless hope that from what has been said above the honourable member realises that simple comparisons of what might have been the cost per KW for the Jervis Bay project and unqualified out of da's cost estimates based on American experience can be quite misleading. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member on gross returns and profits is not available in a reasonably accessible form. Information on petroleum search subsidies paid or committed over the last 10 years is provided in the attachment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the usual practice to disclose the composition of interdepartmental committees and consequently I am unable to provide the information sought in the honourable member's question. 
 The motion that has been moved and seconded is a procedural motion for the suspension of Standing Orders and it deals only with the procedures which were referred to by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  when he moved the motion. Naturally, however, some comments went beyond the bounds of the procedural motion, and what has been mentioned during what developed into a part of a debate of course strikes a responsive cord on both sides of the House. Honourable members on the Government side of the House as well as honourable members opposite have raised this matter fairly constantly over recent weeks. As has been stated, the Government has taken some substantial action to assist in this field to date and some further action was announced only recently. However, as I indicated when a similar motion was moved the week before last, this is not the appropriate form to deal with this matter, however much sympathy we have with the subject that has been raised. 
The position at the moment is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  since his return from overseas, has been in close consultation with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on this matter. At present the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in the process of preparing a statement which he will make to the House concerning action which the Government will be taking. I hope that that statement will be made to the House tomorrow. I have already mentioned to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that when that statement is made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs some debate will take place on its subject matter. 
1 can recall this matter being raised some years ago when I was Minister for Health. The decision made at that time was that in view of the special circumstances treatment of their own children by medical practitioners would not be recognised under the National Health Act. This matter has been reviewed from time to time but the situation still applies at the present time. I know there are some problems related to rural areas and also when the problem of surgery arises. There are some legal technicalities also associated with the matter of a charge being made for the person himself. However, in view of the fact that the honourable member has raised the matter I will ensure that it is referred to my colleague in another place for consideration. 
I ask for leave to reply to that question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report referred to is a technical report to the Commission and is unlikely to be published. It was on the basis of this report that provision has been made in the latest amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement, to authorise the River Murray Commission to carry out river improvement works in the section of the River Murray between Hume Dam and Yarrawonga Weir. 
It is not clear what sort of examination is suggested. It is expected that when appropriate river improvement works have been carried out in terms of the Amending Agreement, flows of the order of 10,000 cusecs will be carried without any significant overbank flow. 
lt is not expected that the river channel capacity between Hume and Yarrawonga will interfere with operations associated with the Dartmouth storage. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 am advised that tbe Belmont Shire Council did request consent to amend its town planning scheme to allow residential uses in part of Newburn during May 1962 and that the Council also sought consent to allow selected industrial uses in the area during the latter part of 1969. 
Yes, the area was zoned rural. There was no need of the land because of adequate other availability of urban land. As industrial land it was difficult to service and to provide suitable access and, in any case, other industrial land was already available. 
Yes, in relation to the 1969 talks which included discussions on the effect of airport noise and DCA's ultimate interest in the area. 
No. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A copy of the Agreement between the Commonwealth and MacRobertson Miller Airline Services which expired on 30th September 1971 has been tabled in the Library. I would remind the Honourable Member that on 22nd May 1968 in my then capacity as Minister for Civil Aviation I made a copy of the Agreement available to him and received a polite acknowledgement from the Honourable Member. 
By an exchange of correspondence in November 1968 the Agreement was varied so as to relieve the Commonwealth of its obligation to determine the overall subsidy, 'having regard to the need to maintain a reasonable return on the capital invested in the company' (Clause 5 (i) ), and in lieu of this obligation the Commonwealth agreed to subsidise agreed unprofitable developmental services approved by the Minister in accordance with the standard principles applied by the Commonwealth in respect of other unprofitable developmental services. 
As I explained in the House on 30th September 1971, no subsidy has been paid on the major trunk route between Perth and Darwin since 1st 
July 1968, and since January 1969,  the  only service in respect of which subsidy has been paid to MMA is the developmental air service operating in the Kimberleys.It is proposed to offer to MMA to extend the subsidy agreement to 30th June 1972 in respect of the Kimberley services only. 
(a) and (b) On 7th August 1969 TransAustralia Airlines applied for a licence authorising operations between Perth and Darwin with authoried stopping places at Mt Tom Price, Dampier, Port Hedland, Derby, and Kununurra. The Commission was advised on 26th September 1969 that the Government decision was that no action should be taken in this matter for the present and tbe application was refused. 
On 8th April 1970, TAA submitted that approval should be given for TAA to operate to the North West area of Western Australia and into the Northern Territory but specific proposals were not made at this time. 
On 26th January 1971, TAA proposed that it be authorised to supply capacity equivalent to ons F28 aircraft and commence operating services Perth-Port Hedland-Darwin-Gove with stops at Paraburdoo and Kununurra. 
On 11th February 1971 TAA applied for a Perth-Port Hedland-Darwin licence. This application was renewed on 17th August 1971 and TAA has been advised that the matter is under active consideration by the Government. 
I move: 
That standing order 103 (eleven o'clock rule) be suspended until the end of this period of sittings. 
The reason for introducing this motion at this time is that a number of Bills under the new process for handling the business of the House have come into the House at an early point of time. A large number of Bills are listed for handling today. While many of the Bills that are listed appear to occupy a fair amount of space on the notice paper, they are in fact Bills which require little debate. The indications are that there will be little debate on a number of the Bills, particularly some of those listed for debate today. We have already had a position in which, by co-operation from the Opposition, which I acknowledge, on one occasion we were able to introduce some new business after 11 o'clock. Also, the week before last we had a problem with appropriation and there was some difficulty in getting on to one measure. I think we made the time by about 2 seconds. 
This situation can arise again, particularly in relation to a relatively large number of small measures. In the case of a cognate debate, if the debate is continuing after 11 o'clock and the debate on the first Bill has been concluded, unless this motion is carried it will not be possible to deal with the other cognate Bills at that time. This is the principal reason for the introduction of this motion. I may say that a substantial number of Bills - just a few more than average - is being handled during this sitting. There will be, in addition to the Bills that will be debated during this sitting, a number of Bills introduced to the second reading stage and left on the notice paper, as is becoming customary now, for consideration in the next sitting. But in view of the circumstances I think it far better to be handling the volume of business that we are handling rather than having the complication of a bank-up of business at the end of the sitting: So for the various reasons I have outlined, and acknowledging the co-operation of the Opposition already on 2 occasions, I ask for the support of the House in relation to this motion. 
Whilst I appreciate the offer of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the problem that has been expressed by the Country Party Whip  (Mr Turnbull)  the position is that this motion refers to Government business being introduced after 11 o'clock. I mentioned at the outset some of the matters relating to business today and on other occasions during the rest of the sittings. Knowing the number of Bills which will attract little debate, I said I believed that the same situation will arise again. That was one argument that I used. But in mentioning this question of the introduction of Government business after 11 p.m. I instanced the Appropriation Bill, where we ran into a problem. 
So the assurance from the Leader of the Opposition, of course, would not cover this situation. It is a question of whether he can give me an assurance that, after I discuss the matter with him or with his  Deputy,  the Opposition will permit Government business to be introduced after 11 o'clock. I can assure him that I have not the slightest desire to prolong the sittings of the House but to ensure the orderly proceeding of the business of the House. As I indicated, because of the method we have introduced now of bringing in many more Bills earlier in the sittings, this situation has arisen earlier. If the Leader of the Opposition can give me an assurance, which I know he always observes, along the lines of the motion that Government business may be introduced after 1 1 o'clock, I will be very happy to withdraw my motion and accept his assurance. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa - Leader of the Opposition) - by leave - The difficulty in these matters, as I see it, is where honourable members are required to enter upon a debate after 11 o'clock. If the Leader of the House is referring to the situation, for instance, where a Minister makes a second reading speech on a Bill after 11 o'clock and then the debate is being adjourned, I would give him that assurance; but I could not give him an assurance that we would proceed with a debate on a matter for the first time after 11 p.m. 

 Mr SWARTZ (Darling Downs - Minister for National Development) - by leave - That would not be satisfactory because the motion refers to debates commencing after 11 p.m., and in fact, as I explained, that situation could arise tonight. That is one reason why we wanted to take this step at this stage. It is earlier in the sittings than normally that we have this number of Bills to handle. 
The Leader of the Opposition has seen the Bills that are on the notice paper, and it is possible that after 11 o'clock we may wish to introduce one or two of those small Bills. 
No, I am referring to the continuation of the debate, concluding the debate and the Bills passing through all stages. So the motion envisages the introduction of new Government business, the continuation of a debate and the completion of all stages. I would be prepared to accept an assurance from the Leader of the Opposition and withdraw the motion if he would give the assurance that I seek. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa - Leader of the Opposition) - by leave - The debate has enabled us to be much clearer on both sides as to what the Government has in mind about its business, but I cannot give the assurance that my Party would allow a debate to be commenced and to be concluded on the matters which are on today's blue sheet showing the provisional programme. I cannot give that assurance because, quite frankly, we do not believe it would be suitable to discuss things such as the Bell Bay railway, the finances of Qantas Airways Ltd, the stevedoring industry, payroll tax and State authorities for the first time after 11 o'clock. Not only are honourable members not in the best condition at that time but nobody will be in the public gallery to listen to us and nobody in the Press will report us, so we would be a closed society. The Parliament should be able to be followed by the public and conducted by men in better condition than they will be after 11 p.m. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Swartz's)  be agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Increased prices of Middle East crude will not have any direct effect on the cost of production of oil from Bass Strait. 

 Sir Ian McLennan stated in his speech that BHP has not sought to vary the arrangement by which the Commonwealth Government fixed the price of Australian crude oil until 1975. However, he went on to state his view that the case for a revision of the price prior to 1975 deserved very careful attention as a means of stimulating exploration for petroleum in this country. 
Yes. The late  Dr Hunter  did publish such an estimate which be stated was 'over a 10 year period'. 
The then Prime Minister announced on 10th October 1968 the basis on which the price of Australian crude oil would be determined for the 5 years following 17th September 1970; and no decision has been made to depart from the policy so announced. 
If and when the Government should review the price, all appropriate factors would be taken into consideration. 
 The Minister for Health has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In the Australian Capital Territory schools are operated under the New South Wales Department of Education curriculum, and are staffed by New South Wales teachers. The topics mentioned in your question are included in the health education section of the curriculum. My Department provides educational material for use in schools on smoking and alcohol in the form of pamphlets, books and films. 
In the Northern Territory, a health education specialist has recently taken up duty with my Department. Under his guidance, a complete and expanded programme of health education is currently being developed. This programme will include the topics of smoking and alcohol. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
September 1970. 
Nine. 
TAA, AAA, EWA, Qantas, Australian Air Freight Forwarders Association, the Oil Companies, the Association of Commercial Flying Organisations, the Royal Federation of Aero Clubs of Australia, the State Planning Authority, the Departments of Health, Customs. Immigration, Works and Civil Aviation. 
No, it is a technical committee. 
To review the master plan for Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport, bearing in mind known and expected requirements for the movement of aircraft, passengers, mails and freight and the expected availability of a second Sydney primary airport. 
The Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. Considerable structural alterations and modifications axe now being carried out at Canberra Hospital. These include the conversion of the existing coal fired boilers to oil firing and the installation of an additional oil fired boiler. This will enable a greater control of combustion than exists at present and should almost eliminate the emission of smoke from the boilers. It will also alleviate the added loading to the existing coal fired boilers which occurs during maintenance periods when excessive smoke could occur. 
In addition ways of disposing of hospital waste other than by incineration are being explored. 
The Minister .for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) and (b) Precise figures as to the number of general practitioners in private practice in Australia are not available. However, ohe recent estimate is 7,376. At 30th June 1971 there were 6,617 doctors enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service (89.7 per cent of the estimate) and 6,206 (84.1 per cent) had been appointed as Local Medical Officers by the Repatriation Department. 
A medical practitioner acting as locum tenens or who is an assistant in a medical practice is not required to enrol in the Pensioner Medical Service if the principal of the practice is an enrolled doctor. A similar position exists in regard to a locum tenens or an assistant in a medical practice where the principal is appointed as a Local Medical Officer by the Repatriation Department. The actual numbers of doctors providing services under the Pensioner Medical Service or under Repatriation Local Medical Officers Scheme are therefore in excess of the figures quoted and the percentages correspondingly higher. 
This information is not available. The necessary medical expenses of an eligible employee are met under the provisions of the various workers' compensation legislation by the employer, generally through insurance. Medical practitioners in general render the necessary treatment in -workers' compensation cases without the need to enrol or register in a particular manner. - (2) Participation by medical practitioners in the Pensioner Medical - Service and the Repatriation 
Local Medical Officer Scheme is entirely voluntary and non-participants are not required to state their reasons for electing not to enrol. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The estimated additional cost to the Commonwealth is as follows: 
Mileage payments for home visits have been excluded in calculating the above estimates. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (b) Before taking steps as envisaged by the right honourable member it would be necessary for all the recommendations of the Committee, and the factors stated by the Committee that have led to those recommendations to receive close examination. I am arranging for such an examination to be made and I shall subsequently consider the matters raised by the right honourable member in the light of that examination. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Regulations establishing these two Committees were repealed on 12 November 1970, the date on which the Therapeutic Goods Act and Regulations were proclaimed. The Committees had not met prior to that date. 
Two Committees, with functions similar to the two previous Committees, were established under the Therapeutic Goods Regulations. These Committees (which are not interdepartmental Committees) have not yet met, but are currently being established and should meet early in 1972. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The number of authorised beds in Maternity Ward 2 at Alice Springs Hospital is 14 adult and 5 baby. The numbers of beds occupied vary from day to day. On 23rd July 1971 there were 23 adult patients and 4 baby patients in this ward. 
The question of re-opening New Ward 3 to meet the over-crowding in Maternity Ward 2 is under consideration. The Director of Health, Darwin is currently waiting for an estimate of the cost of the alterations necessary to bring this building to the required standard to care for the type of patients concerned. 
If New Ward 3 is re-opened it will become an annexe of Maternity Ward 2 and will accommodate 7 uncomplicated ambulatory patients only. The level of responsibility associated with their care and the small number of patients concerned would not justify an additional position of Senior Sister. 
The staff establishment from the old Ward 3 has been used to open Infectious Ward 7 and there has been no change as a result in the work toad of the Senior Sisters. 
There are 15 positions of Senior Sister at the Alice Springs Hospital of which 12 are filled on a permanent basis and the remainder provide relief. One position is at present occupied by an officer on study leave. The present number of positions in this category is considered sufficient for the size of the. hospital. 
When Senior Sisters are absent on sick or other leave, higher duty allowances are paid to those officers who relieve them. 
The building concerned was renovated years ago and has been used since as a medical store. It is airconditioned and one of the best buildings on the hospital site. Consideration is being given to using it as a training centre when necessary alterations are made. 
There hare been no representations by the United States community about inadequate facilities at Alice Springs. In the early stages of the Pine Gap project the American authorities offered the Department of Health the services of a surgeon because of the large number of people they were adding to the community. This offer was accepted and the surgeon has now commenced duty. 
Yes. 
The details necessary for proper consideration to be given to such an application have not yet been received by the Director of Health, Dar win from the St John's Ambulance Brigade in Alice Springs although Departmental officers have offered to assist in the preparation of an appropriate submission. 
It is understood that the St John's Council in Darwin has made arrangements for a subsidy of $50 per month to enable the Alice Springs Branch to continue operations. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Institutions located in the Electoral Division of Bendigo which were approved under the National Health Act for the purpose of payment of Commonwealth Nursing Home Benefits as at 30 June 1971 ; and 
The numbers of patients for whom Commonwealth nursing home benefits were being paid on 30 June 1971, at the rates of  82  and $5 a day, respectively, were as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Bank Health Society has not been requested to discontinue the practice of making ex-gratia benefit payments. 
The Society rule under which the payments are made is: 
Maximum benefits payable will be as set out in these Rules and the Regulations made pursuant  to  these Rules, provided that, in special cases, at the absolute discretion of the Committee, such maximum benefits may be exceeded'. 
With the introduction of the new Medical Benefits Plan from 1st July 1970, the need for such payments has been greatly reduced. 
Pharmaceutical Benefits: Supplies by Australian Companies  (Question No. 4009) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In 1970-71 wholly Australian-owned companies supplied 9.1 per cent of pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions, representing 7.2 per cent of the cost of the ready prepared items provided as pharmaceutical benefits, the brands of which could be identified. 
The brand can only be identified when the doctor specifies the product of a certain manufacturer or when the benefit item is produced by one manufacturer only. Ready prepared prescriptions unidentifiable by brand represent approximately 10.3 per cent of the total number and 9.3 per cent of the total cost of ready prepared benefit items supplied. 
Health Advertisements (Standing) Sub-committee (Question No. 4093) 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
This Sub-Committee met twice,on 14th September 1970 and 19th March 1971, and completed its task at the 72nd Session of the National Health and Medical Research Council in May 1971 and it will not meet again. 
(3) and (4) The primary task assigned to the Sub-committee was to review and up-date the original guide on advertising of proprietary medicines recommended by Council in 1961 and prepared by a similar Sub-committee. The new guide drawn up by the Sub-committee was accepted by Council at its 72nd Session.  Major changes  in the guide involve further restrictions on advertising of analgesics and vitamins and the types of professional recommendations permitted. I would be happy to make a copy of the guide available to the honourable member if he so desires. 
Under the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-71 the Director-General of Health must approve all advertisements for proprietary medicines on radio and television. Legislation for advertising in other media is the responsibility of the various States; The Australian Media Council exerts a voluntary control over advertisements for proprietary medicines placed in its members' newpapers. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A matching grant of $337,004.26 has been made to Western Australia. 
In addition, projects which could attract subsidies under the Act have been approved in Queensland and Tasmania. However these States have not yet claimed reimbursement. 
Section5 of the Act provides that the amount available to each State shall not exceed: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The maintenance costs of public hospitals by type of ward are not available to my Depart- ment except in the Northern Territory where all beds are classified as public ward beds. 
It is estimated that the daily maintenance costs (including out-patients' costs) per approved public hospital bed (i.e. approved for payment of Commonwealth hospital benefits) in each of the States and Territories for the year 1968-69, the latest year for which figures are available, were: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am not aware of any national survey having been carried out solely for the purpose of determining the proportion of hospital beds occupied by the victims of road accidents. On the other hand, data available on patients discharged from certain hospitals in a number of States provides some information on this question: 
Of the total bed days provided in public hospitals in Queensland during 1969, 1.5 per cent were for patients with injuries attributed to motor vehicle accidents. The similar figure for public hospitals in Western Australia for 1970 was 3.9 per cent, and that for Tasmania 4.7 per cent; while . in South Australia 4 public hospitals recorded a combined ratio of 5.3 per cent for the 12 months ending 30th June 1970. 
As public hospitals generally receive more casualty patients than do private hospitals, the above ratios would be higher than those for all hospitals within the respective States. In the case of South Australia the 4 hospitals, while providing just over one-third of total hospital beds, are estimated to have received at least two-thirds of motor vehicle accident cases requiring hospitalisation during the period. 
Similar information is not available in respect of hospitals in New South Wales and Victoria. In these States, details are confined to those patient days which were covered by third party, claims. The resulting ratios, 2.0 per cent in New South Wales for the 12 months ending 30th June 1968 and 3.2 per cent in Victoria for the year ended 30th June 1970, are therefore underestimates to the extent that they exclude casualties from motor vehicle accidents the circumstances of which did not allow for a third party claim. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
An advertising programme costing $83,000 was carried out through the press, radio and television in July and August of 1970 to help introduce the new Health Benefits Plan. Special mention was made in the press and radio advertisements of the Subsidised Health Benefits Scheme. 
No foreign language advertising of the Subsidised Health Benefits Scheme was carried out in 1970-71 because of the short time available for preparation of an advertising campaign between the passage of legislation through Parliament and the commencement in July of the new Health Benefits Plan. However, ' during the period December 1969 to March 1970 an advertising programme dealing exclusively with Subsidised Health Benefits was carried out at a total cost of $43,000. This advertising included the placement of display sized advertisements in newspapers published in11 foreign languages and radio advertising in three foreign languages. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The document discussing in depth the development of Australia's natural resources was completed in October, 1970. 
The original document has been revised and ls currently the subject of ' interdepartmental consideration. 
The document was prepared within the Department of National Development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The January, 1969 report on the. development of Darwin's port and harbour facilities prepared by Maunsell and Partners was made public when it was given as evidence to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in October, 1970. A limited number of copies are obtainable from the Department of National Development at $16.00 a copy. 
I should explain that my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, represents the Attorney-General in this House but he will not be back until tomorrow. I will see that this interesting question is referred to him for consultation with his colleague in another place so that a suitable answer may be provided. 
I suggest that the order for consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 16th September be varied by postponing consideration of proposed expenditure for the Department of the Interior until after consideration of proposed expenditure for the Department of Labour and National Service. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - ls the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Proposed expenditure, $20,500,000. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961-1970 I present the tenth annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
In closing this debate I do so on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  but because amendments generally concern civil aviation I feel that I should make some brief reference to them. I will certainly keep my remarks fairly brief on this occasion. I must say it is a little like old times being with my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle (MrCharles Jones) again dealing with aviation matters. I fully acknowledge that in his capacity as the shadow Minister in this field he has every opportunity, and certainly takes advantage of it, to deal with matters of this nature. He has, of course, a perfect right to move amendments of the type we are discussing. But the Government does not accept the amendment which has been proposed. I think that generally the matters that have been referred to have been clearly answered by the previous speakers on the Government side, more particularly by the Assistant Minister  (Mr McLeay),  who assists the Minister for Civil Aviation and who is now in the House. He covered in some detail a number of matters that have been raised and indicated quite clearly, I think, the reason why the amendment could not be accepted. 
I will refer very briefly to one or two of them just to supplement some of the points he made. First of all I would like lo refute any misunderstanding that may have emerged from the debate as to the status and standing of the Department of Civil Aviation and also the management of Qantas Airways Ltd. Having had some experience for a number of years in close association with the Department of Civil Aviation, the present Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  the Assistant Minister, the Director-General, the senior staff, indeed the whole of the staff throughout Australia and in other parts of the world, I can say that they have established a reputation for aviation of which Australia should be duly proud. I am sure this is acknowledged by the Opposition. The same thing could be said, I think, for the Qantas organisation. Some criticism of the Qantas management has been made in the amendment moved by the Opposition. That is criticism of the organisation as a whole. I pay a tribute not only to the Qantas board of management but to the whole of the organisation because of the high standing it has achieved and its high world standard which is recognised. Whilst problems of a commercial and industrial nature may arise from time to time within any organisation, I think it has been acknowledged that the standard of operation, services and reliability of Qantas is without betterment by any other international airline operator in the world today. So the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill (No. 2), which is related to providing additional loans to extend the equipment of our international airline operator, should be given an accelerated passage through the House. 
Certainly, associated with this is the slowing down of the ordering of some of the additional Boeing 747 equipment. I have had the opportunity of travelling on the new Qantas Boeing 747B aircraft. Having had the opportunity to compare travel on this aircraft with that on other Boeing 747 aircraft operating in the world today, I would say that the Qantas aircraft are outstanding not only in the service that is provided but also in the standard of the equipment that is provided. So I would like to start on this premise: We have an airline of which we are proud. We have an organisation which is carrying out, and from the results that have been achieved over the years has carried out, its task in a successful way. It has been pointed out during this debate that there are some problems facing Qantas at the present time. This has been indicated clearly by the figures which have been cited. There is a lower rate of profitability in the airline industry at the present time than there has been in some previous years. 
The situation is that other major airlines in the world are suffering the problem to a far greater extent than is Qantas. I think it has been quoted already, for example, that Pan American World Airways has reported losses to the extent of $US46m, Trans World Airlines Pty Ltd $US64m and American Airlines Inc. $US26m. These are actual losses, not profits. They were sustained during the past year. There has been a marked downward trend in traffic growth so far in 1971. This has resulted in both the cancellation of services and the deferment of aircraft orders by these world operators. In the first 7 months of this year, Pan Am has reported a loss of $US23m, Trans World Airlines $US17m and American Airlines $US13m. Whilst we have been talking about a slight decline in profit recorded by Qantas and perhaps being critical of it for this, we must compare its performance with the downturn in air traffic growth and the consequent enormous losses by some of its major competitors in the world today. So I can only say that the Qantas operation, showing a profit as it is in these circumstances, must be one of efficiency. It is also a tribute to the whole staff of Qantas from the management and flying staff to the ground and office staffs. 
Reference has been made during this debate to charter services. There is no suggestion that Qantas has not been willing to participate wholeheartedly in the charter field. It has, in fact, been very active this year in this field and has performed over 650 charter flights, carrying nearly 100,000 passengers on those flights. As honourable members will be aware, the Minister for Civil Aviation and Qantas have announced that the charter operation will be extended and that a nonInternational Air Transport Association subsidiary company will be able to operate a special low fare charter service between Australia and Europe outside of the IATA framework. This indicates very clearly the intention of Qantas to proceed further in this particular field. It is very interesting to know that Qantas is still getting and is maintaining a substantial share of the traffic market. At the same time it is interesting to know that this share, whilst perhaps it is a smaller share than it was in the previous year, is increasing in volume. There is a greater volume of traffic for Qantas and this trend can be expected to continue in the future. But whilst there have been some perhaps pessimistic forecasts in relation to Qantas' profitability in the future I am completely confident, knowing the efficiency of its operations in the past, that it can overcome the difficulties associated with the present situation and that Qantas will continue in a situation of profit in the future which will be in marked contrast to many of its major competitors throughout the world. 
-I was just going to refer to that situation because it is referred to in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle, supported by the Opposition, but, as I, have already said, rejected by the Government. The position at the moment was explained in detail by the Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr McLeay)  and I will just refer to this by quoting one or two figures. Of the retrenchments, which include 42 cadets, 67 of the 96 pilots under retrenchment have found alternative employment. The position of 16 pilots at the present time is not known. Only 13 of the 96 were or are currently working as second officers. Of the 42 cadets 27 were offered employment with the Department of Civil Avia tion as air traffic controllers but none has yet accepted. I merely indicate the present situation to show not only that Qantas is aware of the situation and trying to assist these people but also that the Department of Civil Aviation is doing its best in this field to assist in a situation where some personnel in the Qantas flying staff have had to be retrenched. 
As is indicated by these figures the offer made by Department of Civil Aviation is apparently still under consideration and has not yet been taken up by a number of cadets who have had the opportunity to take this alternative employment. I can assure the House that the Government is fully aware of this problem and whilst it is a problem affecting our own international airline it is not on the same scale as that affecting the major competitors, particularly those in the United States. We are perhaps more fortunate because we are still maintaining a substantial share of the traffic here. We are still maintaining a basis of profitability and whilst there have been some retrenchments alternative offers of employment have been made for quite a number of the personnel concerned and everything possible will be done through the Department of Civil Aviation and Qantas to assist the others in these fields. 
The last point I want to refer to as far as the amendment is concerned relates to the offsetting arrangements. This criticism was replied to by the Minister assisting the Minister . for Civil Aviation when he indicated quite clearly - and I refer to this because the Offsetting arrangements were initiated at a time when I was the Minister for Civil Aviation - that these arrangements were made in conjunction with the Department of Defence and, as has been indicated, the Australian defence industries mission which visited the United States has had some substantial success in this field. Although the figure of $3. 8m has been quoted as direct evidence of offset orders which have been received there are other opportunities available and everything possible is being done in this field to ensure that advantage will be taken of offset business in the aviation industry I am sure that as a result of the activities that have been initiated, in future we will see far more done in this field In view of the time factor I will merely conclude on that note, again saying that the amendments proposed by the Opposition are not acceptable to the Government for the reasons that have been set out by speakers from the Government side and by paying a further tribute not only to the Department of Civil Aviation but also to Australia's international carrier, Qantas, for the high standard of efficiency which they have maintained in the past and which we know they will maintain in the future. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Charles Jones' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A tabulation has been made by my Department of the ownership by Australian interests of firms engaged in the export of (a) coal and (b) bauxite, alumina and primary aluminium. It has been based solely on published information. Full details of overseas portfolio investment in Australian companies are not always available and the accuracy of the figures quoted  is  subject  to  this qualification: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any such connections. 
The Commonwealth Government has not imposed any conditions on the consortium involved; however in relation to ventures of this nature the Government has made it clear that it would expect that Australians be given the opportunity to participate in the equity of the company and that Australian citizens also participate in its management. 
I am afraid I cannot give the completely up to date position regarding Essendon but I know that the decision that had been made initially when arrangements were made for the transfer of the major domestic airline operations and the international operations to Tullamarine was that Essendon would be retained for general aviation purposes and for use by commuteroperators. Apparently quite a number of operations are taking place there at the moment and quite a number of facilities are being used. I have seen reports in this regard. 
At the present time my understanding is that the matter is being fully reviewed by the Minister for Civil Aviation and that as soon as an official decision is made regarding the area an announcement will be made. However I think I should direct the attention of the House to the situation regarding general aviation operations in all the capital cities in Australia. They have been expanding quite considerably although they have slowed down a little over the last year or so due to problems in rural areas; but there was quite a rapid expansion at one stage of our history. There has been a slight slowing down but there will be a further expansion so far as the requirement for general aviation purposes is concerned. Therefore from an aviation point of view Essendon will be a most valuable asset. So this matter has to be considered very carefully. However, as I said a moment ago, the matter is being reviewed at the present time and as soon as the Minister is in a position to do so he will make a statement on it. 
I appreciate the interest which the honourable member shows in an industry which will be of vital importance to Australia in the future, particularly as the major uranium deposits that have so far been discovered in Australia are in the Northern Territory. I think it is important to note that the present situation throughout the world is that there is sufficient nuclear fuel available to meet existing requirements for a few years, but that by about 1976 or 1977 the position should vary and from then on the demand for nuclear fuel will increase rapidly until the early 1980s when it will escalate considerably. Therefore the position is that the whole of the industry must be geared to meet a rapid increase in demand for nuclear fuels in the early 1980s, persisting through into the next century, because whilst we may have some faith in the research and experimentation associated with the fast breeder type of reactor, that of course will not become a viable proposition for some years and will not have its main impact until early in the new century. So there will be an increase in demand for enriched uranium fuel for the remainder of this century. 
Of course, this brings Australia very much into the forefront when consideration is given to the development of a nuclear industry during the next decade. Because of this we, as did some other countries, have had some discussions with the United States because at the present time the United States is the only major supplier of enriched fuel to the free world. As a result of the discussions in the United States, and also in Canada, an agreement was reached with the United States, because in the early 1980s the United States will reach saturation point as far as supplies of enriched uranium fuel to the free world from her own sources are concerned. It agreed to make available under certain conditions the gaseous diffusion enrichment technology to certain countries, including Australia. As a result of these early discussions and the agreement by the United States in this very important field, we arranged for a team from Australia to take part in the first discussions which commenced just a few days ago. 
There are 2 groups of discussions, one for the Pacific region which includes principally Australia, Canada, the United States and Japan with observers from the European Economic Community countries and the United Kingdom and the other for the European countries. The Australian team has attended the first discussions relating to the Pacific region and it will also take part in the discussions with the European group. When the discussions have been concluded the team will report to me and the matter will then be considered further by the Government. In conclusion I would like to say that this will be a vitally important industry to Australia in the future and will have a tremendous influence on our economic development during the next couple of decades. 
The last meeting of the Australian Forestry Council was chaired by my colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise in his capacity as Minister assisting the Minister for National Development. The question of the softwood planting programme for the next 5 years was discussed at that meeting. There had been some recommendations from the previous meeting of the Forestry Council, which I chaired, which had been submitted to the various governments for consideration. They related to a continuation of assistance by the Commonwealth to the States for a programme projecting over the next 5 years. When the matter was considered by the Commonwealth a decision was made in the context of the present budgetary situation to provide very substantial funds to support the softwood planting programme which is basically the responsibility of the State governments but which is supplemented by the grant from the Commonwealth over the period. A very substantia] allocation was made to assist the States in the new programme. This matter was discussed at the last meeting of the Australian Forestry Council. It was agreed to in principle at that meeting. 
Subsequently a number of matters relating to the responsibility of the States to increase their plantings in accordance with the arrangements were raised. Further negotiations have subsequently been conducted at an official level. At present there are still a number of matters that have to be resolved. I would like to point out that in the case of South Australia, whilst that State- 
The answer is yes. 
First, I thank the Committee for what I think generally has been a most constructive debate on matters of great importance. During the debate many members have raised a number of matters which require careful and intensive study, some of them relating to water conservation schemes, and I assure those honourable members that in view of the points they have made these matters will be studied carefully. The Opposition moved an amendment to the estimates for my Department. The amendment related to a national fuel and power policy. Recently I was asked to deliver an address to the Australian Academy of Science science and industry forum on 16th October on the topic 'Australia's National Energy Policy'. Unfortunately I could not deliver the address myself because the Parliament was sitting but I arranged for it to be delivered on my behalf. The address covers substantially most of the points that I would make in relation to the amendment. I have discussed this matter with the Opposition and it has been agreed that this address should be incorporated in Hansard. In view of the time factor, this would be the most adequate way of replying to the amendment. I seek leave to incorporate the address in Hansard. 
I was interested to learn that the Australian Academy of Science proposed to hold this Forum' meeting on the subject of a national fuel policy for Australia; and I appreciated being asked to open this forum by presenting a statement on the Commonwealth Government's policy on this matter. I regret that I have not been able to attend to deliver this statement in person. Fuel, and the energy that it produces, is of vital importance to the modern world and particularly to the industrially developed countries. It is natural that the Governments of those countries have commonly preoccupied themselves with questions affecting their energy economies and have developed more or less well integrated energy policies. The United Kingdom, the European Economic Community, the United States and Japan have all given this matter a deal of attention. 
There has been in recent years a fair amount of public urging in Australia on the subject of the need for a national fuel and energy policy for Australia, and criticism of its alleged lack. Thus a writer in the 'Financial Review' of 7th October reported that 'a strong criticism of "complacency and inaction" and a call for an overall Australian fuel and energy policy, planned and co-ordinated on a national basis' had been made by Professor N. Y. Kirov in a recent issue of the journal of ANZAAS. 
Let us look at the facts of the fuel and energy situation in Australia. The Australian energy economy is divided into two parts. On the one hand there is the market for automotive energy - 1 mean for road, rail and air transport - which is supplied by petroleum fuels - the energy source which is portable par excellence; and on the other hand there is the market for energy for general purposes, predominantly concerned with the generation and use of electricity, the fuel for which has been mainly coal, but which prospectively will also be natural gas and nuclear fuels. Indeed, natural gas is already being used for electricity generation in South Australia. These two parts of our energy economy do inter-act with one another but so far only in limited ways. In their main features they have been independent Moreover their geographic characteristics are very  different. The general market for energy in Australia subsists on a State basis. In the main, and with some exceptions such as the electrical interconnection of the Victorian and New South Wales grids through the Snowy scheme - each State has its own energy requirements which are supplied by using its own fuel resources. The generation of electricity required in that State is in the hands of public utilities which are creatures of State governments and follow policies laid down by them. In this field it is broadly true to say that there is no Australian energy economy but six State energy economies, in the main separate from each other. In this situation, and as regards general-purpose energy, there has been no occasion for a national energy policy. Our Federal system does not call for one and the facts of our geography and economy have not required one. 
I would put two glosses on the argument that I have just presented. The first is that it is an argument about the near past and the present, rather than about the future. With the advent of natural gas and nuclear fuel as major sources of energy in Australia, this de facto separation of State energy economies will be modified in some important ways. Interstate supply of natural gas to Sydney from South Australia now seems likely, and in addition to the established gas resources known to exist in the Gippsland offshore basin there is gas in the Northern Territory, not yet fully assessed, but possibly of dimensions that might render supply across State boundaries a feasible project. As to nuclear fuels, these have a number of aspects, such as the scale and complexity of their use, security aspects and the international implications of dealing with fissionable materials which will be of national concern. Looking to the future, therefore, I believe that we will see national policies being developed in these matters which will affect the deployment of our resources for the generation of general purpose energy throughout the country. 
In fact this process has already started. As regards natural gas, the Commonwealth a year ago announced that the export of this material would be controlled by the Commonwealth in the interest of conservation of this resource for Australian needs- -arid we indicated the general lines of the policy that we would follow in this matter. As regards nuclear energy, discussions between Commonwealth and State officials on various complex technical issues have already got well under way. 
The second gloss is that, even while the main policy questions and decisions in the generalpurpose energy fields have been for the individual States, .there have been some aspects of wider concern, on which national action has been taken. I have in mind such means as research into the production and utilisation of coal, the assessment of our reserves of the different categories of coal and assistance to States in relation to particular energy purposes accepted as being of national importance. In all of these matters there has been collaboration between States and the Commonwealth in which policies have been worked out and implemented appropriate to the issues involved. I shall speak of some of these matters in more detail presently. But by and large it has been true that the central function of producing and supplying general-purpose energy, and the working out of policies basic to this activity, has been left to each State to handle in its own jurisdiction as it has thought fit 
It is a very different story, when we turn to the automotive section of our energy economy. This market is not fragmented on a State basis. It is true that the actual supply lines of petroleum products mostly radiate out from the State capitals. But the petroleum refining and distributing industry, in confronting its market, deals with Australia as a whole. The supply of crude oil came until recently from overseas, and now comes predominantly from one offshore source. In this field the issues are indeed national; and in this field we have long had a clear and very active national fuel policy. We have taken the view that we should seek to bring substantially to an end our historical dependence on overseas sources of supply, for crude oil and should aim at a situation where as far as practicable our needs for such products as motor spirit, automotive distillate and aviation fuel are produced by Australian refiners from Australian crude oil. To this end we have developed over the years a number of measures or techniques to encourage the exploration for the development of the petroleum resources of this country. 
It would be tedious to describe these measures in too much detail. Briefly, they consist of: 
Provision through the Bureau of Mineral Resources of my Department of the basic geological and geophysical survey services, on a natural basis, which are needed by the oil search industry to base its own more particular and concentrated exploration for petroleum deposits. &lt;2) Subsidisation of the exploration for petroleum under a legislative scheme initiated in 1957, involving a Commonwealth expenditure to date of some $114,000,000. 
Provision of special income tax concessions to petroleum search companies and investors therein. 
The assurance through the Commonwealth's constitutional powers over imports and exports of a guaranteed access to the Australian market for all producers of Australian crude oil - and as a concomitant to this guarantee the fixing of an appropriate price for that crude. 
The details of these various measures have been reviewed and adjusted by the Government from time to time, as appeared called for by the changing circumstances. We are in fact at this moment engaged, at the request of the oil search industry, in a general review of the incentives thus offered to the effort to find more crude oil in this country. But the basic policy purpose of the measures has remained constant. 
I have been speaking about the extent and shape of the Commonwealth Government's energy policy: I should now like to say something about the objectives of such a policy. There is no lack of statements of principle as to what such objectives should be. 
 The Energy Committee of the Organisationfor Economic Co-operation and Development in a report entitled 'Energy Policy, Problems and Objectives' stated (paragraph 358): 
 Within the framework of broad economic and social objectives, energy policies could be tested and balanced against the following principles: 
The realisation in the long term of the lowest energy costs for the community as a whole and of reasonable and stable prices for each consumer. 
Secure and regular supply, 
Competition and transparency in energy markets. 
Consumer's freedom of choice between competing fuels, on the basis of prices which reflect costs of supply. 
Safeguarding public health and preserving other resources. 
These are very much the sort of principles that we support. In fact as 1 have shown our considerable activity in regard to petroleum has been directed essentially towards ensuring for Australia a secure and regular supply of that vital fuel, and a supply independent of the vagaries of overseas price manipulations. It is often argued that the main elements of an energy, policy should be: 
a comprehensive stock-taking of our energy resources; 
a determination of the best use to which each of these resources should be allocated and a co-ordinated control of their use accordingly: 
I should like to make some comments on this approach. 
It is always useful to know as much as you can about the extent of your resources and 1 agree that the stock-taking of such resources is a proper and highly desirable function of government. Such stock-takings should be carried out not infrequently and at the times when they can provide up to date information for any practical decision that may have to be made. Professor Kirov's article in 'Search' which I already mentioned quoted a warning in the 1970 Annual Report of the Joint Coal Board querying thelong term adequacy of Australia's black coal resources, with particular reference to coking coal suitable for the steel industry, and in the light of our growing export trade. It was against this background that in 1970 the Bureau of Mineral Resources of my Department made a review of Australia's black coal resources, on the basis of existing information. This work was carried out with the generous and necessary assistance of firms in the industry and of State Mines Departments; and the results were published in June of this year in the 'Australian Mineral Industry Quarterly Review'. The figures collated showed that we have very considerable resources of recoverable coking coal - some 7,000 million tons in fact. 
There are however some points that must be made about the relevance of this sort of exercise. All that it accomplishes is a collation of the existing information about the mineral resource in question. It does not, and obviously can not, tell us how much more resources still exist undis covered in the ground - or even if discovered insufficiently assessed for any sound quantitative figures to be put upon them. The discovery and assessment of a country's mineral resources only take place in the course of the long and expensive processes of mineral exploration - and that process itself will only occur if the eonomic incentives exist in the form of patent opportunities for profitable exploitation if discoveries are made. In these circumstances any fuel industry naturally does not find it economic to push its exploration programmes too far ahead of its production needs. They will aim to keep the figure of their 'reserves' (that is to say its known and measured resources) in a reasonable ratio to their prospective production in the decade or so ahead of it. 
Thus the American Petroleum Institute quoted proved petroleum reserves in the United States in 1954 at 29 x 10 barrels. In 1969 the figure still stood at 29 x 10 barrels - having moved up and down to 30 and 31 x 10 barrels in the meantime. Yet over this period 1954-1969 some 40 x 10 barrels had been produced. So really, the sort of assessment that it is practical to make of a country's resources of any mineral fuel - be it coal, petroleum or uranium - can tell us a quantity which we know we possess but cannot tell us how much more we may have which we do not know about. Its usefulness as a basis for a conservation policy is limited accordingly. 
Only a year ago we believed that our uranium resources might be barely sufficient for our own modest local needs: now we know that we are likely to be a major world supplier. If youthink back a little further in time you will remember that in the earlier post-war years we were most carefully husbanding our resources of iron orefor the future needs of our own steel industry in ignorance of the vast deposits of this mineral that were soon to be discovered in the Pilbara. 
If our knowledge of the resources that we may possess to supply our future needs is limited, so also of course is our fore-knowledge of those needs themselves. It is not hard, by simple extrapolation refined with a few side glances at what is happening in industriesthat are important energy users, to predict with a reasonable margin of error, our requirements for the various fuels for 5 years or even up to a decade ahead. But when you are thinking of long term periods the uncertainties multiply and grow. You are then trying to envisage conditions as they will be when there has been time for new major resource discoveries to be made affecting competitive costs and for new technologies to be developed both in the energy industry itself and in the energy using industries, any of which can radically affect the demand for particular fuels. Also there is the growing ferment as to the bearing of ecological issues on our way of life which may by 20 or 30 years time have greatly modified our patterns of energy consumption. Yet in any attempt to measure up the adequacy of our resources against our future needs, it is our needs in 20 or 30 years time that really should be thought about. And so this is an exercise which has to be approached with a good deal of humility and which can only shed a very uncertain light for policy makers. 
Let me exemplify these problems by referring to our current situation as regards natural gas. As I have already mentioned, the Commonwealth controls the export of natural gas for the purpose of ensuring that adequate reserves are kept for Australian use. Highly promising discoveries of gas have been made in several locations in Australia which may well prove big enough to base an economic export project. That would involve the liquefaction of the gas and its overseas transport in special insulated tankers - a project calling for investment of many hundreds of millions of dollars and requiring an assumption oflong term continuity. The same natural gas will be a very valuable and acceptable fuel for our own economy. In the United States they followed a policy of cheap supply of natural gas, which encouraged its consumption but did not particularly encourage its development. In the result they are now dependent for 33 per cent of their energy on natural gas, but their available gas resources are much less than satisfactory. How many years supply of natural gas should we then aim to keep for ourselves before allowing export? Should we suppose that all the electricity we need in30 years time will be efficiently produced from nuclear fuels with no pollution problems leaving no important call for gas for this purpose? From the point of view of showing good company profits in return for major exploration and development expenditure, immediate returns (for example from an export project) are much more attractive than the proceeds of possible sales (even at higher prices) in 30 years time, and are consequently more conducive to continued exploration. Research and study can give no firm answers to these questions; and best assessments have to be made. 
Of course, the great size of our country contributes to our problems. And so for that matter in a sense does our free enterprise approach - our adherence if you like to the OECD principle of free selection by the consumer of the energy source which suits him best. One of my officers was recently in Rumania and I was interested in his report of the fuel policy in that country. Rumania has a relatively small area and has been extensively prospected over a long period, because of its history of oil production. As a result its fossil fuel resources are reasonably well known. The Communist Government of course exercise a highly centralised authoritarian control over the economy. In these circumstances their policy is to regulate the use of both local and imported fuel in a completely rational way to derive the most advantage from the heating and chemical properties of the fuels. The rationale that they follow in this regard is not wholly economic - it is qualified by the political exigencies of their relations to the neighbouring communist countries. 
Finally, there is one important and pervasive element which should be part of any energy policy and which I must not fail to mention, namely scientific research. We cannot expect that our market patterns and peculiarities in Australia will be the same as in any of the great industrial economies of the world; and of course our local fuel materials are peculiarly ours. Australian conditions will inevitably present their special features. The Commonwealth has been active in regard to research in the fields of coal and nuclear energy. Work in the latter of course is carried out by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Coal research has been both coordinated and financially supported through the operations of an industry government committee known as the National Coal Research Advisory Committee. The Bureau of Mineral Resources, as I have already mentioned, makes a basic contribution to the search for petroleum. 
If we are to understand the problems and potentialities of our own needs and resources we must research them ourselves; we cannot depend on overseas science to do it for us. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Connor's)  be agreed to. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The honourable member has been recently provided with the extensive documentation required to answer his question to the extent that it is practicable to do so. The volume and nature of this material, covering some 2,000 accidents over a ten year period, is such that it is not practicable to have it included in Hansard or reproduced so as to provide all honourable members with copies. If the honourable member, however, desires further information relating to a particular accident occurring within this period or if any other honourable member desires to inspect the material provided to the honourable member for Hughes, I would be pleased to give consideration to such a request 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
11th June 1971. Sydney. 

 Hon. D. L. Chipp, M.P., Minister for Customs &amp; Excise  (Chairman) (representing Hon. R. W. Swartz, M.B.E., E.D., M.P., Minister for National Development). 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested has been presented in tabular form. Details of capital expenditure in each of the last 10 years are provided in the first table. 
Maintenance and operating expenditure over the same period is presented in the second table. This table has been broadened to include a column for 'maintenance of aircraft, vehicles, plant, tools, furniture and office equipment, etc.*. Depreciation and interest charges and the cost of Head Office and Regional offices have not been included in this table. 
The sources of revenue are detailed in the third table, including aviation fuel tax which is collected by the Department of Customs and Excise. Dividends from Qantas Airways Limited and the Australian National Airlines Commission are not included. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The final cost is not yet available but it will closely approximate $5 million. 
Yes. 
The maintenance base complex is being leased to Ansett Airlines of Australia at a rental which is calculated to return the Commonwealth's outlay, plus interest at 7) per cent per annum, over a period of 40 years. For rental calculation purposes, the Commonwealth's outlay includes interest on progress payments during the construction period. The airline is responsible for insurance of the assets and their maintenance and, in addition, is leasing the site at the standard ground rental. 
A maintenance base was also constructed for TAA at a cost of approximately $6m. The terms of TAA's occupancy are precisely the same as (hose for Ansett Airlines of Australia. Both maintenance bases will always remain the property of the Commonwealth. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
No. 
(a) No. 
A limited survey of departing passengers was undertaken at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport on 18th March 1970. This survey showed the distribution of the localities from which passengers began their journeys on that day. In summary, this was: 
The  Minister  for  Health  has  provided  the  following answer  to the  honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth benefit for insured patients of 12 a day became effective from 1st January 1962. However, between 1st January 1958 and 1st January 1962, the total Commonwealth benefits for insured patients totalled $2 per day, being made up of 80c ordinary, hospital benefits and $1.20 for contributors insured in a table of hospital benefits providing fund benefits of at least $1.60 per day. The date of 1st January 1958 has been taken for the purposes of answering this question. 
(a) The maximum charges for treatment in the various wards of public hospitals in each. State as at 1st January 1958 were: 
I will be pleased to have discussions on this important matter with my colleague. 
 Mr Chairman,  I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 4th November be varied by postponing the consideration of the proposed expenditure for the Postmaster-General's Department until after consideration of the proposed expenditures for the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Services. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My attention has been drawn to the article referred to in your question. The preliminary findings of Professor Ford's survey support medical evidence accepted by the Government that cigarette smoking has a causal relationship with carcinoma of the lung. 
The Commonwealth's policy in respect of educating the public on the hazards of smoking is to intensify health educational programmes directed primarily towards young people. In the Territories  for  which the Government is responsible health education programmes include material such as films and brochures. Graphic demonstration of facts in T.V. commercials is not considered to be the appropriate approach in educating young people. 
 The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth is guided in these matters by the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council, which to date has made no recommendation that road injuries should be included in the list of notifiable diseases. 
However, the Traffic Injury Committee of Council considers all relevant medical aspects relating to road injuries. At its next meeting the Victorian decision to make road injuries notifiable will, I am informed. be discussed. 
 The Minister for Health has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not available. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1970, I present the twentysixth annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  honourable members may have noticed that there is a notice of motion on the Daily Programme sheet standing in my name. That motion relates to the hours of sitting for the last 3 weeks of this session and it will be moved tonight. I cannot refer to that matter at this point of time. A discussion has been held with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
Barnard) as to the hours of sitting for what we hope will be the last 3 weeks of the present sittings. In regard to any additional sitting time, I have mentioned this matter to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. It is my hope that we will not have late night sittings for the remainder of this sessional period. I hope that we can confirm to sitting times which will allow for reasonable finishing times at night. 
As far as Friday sittings are concerned, it would be my hope that as we have just made the present arrangements for the existing days of sittings that we would not be required to sit on Fridays. But of course this is qualified and it is completely in the hands ofthe House. But if in the last week of this sitting there remains some business which we should clean up it may be acceptable and agreeable to honourable members to sit on the Friday. The problem is that the programme is geared to complete the sitting on 9th December but of course this again is in the hands of the House. If we are able to complete the business by that time the House will naturally rise. I would hope that we will not have late nights during the remainder of the sittings and we will try to avoid sitting on Fridays. If it is not possible to complete the sittings by 9th December then naturally the House will continue after that date. Again it is completely in the hands of the House, but what I have said indicates our line of thinking, which I have discussed and will continue to discuss with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 1 move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, commencing on Tuesday, 23rd November and continuing for the remainder of the year, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on each Tuesday and Wednesday at 2 o'clock p.m., and on each Thursday at 10 o'clock a.m. 
will not elaborate a great deal on this. Earlier I explained the position to honourable members. This motion has the support of the Government parties and it has been discussed with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The House agreed to an earlier motion that we should sit at 2 o'clock next Tuesday week. I commend this motion to the House as it will expedite the handling of the business for the remainder of this sessional period. 
I move: 
That the Bill bc now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for specification of annual salaries and fees and for- prescription of certain fees not paid on an annual basis for a number  of  statutory office holders appointed pursuant to the provisions of the Australian Wool Commission Act, the Broadcasting and Television Act, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act and the Criminology Research  Act.  This Bill is necessary because  of  the particular legislative provisions existing for these statutory office holders. The existing provisions, which have been included in the parent Acts over the last 2 years, have the effect that for the present the remuneration for the statutory office holders involved is prescribed in regulations but that from the beginning of 1972 it is to be determined by the Parliament 
The annual salaries for the statutory office holders concerned are set out in the First Schedule to the Bill, and accord with those now prescribed by regulation with the exception that regulations under the Criminology Research Act, which is not yet in operation, have not been made. It will be noted that provision is being made for prescription by regulation of remuneration for deputies of members of the Australian Wool Commission. The regulations which will be made pursuant to that provision will provide that a deputy member is to be paid $35 for attendance at a meeting of not less than 3 hours duration or $20 where a meeting is less than 3 hours. These are standard daily sitting fees paid to a large number of members of Commonwealth bodies. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate fa&gt; motion by  Mr  Crean) adjourned. 
Exploration for minerals and oil in Australia is a matter with which we keep in constant touch. I know the honourable member has always shown a personal interest in this matter and also has taken an interest through the various committees with which he is associated. The latest figures which I have indicate that although some major exploration companies in the mineral field have made some adjustment to their expenditure for this year we anticipate the total expenditure for mineral exploration in Australia to be much higher for this financial year than for the previous financial year. When it comes to the question of oil exploration we anticipate that the reverse situation will be a fact in that there will be less expenditure on oil exploration during this year than during the past year. Of course, we have had this matter under close examination. There is quite a big variation between the amount that is being expended on off-shore and on-shore exploration. The amount expended on off-shore exploration will perhaps be slightly down but the amount spent on on-shore exploration will be down to a reasonably substantial degree. 
I think this can be attributed to a number of reasons. One has some relation to the incentives that were and are still being provided in substantial amounts by the Government. The second has some relation to the problem relating to the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries that arose just some months ago and the third relates to the fact that we have not had a substantial discovery of liquid petroleum in Australia for some years. But the position is being carefully examined by the Government at the present time. In fact, an inter-departmental committee has been studying the situation for some months. We have received submissions, principally from the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association and from individual members of that association, and those submissions are being studied by the inter-departmental committee at the present time. After the committee has concluded its study in relation to the provision of incentives by the Commonwealth and whether the present situation should be changed or whether some other recommendations should be made to the Government for consideration, a report will be made on a ministerial basis and will then be considered by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Water Resources Council does not have any direct involvement in the National Water Resources Development Programme under which the Commonwealth Government provides finance to the State Governments to assist them with their works of water conservation. These projects are submitted by States individually and are considered by the Commonwealth Government. It is assumed that the honourable member's question is in fact related to the National Water Resources Development Programme and the following information is provided on that basis - 
Under phases I and 2 of the Programme the Commonwealth has agreed to make available up to$150m to the States of this amount$89m has been allocated of which advances actually made to the States at 30th June 1971 amounted to $34.218m. The equivalent figures for each State are as follows: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am aware of  Mr Scotton's  writings regarding the relationship between health insurance contributions and taxation concessions. 
and (3) The honourable member's question is couched in such vague terms that it is not possible to provide a concrete answer. 
In the absence of a more precise indication of the income levels in relation to which the honourable members seeks information, it is not possible to confirm the figures. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
I am not aware of any significant developments towards the securing of Australia-wide recognition of qualifications obtained in any Stale or Territory in the fields listed. The question of the recognition of overseas qualifications continues toreceive the attention of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
This information is not available in respect of each class of beneficiary. The following sets out the total number of unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries who enrolled in a health insurance fund during the year ended 30th June 1971: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
lt would be a normal situation for a Fokker Fellowship aircraft to proceed to Broome or Derby without carrying fuel to proceed to an alternative aerodrome provided that the forecast weather conditions and facilities at the destination  aerodrome met specified minimum requirements. 
The forecast weather conditions and facilities at Derby, were such that the Fokker Fellowship aircraft which landed at Fitzroy Crossing on 3 1st July 1971 was noi required to provide for an alternative aerodrome on that .flight. 
Had Fitzroy Crossing been unserviceable either Kununurra or Halls Creek was available for use by the aircraft, lt would have been necessary however, for the pilot in command to have decided to depart' from Derby earlier than he did. 
Civil Aviation Flight: North-western Australia  (Question &gt;to. 4284) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The flight time for the fuel remaining of 300- 5(1(1 lb would have been between 4 and 6 minutes. 
Airports: North-western Australia (Question No. 4285) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For both the Fokker Friendship and Fokker Fellowship aircraft, nc aerodromes a,e specifically classified as alternative aerodromes for either Derby or Broome. Aerodromes in the area that have the necessary facilities to permit them to ho nominated as alternatives when required are P.,r Hedland, Dampier, Derby, Broome, Meekatharra. Darwin and Kununurra. 
The conditions under which the pilot in command must nominate an alternative aerodrome an J the requirements nf the nominated alternative ure stated in the aeronautical Information Publication. 
and (3) The answer; to questions (2) and (3) are combined in tabular form and Jr(. listed below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Mineral Resources maintains a continuous study of the supply - demand position of,, and future possible trends in mineral commodities both on a national and an international scale. However, the Bureau has not undertaken any specific study concerning the elasticity of supply for the minerals obtained from mineral sands. 
The question of maximising national returns by contracting or expanding production of  Mineral  sands is a complex one as so many imponderables are involved. 
While Australia enjoys a near world monopoly as a supplier of rutile, it is only one of a large number of suppliers of ilmenite. both of which can be used as a source of titanium dioxide and titanium metal. If production of rutile was restricted world demand for these products would inevitably bc met from upgraded ilmenite and processing plants could become geared to the feedstock rather than to rutile. This is already occurring to some extent. Zircon is produced as a by-product of rutile and ilmenite mining; the level of production both in Australia and overseas is geared to the level of production of the other 2 minerals. Substitutes will undoubtedly erode zircon's traditional market if zircon process were increased to any marked degree. It is felt that in both the shorter and longer term a reduced output of mineral sands in Australia would reduce national revenue and would increase the risk of Australian producers losing some of their markets. 
The motion for the suspension of Standing Orders, which has been seconded, deals with quite an important matter. I think everyone in the chamber would agree with a number of the points that have been raised in relation to the importance of committees of the House. No doubt the committee system has proven itself to a certain degree in the Senate. But the matter before us relates to a report from the Standing Orders Committee which was submitted to the House on 10th June 1970. The points that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  quite within his rights, has raised today relate not to the report of the Standing Orders Committee but to an amendment which he moved in this House to the motion that the report of the Committee be adopted. 
I have a copy of the report of the Standing Orders Committee before me. The matters which were brought forward by the Standing Orders Committee have been dealt with to the greatest degree possible by the House. So we are not discussing the suspension of Standing Orders to enable us to discuss a considered report of the Standing Orders Committee; what we are discussing is an amendment which has been submitted by the honourable member for Wills in which he suggested on his own initiative the establishment of quite a large number of standing committees of this House and outlined matters of detail in relation to them. This of course is a matter that requires careful consideration but I think it requires consideration by the Standing Orders Committee. The Government' Members Committee on House Procedures has brought a number of recommendations which have been approved by the joint parties of the Government and they have been prepared in the form of a memorandum to the Standing Orders Committee for its consideration. There is still another matter relating to committees which is being considered by the Government members committee and when it has finalised its consideration of it the matter will be considered by the joint Government parties. No doubt following that there will be some other memorandum for consideration by the Standing Orders Committee. 
I suggest that this is the correct procedure. Ideas of this type should be discussed at length and debated in the forum which is established for that purpose within the caucus of the Opposition parties or within the joint meetings of the Government parties. Ideas which are formulated and recommended at those meetings can then be submitted to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration and then for report to the House for consideration by the House. This procedure is already been put under way by the Government parties. I suggest that if the Opposition wishes to consider this matter under what I believe would be the right procedure it should discuss this matter in its own caucus and then see that a proposal is submitted to the Standing Orders Committee, which is the right vehicle for the submission of a report to the Parliament. That is merely the background of the report that was submitted by the Standing Orders Committee and the amendment that was proposed by the honourable member for Wills. 
Whilst I am sure we have some sympathy with the honourable member for Wills - I know of his desire to bring this important matter forward - he should follow the procedures I suggest. However this is not the matter we are really debating at the present time. We are debating the suspension of Standing Orders to allow matters other than those that are on the notice paper to be debated. We have some very important business on the notice paper at the present time. We on this side and I know honourable members opposite are waiting to commence the debate on some very important housing Bills and other matters of great importance. Whilst we recognise and take on board the points that have been raised by the 2 honourable members who have spoken, I can assure them that the matter they have raised is already under consideration on the Government side of the House and some submission will later be made to the Standing Orders Committee when we have had time to examine the situation fully. I only suggest that the Opposition should adopt the same procedure. In view of the circumstances and the fact that the Government wishes to proceed with the business of the House, we cannot accept the motion as proposed. 
by leave - This matter has been discussed with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The arrangement which was made was that 1 should move that motion tonight and that the debate on it should take place as the first item of Government Business tomorrow. I thought the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would have been present to confirm this arrangement. It has been suggested that a certain number of speakers will take part in the debate. It will be the first item of business tomorrow. 
No, I have not moved the motion. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (11 and (2) See my answer to Question 3797 Hansard, 28th October 1971, page 2798. 
This will be decided by the Government. 
I will certainly sec that this matter is referred to my colleague in another place, but I would hate to let the matter rest at that point. The position is that an announcement has been made by the Minister for Civil Aviation that a nonaffinity charter company as a subsidiary of Qantas Airways Ltd has been formed and Wi 11 commence operations using the extensive Qantas fleet in the near future. But I do not think we should overlook the fact the Qantas has in its own right undertaken extensive charter operations over past years. In fact, the figures over the last 12 months, as revealed in its annual report, show that it did conduct charter operations not only to Europe but also through other areas. 
The position regarding overseas charter operations into Australia is that they are examined by the Department of Civil Aviation on their merits and there has been quite a considerable number of overseas charter flights into Australia over recent years. So there has been no embargo but there has been, of course, some strict consideration of the conditions relating to charter operations. However. I think I can assure the House, on behalf of my colleague, that everything possible will be done to extend the charter operations of the Qantas subsidiary. I will draw the attention of the Minister to the point that has been raised by the honourable member in relation to charter operations by other overseas companies. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Industry Act 1946-1966, I present the Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with the Auditor-General's report on the accounts of the Board. 
I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
I will not take up much time of the House on this matter, although I appreciate the light atmosphere that has been introduced by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  The procedure for dealing with general business is well understood by all honourable members, particularly the honourable member for Grayndler, who has been in this House a long time. 
Perhaps the interjection Ls correct. Correct or not, the honourable member understands the Standing Orders. He understands standing order 104. He understands also that the matter raised by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is a matter of general business. Today the House met earlier and by agreement of the House a longer period was devoted to general business than is normally allowed. In other words, not only has there been a debate on general business today but the debate has been extended for a period of half an hour beyond the normal period allocated for general business and I think that fact is understood by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Grayndler. 
The point is that Government business is listed for debate this afternoon. There is an important matter to be debated first. There are some important Bills that have to be debated and i am sure that honourable members opposite, as do all other honourable members in this House, want to get on with the business of the House. The matters that are under the heading General Business' on the notice paper are listed in accordance with the normal procedure and will be dealt with in accordance with the normal proceduresof this House. There will be no change under these circumstances. As it is necessary to get on to Government business, as listed this afternoon, as quickly as possible I am afraid that we cannot accept the motion that has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson and seconded bythe honourable member for Grayndler. In view of the fact that we must quickly get on to the business I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I merely want to give to the House an assurance that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has advised me that Cabinet will consider the position of regular servicemen who are finding difficulty in obtaining home finance. My understanding is that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  will be happy to accept this undertaking. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Thirty-nine regular international passenger flights terminate at Tullamarine each week whilst forty commence from Melbourne (Tullamarine) Airport in the same period. Additionally, there are on the average nine passenger charter flight arrivals at and eight departures from Tullamarine each week. 
The following aircraft flights are made at Tullamarine each week between the hours of 11. p.m. and 6 a.m.: 
Regular international passenger flights - six arrivals, seven departures; 
regular domestic passenger  flights-  twentysix arrivals, three departures; 
domestic freight flights - seventeen arrivals, thirty-seven departures. 
Yes. A total of nine arrivals and eight departures with  Electra  freighter aircraft are planned to operate at Tullamarinebetweenthe hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. when all Electra aircraft have been converted to thefreighterversion. This should  be  by September 1972. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Subsidy paid to Connair Pty Ltd was $447,739 in 1969-70 and $838,620 in 1970-71; $100,000 due in respect of the company's financial year ended 30th September 1970 was included in the 1970-71 payment. 
Present Directors are- 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

 Mr J. H. Harper, First Assistant DirectorGeneral (Operations), Department of Civil Aviation -  Chairman. 

 Mr R. S. Gilbert, Assistant Secretary (Transport and Communications), Department of the Treasury. 

 Mr E. S. Keehn, First Assistant Secretary (Property), Department of the Interior. 

 Mr H. C. Williams, Assistant DirectorGeneral (Roads and Aerodromes), Department of Works. 

 Mr N. A. W. Ashton, The  Chairman  of the State Planning Authority of New South Wales. 

 Mr N. W. McCusker, the Commissioner for Railways. 

 Mr R. J. S. Thomas, the Commissioner for Main Roads. 

 Mr A. A. Hillier, Chief Executive Officer, Defence Facilities Branch, Department of Defence, will also attend meetings as an observer. 
Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral  (Question No. 2466) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage is not an inter-governmental body and the Australian National' Committee for this organisation is therefore not responsible to any Minister of the Crown. I would suggest that if any information is desired, it might be obtained by writing direct to the Secretary, Australian National Committee, International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage, 7th Floor, T &amp;G Building, Hobart Place, Canberra City, A.C.T. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No analysis has been maintained which permits this question to be answered for the full period. The majority of freight is carried in scheduled passenger flights. Enquiries indicate that for at least the last three months at Perth: 
No jet freighter movements have been made  by AAA, TAA or international airlines; 
Only a very occasional non-jet freighter operation has been made by AAA or TAA, and none by international airlines; 
MMA operated a non-jet F27 incurring 8 movements per week, all between 6 a.m. and midnight; none between midnight and 6 a.m. 
Current AAA, TAA and international airline schedules do not include any exclusively freighter services for Perth. 
Note that one movement is counted for each landing or take-off. 
Refer to answer to (1). 
Analysis of actual traffic does not encompass a count of international movements separately from others. International airline movements at Perth Airport over the past five calendar years were scheduled to be as follows: 
A special analysis of data for the period 18th May 1971 to 30th May 1971 inclusive indicates the proportion of total international movements which occurred between midnight and 6 a.m. was 46 per cent. 
Operators of international movements scheduled as above were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under theAustralian Constitution the States are responsible for the utilisation ofnatural resources within their own boundaries; in forestry they grant franchises for forestry utilisation based on crown land forests. The role of the Commonwealth is to encourage development and assist in protecting the national interest. Through its export control powers the Commonwealth no doubt could exert some control over forestry operations and associated conservation problems to the extent that it could refuse approval to export wood chips to any company whose wood procurement operations were considered likely to be incompatible with the best interests of the community. However, as a matter of policy control over the manner in whichfield activities are conducted from day to day is outside the ambit of the present export control and is a matter more appropriate to the various State and Commonwealth. Authorities whose function is the investigation, control and management' of land based resources. 
The Commonwealth is anxious that the utilisation of natural resources should be in the national interest and every application for approval to export wood chips is judged on its merit having particular regard to price, provision for further processing in Australia and reforestation. On crownland, responsibility for reforestation rests with the appropriate State or Commonwealth Authority. The approval granted to Northern Woodchips Pty Ltd to export wood chips obtained from privately owned timber resources, was subject to the company undertaking an annual reforestation programme, of no less than 5,000 acres by 1975. Before any export approval is granted, the appropriate State Government is consulted in judging whether the project is in the best interests of the community irrespective of whether it is based on private or crown land resources but save as indicated above the Commonwealth does not seek to intervene in the State Government responsibility for environmental aspects of woodchip projects. The Commonwealth does not exercise control over the export of pulped wood. 
 We have just listened to 2 speeches which in most respects were not directly connected with the motion before the House but which covered, I would assume, the points which the Opposition wishes to raise in the motion of no confidence itself. The situation has arisen where notice has already been given through the Press of the Opposition's intention to take some action in this field. So the motion does not come as any surprise to this House. The position is that the Government views this matter apparently far more seriously than does the Opposition. I think it is quite obvious from the build-up that has been made and from the way in which substantive matter has been brought into the notice of motion which was moved today that the Opposition is using this motion solely for political purposes. Of course, this is entirely understandable, and perhaps the tone that was adopted by the seconder of the motion indicated that standard. 
Notice of the motion was given and after we had entered question time - not immediately but afterwards - the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders was moved. If, in normal circumstances, honourable members opposite had wished to bring the matter on today, as they have stated they wanted to do, they would not only have given notice of the motion but also would have moved for the suspension of the Standing Orders immediately. But they did not do that; they did not follow normal procedures. It is rather strange that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  stated that whenever censure motions or motions of no confidence have been moved in this House they have always been debated immediately. This is not so. On 6th February 1952 a motion of no confidence was introduced and it was debated the next day. This also happened on 30th October 1956, 9th March 1961, 2nd April 1963, 18th April 1963, 24th September 1964 and 15th March 1971. I mention this merely to refute what the honourable member for Lalor stated positively. Of course, in many other cases such motions were proceeded with immediately. The Government takes a most serious view of this motion. The motion covers a wide range of very important matters all of which should be most carefully considered. So that the debate on such important matters which warrant full consideration and attention can be dealt with, the Government is prepared to accept the notice that has been given and allow the debate on it to take priority over any other Government business tomorrow. In view of those circumstances the Government cannot accept this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
lt is a fact that the steel industry throughout the world has suffered from a minor recession and that this has been accentuated in some degree by the world monetary crisis, particularly as it involves the relationship between the United States and Japan. As a result the Japanese steel industry, in consonance with the industries in other countries throughout the world, has been revising the estimates of output that it previously had made. The last figures that the Japanese gave were significantly lower than the estimates that it had previously given for the period up to 1975. Not only has this revision affected the supply of iron ore, particularly from Australia; it has also had an effect on the supply of coal. In answer to a question by the honourable member recently I indicated that there had been a decline in exports of coal but that they had found a new level and that 1 thought that level would remain fairly constant for some time, and that we would expect the level to rise as soon as the steel industry throughout the world picked up, as we expect it will before very long. 
The position with regard to supplies is that we have been able to build up our stocks in Australia to meet all our commitments. Some adjustments have been made at various places where, due to industrial problems, there has been a slight slowing down in production. This has been the case particularly in the State of New South Wales although the situation has now recovered somewhat and we are able to meet al) requirements as they come forward. At present we have sufficient stocks to meet Japanese requirements for coal and I think that position will continue. 
From memory I think that the honourable member did raise this matter in correspondence. I know that it has been raised on a few occasions and that an investigation has been made in relation to it. The position is thai quite often when comparisons are made - I have noted this publicly - they are between the relatively standardised price for natural gas and the variation in the price in distant country areas for liquefied petroleum gas. The main variation is, of course, related to freight costs and handling charges. Liquefied peteoleum gas is a refinery by-product and is produced fairly cheaply at the refinery. The cost at the refinery is relatively cheap hut the further an area is from the refinery the higher is the price. 
This problem has been raised on a number of occasions because the price of liquefied petroleum gas in distant areas is quite different from the price in centres principally in the capital cities - where the main refineries are located. The matter has ben examined very carefully. There is no way in which this situation can be overcome. It would be extremely difficult to introduce an equalised pricing scheme for liquefied petroleum gas because of the low quantity that is now used throughout Australia. So, whilst up to the present an examination has been made, the problem is understood; it has been raised before by the honourable member and by other honourable members in this House. So far, (here has been no solution to the variation in price between the major capital city centres adjacent to refinery areas and the country centres, where freight and handling costs must be added to the price. However, in view of the fact that the honourable member has raised the matter again, I will certainly undertake to have another look at the situation. 
The final point that he raised in relation to the oil industry itself is a matter that, if it were raised in any other context, would be given consideration. At present, it has not been taken into account in any specified way, but there is a overall check kept on the position and I can assure the honourable member that this matter is being carefully watched. However, after we have studied the matter further regarding liquefied petroleum gas, I will let him have another reply. 
I  move: 
That the Bill  be  now  read a second time. 
On 12th November 1971 I introduced the Salaries Bill (No. 2) 1971. The substance of that Bill is included in this Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill. Honourable members will recall that the firstmentioned Bill, which has now been withdrawn, was necessary because of the particular legislative provisions existing for certain statutory office holders appointed pursuant to the provisions of the Australian Wool Commission Act, the Broadcasting and Television Act, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act and the Criminology Research Act. The existing provisions, which have been included in the parent Acts over the last 2 years, have the effect that, for the present, the remuneration for the statutory office holders involved is prescribed in regulations but  that  from the beginning of 1972 the remuneration is to be determined by the Parliament. It will be noted that provision is being made for prescription by regulation of remuneration for deputies of members of the Australian Wool Commission. The regulations which will be made pursuant to that provision will provide that a deputy member is to be paid $35 for attendance at a meeting of not less than 3 hours duration or $20 where a meeting is less than 3 hours. These are standard daily sitting fees paid to a large number of members of Commonwealth bodies. 
This Bil] will also provide for revision of salaries of certain statutory office holders. 
It  is customary for the salaries of full-time statutory office holders, where those salaries are less than those applying to Permanent Heads of Departments of State, to  he  reviewed by the Government subsequent to the application of increased salaries for Second Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. Such a review has been undertaken following the determination by the Public Service Arbitrator of new salaries for Second Division officers, which took effect from 4th November 1971. Accordingly this Bill provides new salaries involving comparable increases for certain of the statutory office holders shown in the First Schedule to the Bill, for which existing legislative provisions require determination of salaries by the Parliament. In the case of various other comparable statutory office holders approval has been given for increases of the same order to be applied, subject to compliance with the requirements of relevant legislation. The Bill provides that, as in the Commonwealth Public Service, the increase will apply from 4th November 1971, the operative date of the Arbitration Determinations. 
The salaries for the lay offices under th* Conciliation and Arbitration Act and offices of Deputy Public Service Arbitrator under the Public Service Arbitration Act have been reviewed separately in their own right, the existing salaries for these offices having been determined in June 1968. The Bill also provides for a date of effect of 4th November 1971 for these salaries. I have mentioned that these particular salaries have been reviewed independently, as in the past. The common date of effect for the 2 groups arises from the particular situation on this occasion when the 2 changes happen to occur concurrently. I have circulated an explanatory memorandum which sets out details in respect of each of the aspects of this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure onthis legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971 and the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Bill 1971 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Two concessions. 
(a) the concessions were the chemist shop and an Aboriginal crafts shop; 
the management of the chemist shop was based in Melbourne and the concessionaire found this created unexpected problems in managing the Sydney business. He also considered the location of his shop unsuitable due to its distance from the passenger Sow. He elected to surrender his lease and this was accepted by the Department and tenders were recently re-invited. The Aboriginal crafts shop had experienced serious trading and staffing difficulties since its introduction. Despite assistance from the Department by way of additional identification signs, shortened trading hours and reduced rental, it unfortunately continued to lose money. The Office of Aboriginal Affairs finally decided to surrender its lease. (c)Mr Wellington Lee, of Hawthorn, Victoria held the chemist concession, and the Aboriginal crafts shop was operated by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Percentage returns offered to the Department by tenders for concession rights are based on the tenderers' own business judgment of the turnover the business will achieve over the period of the concession. Departmental business boards carefully examine all tenders and research tenderers' backgrounds as far as possible to ensure that the party finally selected has the necessary experience and financial substance to operate the business efficiently. It is a matter for tenderers themselves to decide what percentage of turnover they can afford to pay the Department after personally estimating the turnover they expect to achieve. Under public tendering procedures, the 
Department exercises no influence on the business judgment of tenderers as to the percentage they should offer for business trading rights. 
Some complaints have been received about the prices of meals, drinks and other commodities  in the airport terminal but these are related to and are comparable with prices charged in like premises in the city. They would exceed those charged in some city premises of lesser standard than exists at the airport. The' average city business is not usually faced with the high capital costs of international standard appointments which are called for  in  airport concessions nor the high labour costs associated with servicing early and late aircraft movements  7  days per week. 
I understand the prices charged at some city discount houses are from time to time equivalent to or -less than those applying to some goods sold at the airport duty free shop. The latter's. prices, however, should be lower than normal city retail shops because of the absence of sales tax and, in most cases, duty. 
Not to the Department's knowledge.  (71  The Department has not done so. As  1  have mentioned the Department's officers examine, as far as possible, the background, experience and financial stability of tenderers before granting contracts for business concessions. 
Civil Aviation: Low-flying Light Aircraft  (Question No. '4686) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable  member's  question: 
Air' Navigation Regulation '133 provides that aircraft shall not fly at. a lower, height than 1,500 feet over any city, town, or populous area, or at a lower height that 500 feet over other areas, unless it is necessary to do so through stress of weather or other unavoidable cause. Provision is included for these requirements to be varied in special circumstances by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
Air Navigation Regulation 89 provides that an aircraft shall not land or take-off from any place other than a government or licensed aerodrome or a place authorised . by the DirectorGeneral as for use as an aerodrome. Air Navigation Regulation 85 provides that the DirectorGeneral, may, by specific' or general description, authorise the use of any place as an aerodrome, subject to suoh conditions as he may specify. A genera] authorisation 'for the use of landing grounds and water alighting areas is promulgated in the Aeronautical Information Publication. A number qf conditions are attached to the general authorisation. These relate to the minimum permissable dimensions of such areas and other physical requirements to ensure the safety of operations.It is also a requirement that the permission of the owner, occupier or authority controlling the area of land or water concerned be obtained, and that the use of the area shallnotinvolve flights at a height of less than 1,500 feet over any city, town or populous area. 
Instructions are already in existence to ensure that all regulations are strictly enforced. The Department has no knowledge of recent breaches of regulations in. the area having occurred but should information in this regard bc provided, an immediate investigation will be carried out. The prompt reporting of any future breaches of the regulations to the Regional Director of Civil Aviation, Queensland, will ensure that appropriate action is taken without delay. 
The Minister for Civil Avi ation  has  provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
When the Government reviewed the operations of Connair in 1965, it considered whether there were suitable alternatives to these operations for the provision of services in the Northern Territory and outback northern Australia. Such matters as are mentioned by the honourable member were considered at that time, and the Government also had before it a detailed report on Connair's operations prepared by an Interdepartmental Committee. 
As a result of this examination of the matter, the Government concluded that it was appropriate for Connair to continue its services and for the Commonwealth to provide a loan of$620,000 to meet the company's requirements for new equipment and development and to continue its annual subsidies to meet the losses incurred by Connair in providing the air services. Agreements covering these arrangements were entered into by the Commonwealth and Connair. These agreements do not expire until 1980. 
More recently, consideration has been given to proposals that Connair should expand its opera tions by acquiring large turbo-prop aircraft and taking over the F-27 services to northern Australia now provided by the major airlines. The conclusion reached was that these proposals would be a very costly venture and that they went beyond what is considered to be the true role of Connair, namely the provision of regular services to the remote outback areas in northern Australia where traffic is small and other means of transport are inadequate or not available. 
In the circumstances it is not considered that a special inquiry along the lines suggested by the honourable member is warranted. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Canada, Fiji, France, Germany, Greece (with effect from 1st March 1972), India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, Portugal (Timor), Singapore, South Africa, Thailand, United KingdomUnited States. 
France, Germany, Greece, Italy,Netherlands, United Kingdom, United States. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The car parking facilities at Kalgoorlie Airport were rearranged and expanded earlier this year and local reactions, since then, have been quite favourable. 
The further development of airport facilities for Kalgoorlie is under discussion. The Department is also consulting with both State and Local Government Authorities There are plans for a new terminal in the longer term and tentative plans to extend the existing terminal should air services revert to the higher frequencies of a few months back. 
Kalgoorlie is being considered as an international alternative to Perth. 
Cockburn Sound Naval Base: Effect on Environment  (Question No. 4588) 
As I indicated previously, the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association has made some submissions in relation to incentives for exploration both on-shore and off-shore, and this matter is at present under consideration by an interdepartmental committee that has been set up by the Government. I think I should make it clear that the APEA submissions are the second lot that have been made. We looked at them some months ago but we made it quite clear to the Association that this matter would be referred to this committee for consideration and report to the Government. At the same time the position in relation to incentives in a number of countries overseas differs from that in Australia. In other words different types of incentives are provided in some of the major producing countries in the world as compared with Australia. 1 think one of the greatest incentives we can have is the discovery of additional supplies and additional resources of liquid petroleum. Fairly recently there were announcements of indications of further deposits of gas and some indication of further minor liquid petroleum deposits, but the greatest incentive to the industry in Australia would be the discovery of a major liquid petroleum deposit either on-shore or off-shore in Australia. However the position in relation to other forms of incentives - the question of price, the question of incentives in relation to taxation and circles and other matters - is being considered by the committee at the present time and we expect that in the very near future a report will be submitted to the Government. 
 I approach this particular subject almost with a degree of reverence. As the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  will well recall, together with my colleague, the former Attorney-General, we had the job of conducting negotiations at great length with the States on this subject in various places. So I can assure honourable members that I have a great personal interest in this particular matter. Of course, with my own responsibility in relation to national development, I also have an interest in future mining legislation which I think ultimately will be essential for the control of off-shore mining operations on a far better and more uniform basis than it is at present. 
However, having said that,, and having listened to what I consider to be a very constructive debate, particularly the last 2 speakers, I assure the House that this matter has not been left unnoticed on the notice paper, apart from the fact that it has been raised in this House on a couple of occasions. It is only over recent weeks that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and myself have had quite lengthy discussions on a number of aspects in relation to this subject. There is also the other matter that was mentioned by my colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  that the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources has not only been considering matters relating to the mirror legislation on petroleum but also, in its interim report, indicated that in its final report it expected to be dealing with matters ranging far from that particular subject. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has also stated in this House and publicly that this matter will be raised in the joint meetings of the 
Government Parties and discussed there at some point of time before the policy on future action by the Government was finally considered. However, the advice that we have given to the Prime Minister recently is that we first of all should consider the implications arising from the report of the Senate Committee which, I understand, is to be submitted to the Senate tomorrow. 
The Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill has remained on the notice paper during this session and, as the Leader of the House responsible for arranging the order of business of the House, I will have to consider whether the Government wishes the Bill to be discussed during the autumn session. I cannot nod my head to my colleague the honourable member for Moreton, or give him an assurance as to when or how this Bill will be dealt with. All I can say is that the Bill is still on the notice paper. Only recently 3 senior Ministers have had fairly lengthy discussions in relation to it, and the Prime Minister has indicated that the matter will be discussed at a meeting of the joint Government Parties before a final policy decision is made. Also, 1 am certain that the questions arising out of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources should be considered by the Government before any final decision is made in this matter. In view of the present circumstances, and despite the fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  undoubtedly have raised this matter today with the best of possible motives, 1 feel that the Government cannot accept this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Whitlam'?)  be agreed to. 
-I appreciate the sentiments that have been expressed by the members of the Opposition who have spoken on this matter. Unfortunately, it is one of the problems in relation to procedure that it has to come forward in this way. The problem is that the suspension of Standing Orders means takingthe business of the House out of the hands of the Government. As honourable members know we have a big business list to complete today and it is essential to get on to that as quickly as possible. I suggest to the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in relation to his proposal that a select committee be appointed to report on the proposed draft criminal code for the Commonwealth Territories, that perhaps the best procedure to follow in this case would be to write to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and put this proposed forward. Although the AttorneyGeneral is in another place it is within his direct responsibility. It could be suggested that he put it to the Government for consideration because I know that members on boih sides of the House and in the other place have a very deep interest in this matter as it concerns not only the Australian Capital Territory but also the Commonwealth Territories generally. So perhaps I could leave that as a suggestion. 
-I am afraid I cannot give assurances in relation to this. Perhaps the honourable member could arrange it on the basis that a copy of the letter sent to the Attorney-General be sent to me.I will keep this in mind to see whether what be suggests can be arranged because the basis of this motion is that honourable members should have as much knowledge as possible on the subject before it is actually debated. Of course, it could be some time before it comes before the House, but if the honourable member writes to the Attorney-General on that basis and lets me have a copy of the letter I will give an assurance thatI will consider this matter when the legislation is coming forward. In view of the points the honourable member has made. I suggest that to save time there be no division on this matter because this would take away further time for consideration of the business which is now fairly urgent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth-State committees, of the type mentioned by the honourable member, on which officers of my Department serve are listed below: 
Advisory Committee to the Australian Minerals Council 
Standing Committee of the Australian Forestry Council 
Standing Committee of the Australian Water Resources Council 
Technical Committee on Underground Water of the Australian Water Resources Council 
Technical Committee on Water Quality of the Australian Water Resource-. Council 
Technical Committee on Surface Water of the Australian Water Resources Council 
Consultative Committee on Nuclear Energy 
Officials' Committee on Decentralisation 
National Mapping Council 
Technical Sub-Committee of the National Mapping Council 
The National Sirex Fund Committee 
The abovementioned Committees have among their members representatives from the Commonwealth and all States. There is also a small group of committees which broadly might be described as comparable to those listed above, and on which officers of my Department serve but the membership of which does not include representatives from all States. These committeesare listed below with an indication of the State representation: 
Snowy Mountains Council - New South Wales, Victoria 
Kimberley Research Station Policy Committee - Western Australia 
Kimberley Research Station Supervisory Committee - Western Australia 
North-West Planning and Co-ordinating Authority - Western Australia 
Ord Project Co-ordinating Committee - Western Australia 
I move: 
That this House agrees with the  Committe  in iti; findings and is of opinion that it would best consult its own dignity by talcing no further action in the matter.  1 would like to make it quite clear that this is a matter for the House itself and not a matter for consideration by the Government as such. I would like to pay a tribute to the Committee of Privileges for the painstaking work it has done not only in this case but in previous cases, and for the findings which have emerged in this case. However, the reason why the motion has been moved is that a number of individual members in the House have indicated that because the matter was not of overriding importance the House should have recourse to its own dignity and should not pursue any further action, though indicating that a breach of privilege has been committed. 1 put this recommendation before the House as a private member and noi on behalf of the Government. I would like to refer to the fact that a similar recommendation was made by the Committee of Privileges in a report which was submit ted on 1st November 1951. In that case it was acknowledged that there had been a breach of privilege but the wording of the recommendation at that time was that the House take no punitive action against the writer and that the House would best serve its own dignity by taking no further action. So there is a precedent for this proposal. 
There is one other matter that I wish to clear up. It is the method of raising matters of privilege in this chamber. I do so because there is a small query as to a response by the Leader of the House indicating that a matter is accepted as one of privilege and that it should be referred to the Committee of Privileges. The position is that all 7 cases that have been raised in this House since 1954 have been dealt with immediately and referred immediately to the Committee. But before the matter is raised in the House in the form of a motion by a member, he will first of all consult the Clerks of the House to ensure that the wording of the motion is correct. By doing so. he establishes himself that there is a prima facie case of privilege to be considered. This procedure was again followed in this case by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  He had a correctly worded motion prepared. It was a prima facie case of privilege and as Leader of the House I indicated merely as a member of it - of course, the Government is in charge of the business of the House - that the motion would be accepted. I should like to make it quite clear that when I did so I carried out the normal tradition in all the 7 cases. There should not. be a query in relation to it. 
The honourable member for Sydney had a perfect right to raise the matter. The form in which he raised it was correct and there was a prima facie case to be considered by the Committee. Therefore, the House was quite right in accepting his motion at that time and so approving its submission to the Committee. I thought it essential to ensure that that point, which has been raised outside the chamber, was cleared up. But 1 do not want to take up the time of the House in relation to this matter As I say, the motion has been proposed because a number of members of the House have indicated that they felt this would be a better approach. It is that the House itself agrees with the Committee in its findings as occurred back in November 1951 when it was felt that the House could best consult its own dignity by taking no further action in the matter. So I have proposed this motion. As I have indicated, it is a matter for the House to decide and I leave the motion for ils consideration. 
I am delighted that the Leader of the Opposition has given me the opportunity to refer to a matter which is of great importance. I am pleased to see his rather new found interest in this matter. I acknowledge the fact that my Department and I spent a considerable amount of time last year preparing the basis of a document for consideration by the Government in relation to the development of our natural resources. In its early stages this document became public knowledge although at that stage it was nota public document. The matter has been before Cabinet for some considerable time and has gone through the early stages of its first consideration by Cabinet. Naturally the consideration of development on this scale, affecting as it does policy matters involving quite a number of departments, is a long and complicated process. Many of the matters which were raised when the subject was first being considered have now been dealt with and public announcements have been made. However, there are still quite a number of matters in the original document that have yet to be considered. The position at the present time is that an interdepartmental committee is considering a number of them. When it has finally considered these points and make recommendations to me, the matter will again be considered by the Government. But I. do appreciate, as I say, the new found interest of the Opposition in this very important matter. 
The position at the present time in the Palm Valley-Mereenie area is that the exploration and proving work is continuing. It will take some considerable time to prove the reserves of gas and liquid crude there. In the meantime some discussions have been held and are still continuing between officers of my Department and the companies concerned. The situation is a fairly, complex one because it involves not . only the actual development of the Held itself but also the situation whereby certain areas are allocated . to different marketers in relation to the subsidy provided by the Commonwealth. So careful consideration has to be given to the allocation of certain areas. But the negotiations in relation to the possible development of a small refinery in Alice Springs are continuing. 1. expect that it will be some little time before they will be finalised and it will also be some little time before the extent of the reserves at Mereenie are finally proven. However, as soon as more definite information is available. I will make sure that the honourable member has it immediately. 
The honourable member's interest in this matter is made evident not only by his question today but also by the fact that he has written to me recently on a couple of occasions.  1  can assure honourable members that I agree with him that this is a very important matter. The beef roads programme has provided a very good service in many areas in the northern parts of Australia. The negotiations in relation to this are handled by the Northern Division of my Department. 
The present programme continues under the existing plan up to  1974.  At this point of time I cannot give an assurance in regard to a further plan. But I can give the assurance that some planning is being done in consultation with the States and the industries concerned. A lot of work is being done to see what further programmes would be required to service this industry. Of course, as the honourable member knows, subsidiary benefits spill over into other industries such as tourism and the programme provides a service to the community generally. We are well aware of the honourable member's interest in the matter. I can assure him that the point he has raised will be given full consideration. 
I do not think it is quite correct to express the position as the honourable member did and to say the Australia and New Zealand had been standing out against overseas charter operators coming to Australia and New Zealand. Of course, there has been a considerable amount of charter operations, both by our own international carrier and by other international carriers. But Australia has adhered very firmly in her own interests and in the interests of international aviation to the conditions of the International Air Transport Association. However, as honourable members know, there has been some change in Australia in relation to a subsidiary company being set up under Qantas Airways. Ltd specifically for charter operations, In addition, I know what my colleague in another place is giving consideration to the position of the entry of additional charter flights to Australia by other international operators. However, I am not completely in the picture as to the present position, so I will draw the attention of my colleague in another place the question that has been asked and see that a suitable answer is furnished. 
As has been stated, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  set up a special committee of Cabinet and, assisted by the Minister for the Enrivonment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  it investigated a number of matters relating to this subject. It is felt that perhaps the best way to deal with the situation today is to provide a statement to the House of a survey which had been provided to the committee of Ministers giving the historical background of the Interim Council for the national film and television training school and related matters. I hope this will be accepted as a factual interpretation of the information that is available and that has been provided to the committee of Ministers. 
The Australian Council for the Arts appointed a Film Committee in November 1968 to examine the future of the film industry. It made 4 recommendations: Firstly, that a policy of protection for the film industry was essential, and recommended that the Tariff Board look into the matter fully; secondly, the establishment of a national film and television training school; thirdly, the establishment of an Australian film and television corporation; and fourthly, the establishment of an experimental film and television fund. This report went to the then Prime Minister in May 1969. In a Press statement in August of that year, the then Prime Minister announced that the Government had adopted the second, third and fourth recommendations. According to this earlier report, the proposal for a film school arose from a national conference organised by the United Nations Education, Science and Cultural Organisation. The only estimate of costs that was available at that time was a report to the British Government suggesting that the cost of technical facilities, excluding buildings, would be of the order of $400,000 and the annual running cost would be $200,000. It was on the basis of this report that the Prime Minister established the Interim Council for the film school. 
The final paragraph of the report at that time read: 
The first function of the Interim Council will be to confer with appropriate representatives of the educational and film fields and to recommend to the Government an appropriate location for the School. The Council will then consider the matters necessary to bring the School up tothe point of an actual operation. 
Those honourable members who have read the first report of the Interim Council will see that the Council took this paragraph as its first term of reference. The second term of reference was taken from the previous Prime Minister's statement in his speech at the presentation of the Australian Film Institute Awards on 2nd December 1969. In the course of this speech the then Prime Minister raised the question as to whether the national film and television training school should be part of a university or whether it should be associated with other institutions. He said: 
Should it, as another alternative,and perhaps the best of the lot, should it be a part of some entirely new - not college of education, not university - some entirely new centre where not only the national film and television school sets up for its purposes, but where the National Institute of Dramatic Art might perhaps set up for its purposes instead of in the University of New South Wales, where possibly the School of Opera or Ballet might also set up for its purposes, and where all these art forms which have so much in common could perhaps cross-fertilise each other . . . 
There is no doubt of the importance these proposals had for the Interim Council. For, in its covering letter of 5th November 1970 forwarding the first report of the Interim Council, the  Chairman  said: 
You will see that the Interim Council has accepted the suggestion you made in your speech at  the  presentation  of the  Australian Film Institute Awards  last year, that the  Film  and  Television School  be part of a  larger Centre embracing a number  of  Schools  of  associated studies. 
The Interim Council has forwarded 2 reports to the Government - the first in November 1970 and the second in March, 1971. The first report recommends, inter alia: 
That the School be established as a College of Advanced Education with its own Governing Council . . . 
That the Film and Television School be regarded as the first major School of a Centre  to be  established in a group of associated studies. 
From this  it  will be seen that the national film and television school should have the status of a college of advanced education. In paragraph 12.3, the report goes on to say: 'Past experience in establishing other Colleges of Advanced Education indicates that some 60 acres may well be required.' Taken in conjunction, these 2 statements would seem to indicate that 60 acres was a requirement for a national film and television training school. However, it is necessary also to take into consideration paragraph 1 1.4, which says: 
The Interim Council realises that it is not a viable proposition  to  set up the National Film and Television School on its own, with a student body of only limited numbers. In economic terms, this would be unsound . . . 
And again, in paragraph l l.S it says: 
Therefore, the idea suggested by die Prime Minister of a larger Centre, in which the independent Film and Television School would share the common facilities and services with other similarly oriented Schools, is supported by the Interim Council. 
These were the major recommendations in the 2 reports of the Interim Council, the second of which was received by the Government on 25th March 1971. 
It will be noticed that there is no reference to the estimate of the cost of these proposals in either of the two Reports. The first time that the costs of these proposals were examined was on 22nd June, when the Minister for the Environment met the  Chairman  of the Interim Council in Sydney. For this meeting, the  Chairman  had asked the executive officer to prepare some draft estimates of costs. This was the first time, apparently, on which the Council had made any attempt to look at the financial implications of their reports, for the  Chairman  has said: T stressed at the same time that they had not yet been considered by the Council'. It was at this meeting that the Minister suggested that the Council should prepare for his consideration a less ambitious programme involving the recommendation to proceed immediately with the least expensive steps and approach the more costly steps over a period of time. It was at this interview that the first mention of an 8-acre site occurred. Nowhere in the first or second reports can there be found any reference to 8 acres. 
Following these discussions, the  Chairman  submitted draft estimates of costs to the Interim Council and then forwarded them to the Minister on 30th June. An examination of these estimates shows that the cost of land for 60 acres would be $2.4m and for 8 acres $350,000; the cost of buildings $1,750,000; capital costs (excluding the cost of land and buildings) $1,69 1,000; and running costs for the first 5 years $1,807,000. The total costs, based on the 60 acre site, were of the order of S7.6m based on a 5-year period, lt will be seen from this report that the Minister had endeavoured to ask the Council to recommend a less ambitious programme. The Government was facing a period of financial stringency and all recommendations for increased Government expenditure were being examined carefully. However, in spile of these discussions, the  Chairman  of the Council wrote on 28th July 1971, saying: 
The Council also is anxious to make perfectly clear that its recommendation on the purchase of the land, now available in a non-intensive subdivision, is based on the belief that the site should nol be confined to the area needed solely for a Film and Television School. Other Schools in associated studies are under active consideration, and their eventual close association and physical location alongside the Film School is considered of great importance to its long-term success. The opportunity to acquire the full site so advantageously will never re-occur. 
From this letter, it is clear that the Interim Council's proposals involved the purchase of a 60 acre site, together with the other recommendations contained in the estimates of costs referred to above. This was the basis of the statement that the Minister made on this matter in the House on 8th September. It was the first occasion on which the matter had been raised in the House, and, in the course of his statement, the Minister said: 
Whilst the Council's enthusiasm for the project is fully apparent, the continuing economic stringencies and the substantial cost, which is estimated to be over $7m during the first S years, have led to consideration of their proposals being deferred for 12 months. 
It is clear from the documents that have been tabled that, if the Government had endorsed  the  reports and proposals of the Council, its recommendations would have involved the Government in an expenditure of over $7. 6m over the next 5 years. These recommendations were endorsed by the  Chairman  of the Interim Council as recently as 25th October 1971, for in his message at that time be said:   . . lt is the continued view of the Interim Council that the School would succeed best, and some say only succeed, if it were part of a consortium of Schools. The School should not exist in isolation but should be part of a Centre of Schools of related activities. In other words, the Interim Council has never recommended the Film School being established on  8  acres, although this is the area of land suggested if the School were established in isolation. 
However, the recommendation of the Council always has been, and remains, that the best interests of the School would be to establish it in conjunction with other Schools in related subjects, upon when basis  the  recommendation was made for the purchase now, at an advantageous price, of the full area of sixty acres. . . . 
So far I have dealt with the details of costs of the proposals of the Interim Council. I now turn to examine briefly the estimate of the number of graduates who should be trained at the film school for employment in the industry in Australia. There is no indication in the original report of the film committee that there had been consultation with the industry in Australia or any estimate of the likely requirements of graduates, lt is also clear from the first report of the Interim Council that it did not consider itself able to estimate the requirement for graduates. In paragraph 9.3 it states: 
Because of the difficulties involved in the Council itself making a thorough analysis of the industrial opportunities, as distinct from those in education, P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd have been engaged to conduct a survey of employment prospects in the film and television industry. 
In fact, at this stage the Interim Council had put in a report recommending the establishment of a film and television school and the purchase of land before it obtained any estimate of the required number of people to be trained in the school. The consultants, P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd, then produced a report in which they say categorically 'the School should plan for an initial output to the industry of a maximum of 15 graduates per year'. The 15 graduates would be the total requirement of the following categories: producer-director, editor, script writer, film cameraman, and art director. 
The Interim Council was now in the position of having suggested a large complex of schools including the film school only to find that the experts concluded that the immediate need is for only 15 graduates per year, lt was at this stage, that the Council proceeded to examine and evaluate the conclusions of the report. The dialogue that ensued is reported in the attachment to the letter that the  Chairman  of the Council sent to the Minister on 25th October and which was tabled by the Minister on 10th November. 
Examination of this discussion shows that a number of estimates were made as to the requirements of graduates - some relating to a period 20 years hence - yet there is still only one concrete recommendation available, and that is the conclusion of P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd. 
At this stage, the matters that have been considered relate to the means by which the Interim Council was established and the reports that the Council has made up to this moment. However, it is now necessary to examine the future of this important industry. It will be seen that there are a number of questions to which complete answers have not yet been given. The first refers to the relationship of the proposed film and television school to the film and television industry as a whole, lt is important that every effort be made to ensure that the film and television industry is prepared to co-operate with the proposed film and television training school so as to ensure that the graduates emerging from the school would be employed, especially as at present there is some degree of unemployment in the industry in Australia. In order to ensure this co-operation between the industry and the Interim Council of the Film and Television School, the Government has agreed to the appointment to the Interim Council of  Mr Hector 
Crawford and  Mr Len  Maugher, 2 experienced men recommended to the Government by the Interim Council. The terms of reference for the Interim Council have also been widened. They have been asked to review the relationship of the training already undertaken by the ABC, the commercial television organisations and the film industry to the programme of the proposed school. The Council will now seek the co-operation of those interested in connection with this review, and, as soon as the Government receives its report, it will consider the most appropriate way in which it might act to assist the industry in this important area. 
The next question relates to the proposal for a multi-school centre, which some members of the Council refer to as a polytechnic of associate disciplines. It has been suggested that this polytechnic could include the Australian Ballet School, the Australian Opera School, the National Institute of Dramatic Art, a post-graduate school of industrial design, a post-graduate Australian conservatorium, and a school of communications. Consideration is being given to asking the Australian Council for the Arts to examine these proposals in greater detail. 
Finally, however, it is necessary to return to the first report of the Film Committee of the Australian Council for the Arts, and to the recommendation made at that time. This was that a policy of protection for the Australian film industry in some form would seem essential in the long-term, and the Committee recommended that the Tariff Board, or some specially constituted body, look into this matter for it. The Prime Minister has announced that this recommendation is now to be implemented. (Extension of time granted). I thank the House. Recent reports on the Australian film and television industry indicate that there is probably no other country in which English is the common tongue which is so poorly protected against American and British imports of film as is Australia. Within these conditions of unequal opportunity and what can, from many points of view, be called unequal competition, it is hardly surprising that Australia has had such trouble in creating a viable communications industry of international quality. Foreign television producers can afford to sell their programmes at 'dump' prices to 
Australian stations, having spent perhaps 10 times on a programme what an Australian company could afford to spend, and selling it for about a quarter of what it would cost to make in Australia, lt can be seen that many people believe that this is the first problem that needs to be solved. Until a solution has been found, the Australian film and television industry will not expand. When a solution has been found, expansion will take place. The decision of the Government to refer the industry to the Tariff Board shows that it now sees the whole problem, and that it is determined to assist the industry to expand and to relate all the proposals so that they fit in to this objective. 
(9.391  -  Dealing with the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders, whilst I appreciate the position which has been explained by the 2 members of the Opposition who have moved and seconded the motion. I should like to point out to the House that, first of all, &lt;his was a ministerial statement. The practice of the House has been that when a ministerial statement is to be made an arrangement is entered into to allow the Opposition an opportunity to respond. The normal practice has been for a copy of the statement to be provided within a period of 2 hours before the debate is to commence so that the opportunity is given to the Opposition to have someone respond on behalf of it immediately the statement is presented. After the response has been made, the practice has been for the debate to be adjourned. The same procedures were followed on this occasion as have been followed with respect to every other ministerial statement that has been made. This is the normal procedure. 1 am sure that it is fully understood by members of the Opposition. 
I know that this is an important subject. I know that it is a subject on which there is great anxiety by some honourable members who believe that we should proceed to clear it up as quickly as possible. In view of the circumstances, I think that it would be desirable for a vote to be taken on the issue. I suggest that perhaps the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders might be cleared and that the House should proceed back to the substantive statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sincalir)  and the response which was made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  As has been requested by the 2 members of the Opposition who have spoken to this motion, we should then proceed to take the vote that they have sought on this matter. I suggest that, as soon as we clear the matter of the suspension of Standing Orders, we should proceed to the other matter immediately. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  the debate on this matter, in a variety of forms, has continued for quite some time despite the fact thai it was a ministerial statement to which there was a response by the honourable member for Dawson. The matter has arisen because 2 members of the Opposition asked specifically for a vote on this mailer l before the Chair. 
In order that this matter may be resolved, as it is quite obvious that the Opposition wishes to vote on the subject, I suggest that the vote be taken on the original motion. 
I should like to add my tribute and my thanks to  Mr Turner.  He has brought to his office all the great qualities that one expects of it - complete integrity, complete capacity in his job and complete impartiality. There would not be a member of this chamber who is not indebted to him and I am sure that I speak for all present when I say 'Thank you very much indeed for your work. You have contributed great service to the Parliament and added much to the history of this country'.  Mr Turner's  career has indeed been a magnificent one, reaching back to his appointment as an officer of the House of Representatives 47 years ago and, finally, recognised by  Her  Majesty the Queen.  Mr Turner  retires tomorrow. He leaves a service that he has worked for since he was 18 except for 4 years during the war. He can look back on a great career ranging through various offices in the House. He can also look back on his work in revising the Standing Orders, in the Inter-Parliamentary Union conferences, Commonwealth Parliamentary Association meetings and conferences of presiding officers and clerks. It has been a magnificent career forged in the only place where the essential specialised knowledge can be gained - that is, the Parliament itself. Add to this a personal good humour and an innate friendliness and we have Alan Turner the professional and Alan Turner the man. I can assure  Mr Turner  that each and every honourable member of this House has the greatest admiration for him. We have a great appreciation of the 12 years valuable service he has rendered to this Parliament and we express the hope that he and  Mrs Turner  will be long spared to enjoy the happiness that their retirement will bring. 
I move: 
That the  Senate's  amendments be agreed to. 
The Government takes this action to ensure that the salaries of those statutory officers which are included in the Bill and which would terminate at a specified time unless this Bill is passed will continue. The Government accepts the amendments on the basis of ensuring that these statutory offices covered by the Bill will continue. The question of the flow-on following the recent award by the Public Service Arbitrator is a matter that will be taken into account by the Government. 
As the hour is late I will be very brief, as usual. I congratulate  Mr Norm  Parkes, who will be taking over as  Clerk  of the House. Once again this Parliament is to receive the benefit of a lifetime of training in the Parliament itself. Also I would like to say a personal 'thank you' to the Parliamentary Liaison Officer,  Mr George  Brownbill, who is just completing a most efficient term of office, and to welcome his successor,  Mr Giff  Jones, who I am sure will continue those harmonious relationships that make for the smooth running and functioning of the House. I should like also to thank you,  Mr Speaker,  the  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees and all those who assist you in those various capacities. I should like to thank the Whips and the Hansard staff - in fact all the parliamentary staff whether they be in this chamber or in the dining room or on the transport side: all those who during the year help to make life bearable and who assist in the work that goes on here. 
I should like also to thank the  Deputy  Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  who has been assisting with the work in this field. But I must say a special 'thank you', first of all, to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for his co-operation, but perhaps more especially to my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who has worked so closely with me and in such a very harmonious way throughout what I think was a fairly difficult time. I feel that we should remember also the members of the Press who look down on us most of the time but who, on occasions such as this, we remember most kindly. I believe that we can look back on a session productive of legislation and keen debate, and it is my hope that the festive season will bring happiness and contentment to all members and to their families. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. However, representations have been made to Eximbank seeking the omission of this covenant from future agreements for aircraft borrowings. 
No. The covenant precludes the aircraft from being used principally in certain countries but does not prevent Qantas from flying these aircraft into 01 out of any country in the world. 
Yes. However, in the light of the response to question (2), the term 'flight embargo' is clearly not appropriate in this context. 
The countries defined in section 620 (f) of the Foreign Assistance Act 1961 of the United States are as follows: 
Peoples Republic of Albania, 
Peoples Republic of Bulgaria, 
Peoples Republic of China, . 
Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, 
German Democratic Republic (East Germany), 
Estonia, 
Hungarian Peoples Republic, 
Latvia, 
Lithuania, 
North Korean Peoples Republic, North Vietnam, 
Outer Mongolia - Mongolian Peoples Republic, Polish Peoples Republic, Rumanian Peoples Republic, Tibet, 
Federal Peoples Republic of Yugoslavia, Cuba, and 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (including its captive constituent Republics). 
According to the latest available published information, Pan American Airways is the only United States airline currently operating scheduled airline services to and from any of the countries defined in paragraph (4) above. Countries defined in paragraph (4) above to and from which Pan American Airways currently operates services are as follows: 
Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, 
Rumanian Peoples Republic, 
Polish People's Republic, 
Federal Peoples Republic of Yugoslavia, and 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
According to the latest available published information, airlines (other than United States airlines) operating scheduled airline services to and from countries defined in paragraph (4) above using United States manufactured aircraft, and the countries to and from which each airline operates, are as follows: 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. At 2134:36 hours VH-EWJ was cleared to line-up behind the departing Boeing 727 aircraft, VH-TJA. At that time the aerodrome controller anticipated that there would bc sufficient time between the landing of the Canadian DC8-63 aircraft, CF-CPQ, and that of the succeeding arriving aircraft, a TAA DC9 aircraft VH-TJN, to permit him to clear both VH-TJA and VH-EW.1 for their respective take-offs. Subsequently the aerodrome controller discerned, as a result of the slow movement of CF-CPQ on the runway after landing, that there would not be sufficient time for both of the departing aircraft to safely completed their take-offs prior to the landing of VH-TJN. Thus, at 2135 : 54 hours the aerodrome controller cancelled the line-up clearance previously issued to VH-EWJ and instructed it to remain in ils position on the taxiway leading to the threshold of Runway 16. 
The aircraft, VH-EWJ, received a further clearance to line-up and hold position on Runway 16 al 2145:45 hours. At 2146:06 hours this aircraft was cleared for take-off on Runway 16. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Financial Directive to the Board of Directors of Qantas Airways Limited is currently being revised in the light of changed circumstances and to incorporate a number of directions  which have been  issued to the Board by  letter  in recent years. 
The revised document will be similar in substance to the present Directive, but will more adequately reflect the up-to-date guidelines and requirements which the Government wishes the Board to observe in its conduct of the affairs nf Qantas. When the new Directive is completed and approved, consideration will be given to tabling it in the Parliamentary Library. 
 -The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
3rd July 1963. 
17th August 1971. 
No. As soon as possible after the present detailed consideration of all relevant aspects has been completed. 
Because it was not an appropriate time to reach a definite attitude whether or noi competitive airline services should be introduced between Perth and Darwin. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: . 
Yes. 
On pages 32 and 33 and again on page 35 of the tabled report on the investigation of this accident, the procedures which the Air' Safety Investigation Branch, believe should have been followed by the flight crew of VH-TJA to avoid this collision are described. The essence nf these procedures is set down in conclusions Nos 7 and 8 on page 36 of the report. The relevant portions of these conclusions are: 7. The flight crew of VH-TJA state that, at the commencement of their take-off, they did not observe CF-CPQ on the runway as an obstruction. Nevertheless, CF-CPQ was observed at a time when the take-off could have been abandoned with safety. The pilot in-command of VH-TJA elected to continue the take-off and attempted to overfly the obstructing aircraft. 
Although the obstructing aircraft could have been cleared quite safely by the adoption of a steeper initial climb angle the .pilotincommand of VH-TJA adhered to the normal takeoff technique and the underside of his aircraft came into collision with the tailfin of CF-CPQ 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The final paragraph of section 2.1 on page 22 of the Accident Investigation Report described the basic performance calculations which led the Air Safety investigation Branch to conclude that the take-off could have been safely abandoned at least from the point where it has been established that the pilot-in-command of VH-TJA has already recognised the existence of an obstruction on the runway using the data produced under the supervision of the Federal Aviation Administration in the U.S.A. by the aircraft manufacture forther purpose of proving its performance capacity for certification purposes it has been calculated that, from the point on the runway where the Captain of VH- TJ A said 'How far ahead is he' the aircraft could have been brought it a halt at a point some 2,140 feet short of the position on the runway of the nose of CF-CPQ at the time of the collision. This calculation adopts reaction delays proposed by the manufacturer and accepted by F.A.A. as being valid for airline pilots. It also makes due allowance for the conditions of gross weight, air temperature, runway slope and headwind component experienced by VH-TJA on the night of this take-off. Nevertheless, at the time this type of aircraft received its certificate of approval, there was no F.A.A. requirements for evaluation of stopping distance on wet runways and so there is no basic data upon which an entirely reliable allowance for extension of the stopping distance under wet runway conditions could be made. Performance data under wet runway conditions is available however, in respect of the Boeing 727-200 series aircraft recently certificated in the' U.S.A. and for which our domestic airlines are currently seeking Government approval to introduce into this country towards the end of 1972. This data has been studied and. so far as the stopping performance of a Boeing 727-200 series aircraft can be considered relevant to the ability of VH-TJA to stop, if indicates that the extension of stopping distance under wet runway conditions would have been of the order of 1,250 ft. Thus it can be said with confidence that the calculation that the aircraft could have been stopped 2,140 ft short of the obstructing aircraft under dry runway conditions, contains more than an adequate margin to account for any extension of the stopping distance under wet runway conditions. These are the principal grounds on which it was concluded that the take-off could have been safely abandoned. 
Variation: Cockpit Audio Recorders  (Question No. 4861)  Mr Berinson  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When were cockpit audio recorders first installed in Australian airline aircraft. 
Is it a fact that the Australian Federation of Air Pilots insisted and the Department of Civil Aviation agreed that the information they contained should not be used in the investigation of air safety incidents or of any accident where the flight crew survived (Department of Civil Aviation Special Investigation Report, Page 12). 
If so. would this restriction apply when the flight crew survived but one or more passengers did nol. 
Can he say which countries require cockpit audio recorders to be installed in passenger aircraft and of these, which permit the restriction on use referred to in the Special Investigation Report. 
Has consideration been given to legislative action to remove this limitation. If so, what is the Government's attitude in the matter. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer  to  the honourable member's question: 
Australia was the first country to specify  a  requirement for cockpit audio recorders and recorders were firs; installed in 1964. 
An agreement was made with the Federation so that the early introduction of this valuable safety aid would not be delayed. The agreement provided that in the event of an accident, the recording would be available to the investigation if: . 
any flight crew member is killed or is injured to the extent that his recollection of events might be impaired; 
it is indicated that there is an intention to convene a Board of Accident Inquiry; 
a crew member requests an analysis of the record lo resolve an apparent connection of other evidence; 
the Air Safety Investigation Branch requests and the flight crew and Federation agree that analysis of the record should be made in circumstances other than the foregoing. 
Yes, except under the circumstances described in (b), (c) or (d) of the the answer to question 2. 
The United States of America and Canada are the only other countries known to have published requirements for the carriage of audio recorders but similiar legislation is under consideration in the United Kingdom. In the United States the recording is available to the investigating authority in the circumstances of any notifiable accident or incident but the range of notifiable incidents is less than under Australian legislation, lt is understood that, in Canada, the recording is available to the investigating authority in the circumstances of a notifiable accident and the operator is required to provide the investigating authority with pertinent evidence from the recording in the circumstances of some incidents. The United Kingdom intentions are not known at this time. The United States legislation also specifically precludes use of the audio recording in any civil penalty or certificate proceedings initiated by the Federal Aviation Administration against a crew member and limits publication of recorded data to that determined 'to be pertinent and relevant to the accident.' It was indicated to the Australian Federation that similar principles would be observed in Australia in the event of access to recordings being otherwise unrestricted. 
lt can be argued that cockpit audio recorders involve, in some measure, considerations such as invasion of privacy and, for these reasons, the Federation was concerned that, in matters such as litigation, their members were exposed beyond the extent of exposure of other members of the community. The Department had some sympathy for the Federation's views but it was hoped that time would demonstrate that the safety advantage of the equipment far outweighed any other considerations. lt is believed that experience, particularly in the United Stales of America, has provided this demonstration and has also shown that far more often than not, the audio recording works to the advantage of flight crew. In the light of this experience it is the intention of the Government to re-open this subject with a view to development of appropriate legislation to remove the present limitations while including some provisions which would give recognition to the unusual nature of this equipment. 
Air Agreements with United States (Question No. 4759) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
President Nixon was declaring United States policy as such on charter services, lt is, therefore, not a question of any adjustment by Australia to it. When appropriate it is a matter for negotiation and reconciliation of the views of each Government as to the conditions, such as pricing and volume, under which charter Mights may be operated. Australian policy has for some time recognised the increasing importance of charter services as a component of international air transportation. Qantas earned over S27m from charter operations in its last financial year. The crucial problem for all Governments, of course, is to develop a proper relationship between scheduled and non-scheduled services so that the stability of the former and therefore, in essence, their availability are not prejudiced. 
Regarding methods to resolve the situation as between Governments there has been no acceptance as yet of the United States view that comprehensive bilateral agreements comparable to those regulating scheduled services should be immediately negotiated. These agreements may be achieved in the future but for the moment Governments, including Australia, have been proceeding on the basis of ad hoc arrangements renewable from time to time in the light of experience and including certain basic conditions. This method is, in fact, being adopted in relation to our recently achieved understanding with the United States authorities. The aim to to stimulate additional tourist travel between Australia and the United States through agreement on the conditions tinder which a certain number of charter flights can be operated between the 2 countries by such airlines as the United States and Australian Governments approve as carriers to operate them. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
lt is possible that Fitzroy Crossing could be upgraded to meet the requirements of Fokker Fellowship aircraft but a final assessment could only be made after a most detailed survey and engineering study. It would cost several hundred thousand dollars to so upgrade Fitzroy Crossing and within the current and foreseeable pattern of Fokker Fellowship operations in that area thai expenditure of public funds would not be justified in the light of other aerodromes which are available for this role. 
No estimate has been made of the cost. 
There is no proposal to carry out that work. 
Over-award Payments (Question No. 3551) 
This matter was raised by the honourable member only recently when I had the opportunity and great pleasure of visiting his electorate in response to an invitation he extended to me in the House. Letters have been sent by the Prime Minister to the Premiers of the 3 States concerned indicating that the Commonwealth is prepared to proceed in accordance with the original agreement which was approved by the House. At the moment we are awaiting a response from the Premiers to those letters. The Prime Minister has indicated to me that some replies have been received by him. When they have been processed by him they will be sent on to me for attention. I give an assurance to the honourable member that after that action has been taken the matter will be proceeded with as quickly as possible. I also mention that in the River Murray Commission which has a responsibility for organising and planning, much work has been done already and at the present time we in the Commission must wait for the governments concerned to make proclamations under the various Acts. As soon as that has been done, we will be able to proceed with the calling and examination of tenders and the subsequent letting of a contract. 
We have just listened to an extraordinary example of what can happen by the misuse of Standing Orders. This debate is on a motion moved by the Opposition. Two speakers on the Opposition side have risen with the expressed intention under the Standing Orders they can do it of preventing Government members from having the opportunity, within the limited time available, to express their views. As there are only a few moments left and we would like our remaining Government speaker to have the opportunity of speaking, I ask the Opposition whether it would allow the remaining Government speaker to proceed. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Clyde Cameron's)  be agreed to. 
The answer to the honour able member's question  is  as follows: 
The Commonwealth does  not  make any direct subsidy or bounty payment to the aluminium industry. 
The programme of the Bureau of Mineral Resources does  not  include active exploration  for  specific minerals. Many minerals arc assessed during the course of a field survey, the primary aim of which is to obtain basic geological and geophysical data. The Bureau's  work  has 'ed to the discovery of major mineral fields including bauxite at Gove in the Northern Territory. It is not possible to dissect  out  and estimate what part of the costs of the explora  tion  and 0! her services of the Bureau should be assessed against the aluminium industry. 
The Commonwealth has made no payments to the States or to statutory authorities specifically to cover  the net  loss to Stales  from  providing infrasructure  for  the aluminium industry. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information requested by the honourable member will nol be available until an examination at present being made in the Bureau of Mineral Resources of my Department has been completed. The information will be forwarded to the honourable member when it becomes available. 
and (4) Based on published information the following is the breakdown in equity in each of the producing fields as at 22nd November 1971: &lt;5) Again based on published information, at the end of November 1971 the Australian equity in fields with potential commercial reserves but not in production was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount which has been obtained by the Government of the United States of America from oil lease auctions is: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Meetings were held on the following dates - 1st December 1970 30th March 1971 20th July 1971 19th October 1971 7th December 1971. All meetings were held in Canberra. 
The honourable member is in effect seeking a recital in detail of substantially all of the business of the 5 meetings listed above, and 1 am not in a position to provide such information. 
The charter of the Commission is being extended in terms of the Amending Agreement approved by the Commonwealth Parliament last year. I might add that in relation to floods, in the operation of the works under its control, the River Murray Commission endeavours to provide mitigation to the extent compatible with its primary responsibility of providing water supplies for the thousands of irrigators, and the towns and industries which are dependent on the River Murray system. 
With regard to pollution, the Amending Agreement includes additional provision for the mitigation of salinity through the release of dilution flows under specified conditions. 
There are no amendments which the Commonwealth has requested that have been rejected or are still being considered by the other parties. I am not in a position to provide information on any requests that might have been made by other parties to the Agreement. 
The Commission has not sought any amendments in the last 3 years, other than those recently accepted by the Parliaments of the Contracting Governments. 
The answer to the honourable member s question is as follows: 
The total sum paid by the Commonwealth, to the end of October 1971, in respect of operation'; approved under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Acts is S 109.565,996. No incentives in the form of subsidy are offered for the exploration for any mineral other than petroleum. 
and (3) The answers to these 2 questions are given in the attached table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy of the Government on this matter is implemented through existing legislation and the practices established thereunder. All operations which are approved for subsidy under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act are covered by agreements between the Commonwealth and the company. In the event that a subsidised exploration drilling operation leads to the discovery of a field from which petroleum is produced for commercial or industrial purposes within 10 years from completion of tha operation, there is provision in the agreements for certain repayments in respect of the subsidy paid on the drilling operation. 
International Society for Social Responsibility in Science (Question No. 4827) 

 - Mr Speaker, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend section 50 of the Public Service Act 1922- 1968. This section deals with the transfer and promotion of officers within the Commonwealth Public Service, and the system under which an appeal against the selection of an officer for promotion may be made by any other officer who may consider himself more entitled to promotion than the officer selected. The section establishes committees, called 'promotions appeal committees', which are required to make full inquiries into the claims of any appellants and the officer who has been promoted. These committees consist of an independent  chairman,  an officer, nominated by the permanent head of the department in which the promotion was made and an officer nominated by the appropriate staff association. 
At the present, where a provisional pro.motee and an appellant perform their duties in different States, the Act requires the promotions appeal committee in the relevant States to hear the appeals and make reports to the Public Service Board. The Board then determines the appeal. The question of interstate appeals has been considered in recent times by the Joint Council, an employer-employee body constituted under the Public Service Act to advise the Public Service Board on conditions of service. The Joint Council recommended that a review promotions appeal committee be set up to consider the reports of State promotions appeal committees and, within prescribed limits, to determine the appeals. 
The Government has accepted the desirability of amending the Act to meet this proposal. The Bill therefore provides for the establishment of central promotions appeal committees. It requires that reports of State committees in cases where all the parties to the appeal do not perform their duties in the one State, be referred to a central committee for examination and for any further inquiries it considers necessary. The central promotions appeal committees will have the same powers of determination as State committees. In the drafting of the Bill the opportunity has been taken to revise various detailed provisions relating to the present promotions appeal system, particularly in relation to cases where there are two or more appellants. If honourable members so desire, these amendments can be explained in more detail during the Committee stages of the Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I shall be pleased to make available to any honourable member, on request, a copy of the report provided by the Department of Civil Aviation to the Director-General of the Pacific Basin Economic Council. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Qantas has on order computers and ancillary equipment to cover its requirements through the 1970s for passenger reservations, aircraft departure control and general data processing. This will replace all existing computer equipment which has now reached the limit of its capacity. 
Some of the equipment has been progressively installed in temporary locationsover the last year for the purpose of developing the complex passenger reservations and data transmissions systems and to provide essential extra computing capacity for general data processing. 
The computer equipment is scheduled to commence installation at its permanent site in a new computer centre in Sydney on 1st June 1972. 
Yes. 
A series of building trades industrial disputes has delayed completion of the new computer centre by 14 months. There has been no loss of revenue because the existing computer reservations system, despite some limitations, has continued to cope with demands. 
The existing reservations system has limitations particularly in respect of Boeing 747 passenger bookings. The new system will remedy these limitations and will also provide a new facility to assist the boarding of passengers at airports. Original planning to have the new system available prior to the introduction of Boeing 747s was thwarted by the building delays. 
The current economic difficulties within the airline industry have necessitated an objective review  of  the introductory dates of computer facilities at overseas stations. To meet the current commercial need introductory dates have been advanced at some stations and deferred at others. No long term overall curtailment of facilities is anticipated. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Some noise measurements were takenat Lara during investigations which were made by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, and on one later occasion also. Isolated noise measurements are not in themselves meaningful and do not indicate general community noise exposure. 
The Department of Civil Aviation is preparing a Noise Exposure Forecast for Avalon which will be relative to localities such as Lara. I expect this forecast to be available during late February of this year and would be pleased to send you a copy, together with explanatory material, if you feel this would be useful. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Underthe Australia-Japan Air Service Agreement Qantas may operate services to Tokyo, and at that point may put down andtake on international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail on either of the following routes for the Australian designated air: 
Points in Australia - Biak or a point in Indonesia - a point in British North Borneo - Manila - Hong Kong - Tokyo. 
Points in Australia - Guam - Tokyo. 
Qantas may thus exercise traffic rights granted by the Japanese authorities to serve Port Moresby on either of these routes (and in fact does so on its present Far East service between Sydney and Tokyo via Manila and Hong Kong), and to serve Guam on the second of these routes. The Australia-United States Air Services Agreement does not, however, permit the Australian airline to provide scheduled services through Guam on a route between Sydney and Tokyo. 
Under the Australia-Japan Air Services Agreement the designated airline of Japan, namely Japan Air Lines, may put down and take on international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail on either of the following routes: 
Points in Japan - Hong Kong - Manila - a point in Indonesia - Darwin - Sydney. 
Points in Japan - Guam - Sydney. 
Neither of these routes includes Port Moresby. 
It is understood that the United States Government has not granted traffic rights for the Japanese designated* airline to operate services on a route beyond Guam to either Port Moresby or Sydney. 
Accordingly, neither Qantas nor Japan Air Lines may land at both Guam and Port Moresby in the course of services between Sydney and Tokyo. 
Such matters were not among those raised with the United States authorities in Washington on 10th November 1970. 
Yes. 
No. 
(a) In general, Qantas and the Tourist Commission approach the question of promoting Australia as a holiday and convention resort separately because of the Commission's policy of working with all carriers, including Qantas' competitors. However, Qantas and the Tourist Commission are in constant consultation in Japan and have been jointly engaged in the promotion of many affinity group projects and have successfully arranged many inclusive tours from Japan. At the same time, Qantas also maintains close contact with the Japan Tourist Bureau. The result of the promotional policy followed by Qantas and the Tourist Commission is indicated by the fact that Qantas revenue from group and inclusive tour fares on this route is growing at a rate beyond that which could normally be expected from a route in operation since 1950. The revenue obtained for the seven month period April/October 1971, already exceeds that from the year April 1970/March 1971. 
A striking example of the co-operative promotional efforts of Qantas and the Tourist Commission is the revenue of $400,000 obtained by Qantas in respect of the recent Rotary Convention held in Sydney. 
Since Qantas and Japan Air Lines are in competition, no formal consultation on methods of promoting visits by tourists from Japan takes place between them, but each carrier is aware of the activities of the other. Both carriers market tour programmes promoting Australia, Qantas through the large tour operators 'Look' and Japan Air Lines through its own 'Jalpak'. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In keeping with the practices adopted in other countries privately owned aircraft are regularly inspected by organisations and persons specifically approved or licensed for the purpose by the Director General. The Department supervises this activity by programmed surveillance which includes the detailed inspection by officers of the Department of an appropriate number of aircraft as an indication of the proficiency of the organisations and persons concerned. 
Air Navigation Order 100.5.1 requires that an aircraft be inspected each 100 hours or 12 months whichever occurs first. Certification for this inspection must be made by licensed aircraft maintenance engineers. In addition a 'major inspection' is required to be performed in an approved workshop each 3 years and must be certified by licensed aircraft maintenance engineers. 
The 100 hourly, inspection is made in accordance with a schedule in the Air Navigation Order while the depth of the 'major inspection' is determined by the person certifying as, at its completion, he is required to certify that the aircraft can fly safely for the ensuing 3 years subject to proper maintenance. He can only make such a certification after substantial disassembly of the aircraft. 
In the case of highly complex private aircraft the inspection system is similar to that used by the airlines. 
The owner of any private aircraft is required by Air Navigation Order 100.5.1 to have his aircraft undergo a 'major inspection' in an approved workshop. A reminder as to the due date of the 'major inspection' is sent to the owner's registered address and advice as to its completion is sent to a Regional Office of the Department. 
If any inspection is not performed within the specified period the Maintenance Release ceases to be in force and any, further operation of the aircraft would be in contravention of the Air Navigation Regulations. 
In the event that a major defect is found in an aircraft either during operation or while undergoing inspection the details must be notified to the Department. 
Any repairs to an aircraft must be made in accordance with repair drawings or schemes approved by the Director-General or a qualified engineer specifically authorised for the purpose under the Air Navigation Regulations. Details of repairs are not required to be furnished to the Department but must be set out in the aircraft log book. These log books are subject to examination by the Department's officers on a sampling basis. 
Owner-pilots and pilots of privately operated aircraft are prohibited from carrying paying passengers but may carry non-paying passengers. They are not permitted to fly an aircraft which has not been inspected in accordance with the requirements of Air Navigation Order 100.5.1 or which has no certificate of airworthiness except when a flight for purposes of ferry, test or emergency is specifically, approved by the DirectorGeneral. To do so would be an act in contravention of the Air Navigation Regulations. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
While Qantas does not conduct any formal training specifically related to instructing its staff in the management techniques used by other international airlines, it invests a considerable amount of time and money in training Company personnel in the techniques that they require to perform their functions. 
In very many fields of operation, Qantas staff and those of other international airlines work closely together in a sharing of mutual experiences and in joint approaches to overcome common problems. Through this co-operation the staff gain a valuable insight into the techniques used, and particularly their application, by other airlines. Thus Qantas can sometimes benefit by adapting techniques used overseas to its own operation. 
I agree with the honourable member that this is a most important matter that affects the rights of the people of Australia. This report was tabled by the Prime Minister last October. He made a statement on it at the time, stressing the importance of it and indicating that the matter would be studied by the Government and that certain other matters relating to it would be studied by the AttorneyGeneral. The Leader of the Opposition also made a statement by leave at that time on the same subject. This is a very important matter and as the Prime Minister indicated at that time the Government had not had the opportunity of studying the report at all but the ,'rime Minister thought it essential to hive it tabled as quickly as possible after it had been received by the Government. Since then there have been continuing s tidies in relation to not only the report bit also a number of related matters, principally by the AttorneyGeneral, anr at this point of time the studies have not been completed. But I can assure tie House that as soon as the studies have been completed and the matter has been considered by the Government everything possible will be done to expedite a debate on it. 
I must apologise first of all for intervening. It is not normal for a Minister to speak during the grievance debate but I want io take a few minutes to refer to a couple of matters that have been raised. I know that the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has been concerned about this and has expressed his concern in a certain way this morning. I should place on record some of the facts in relation to this matter. I am pleased that the honourable member withdrew his earlier comments about the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Such comments do not contribute to the dignity of the House and, secondly, of course they were not correct.  His  withdrawal has adjusted that matter. I would like to place on record the fact that the communication that was made to the South African Government in April last year was exactly as described by the Prime Minister in the House on 6th April in response to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at that time. It can be checked in Hansard where it will be seen that the Prime Minister referred at that time to a communication which at that stage was described as a message to the South African Government conveyed through the Ambassador here. I should make it quite clear that this is the normal means of communication. When a message is sent to another government, as the Leader of the Opposition will know, it is done in the usual way through the ambassador here. It is a fact, and the Prime Minister corrected himself publicly later on and also in the Parliament- 
The Prime Minister has made this matter quite clear. In fact, in reply to a question on notice asked by the honourable member for Bendigo, he indicated that he inadvertently used the word 'letter' instead of 'communication'. 
Yes. He used it during a television interview and also on another occasion. He was fully aware that a message had been sent but the term 'letter* instead of 'communication' was used. This was subsequently corrected in a written reply to the honourable member for Bendigo after the error had been drawn to attention. 
That was after the House had risen. It was drawn to the Prime Minister's attention at that time. At no point of lime was there any inaccuracy in the substance of the statements which had been made to the House dealing with the Government's attitude at that time to the refusal of the South African Government to allow non-white players to participate in the projected visit to Australia and the statement that the views of the Government had been conveyed to the South African Government. I merely wanted to place on record that the statements that had been made were completely accurate in relation to the substance of the matter. The Prime Minister did indicate that the term 'letter' had been used instead of the term 'communication' at that time. But the substance was completely correct. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A number of locations for a second airport for Sydney have been considered over recent years. An Interdepartmental Committee set up to advise the Government considered the following locations: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation, has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3). It was not necessary for Qantas to make a claim for compensation. Most pooling arrangements provide automatically for maintenance of an element of revenue share for a carrier suffering a strike. In this context Qantas received approximately $3m in compensation from its pool partners in respect of the strike in November/December 1966. But this was not sufficient to offset the consequent loss of revenue, and Qantas incurred a loss of $1.5m for 1966-67. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At Bendigo there is an Authorised Landing Area operated by the Bendigo Airfield Committee which consists of representatives of the City of Bendigo and the Shire of Strathfieldsaye. 
The Department assisted the Airfield Committee in the selection of the site and with technical advice for its development, making allowance for the site ultimately to be developed to full licensing standards. As far as the Department is aware, there is no proposal to develop the site to licensed standard in the immediate future. 
Authorised Landing Areas do not receive Commonwealth financial assistance under the terms of the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan. However, should the aerodrome be developed to licensed standard then the Commonwealth would provide some financial assistance depending upon the type of operations conducted. 
There is a licensed aerodrome in the Latrobe Valley operated on a joint basis by the City of Traralgon and the Shires of Morwell and Traralgon. This aerodrome was developed by the Department of Civil Aviation and the Latrobe Valley Aero Club and was transferred to the Councils under the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan in 1965. The Commonwealth now meets 50 per cent of the costs for approved development and maintenance works. 
The Department of Civil Aviation does not have any applications from operators interested in providing air services to Bendigo or the Latrobe Valley and, moreover, there have never been regular air services to those centres. The availability of other means of transport and the relative proximity of both places to Melbourne probably lead operators to the conclusion that regular air services wouldbe a doubtful economic proposition in the present circumstances. 
The Department of Civil Aviation is not represented on the Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. However, the Department is available to provide aviation information whenever so required. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Figures on such concessional travel granted by international airlines are not available, apart from figures which have been provided by Qantas. These show that Qantas provided international travel for 13,100 airline employees and dependents during the year ended 30th June 1971. Qantas statistics do not distinguish between employees and dependents. 
(a) To its own employees and their depen dents at varying rebates between SO per cent and 100 per cent, basically in accordance with length of service, (b) On a reciprocal basis to most other Australian airline employees and their dependants, and to employees and their dependents of various international airlines with which Qantas has reciprocal arrangements. The concessions offered vary from airline to airline and depend on such conditions as the extent of reciprocity offered to Qantas employees, and length of service with the airline concerned. 
The policy and practicability of granting free or reduced fares transportation on revenue earning flights is kept constantly under review in the light of commercial considerations, including current and projected available capacity. 
A 5-year agreement between the Commonwealth and the States for softwood plantings has just been concluded and a new agreement to carry on for another 5 years has been negotiated, through the Australian Forestry Council. There were some points of detail to be clarified and until fairly recently all States had not agreed to the conditions of the new agreement but I am happy to say that following correspondence between the Prime Minister and the Premiers all States have indicated that they will subscribe to the new agreement under which certain conditions are set down governing the plantings by the various States. In the overall picture over the 5-year period there will be a slight increase in the total planting allocations made by the Commonwealth. The conditions set out in the agreement have now been accepted by all States and will be implemented in the near future. 
I shall answer the question. This matter has been raised in the House on quite a number of occasions. The honourable member who has asked the question has referred to it previously and I think he knows full well the background to the position. The Government established a departmental committee at least a couple of years ago to investigate airport requirements for Sydney after the present international and domestic airports reach saturation point. This investigation was carried out and a report was submitted to my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation. The details of that report were made known in this House. 
Finally 2 sites were to be considered. It was decided then because of the implications and associated difficulties that there would be a joint investigation by the Commonwealth into all the circumstances. That investigation is now being carried out. 
When a report is received from the Commonwealth and State committee that has been established it will be considered by the Minister for Civil Aviation. When any announcement is made, it will certainly be conveyed to this House. 
by leave  -  I move: 
That this House in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908-1963 authorises the publication of the evidence taken by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory during the Australian Capital Territory freehold lands inquiry. 
This evidence was taken at public hearings by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory appointed during the previous Parliament but publication of this evidence was not then authorised. The present Committee has received a request to make the evidence available but has no authority to authorise the publication of evidence taken by the previous Committee. Consequently the Committee has asked the House to authorise publication of the evidence so that it may be made available. 
Mi DALY (Grayndler)  (3.59)-  As the  Deputy Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I endorse the comments of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  The matter was considered by the Committee yesterday and the reason advanced for its presentation to the Parliament was that this was the only way in which it could make public and available evidence which it is well known was taken at a public inquiry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have a great deal of sympathy for the honourable member because I had exactly the same experience yesterday in Melbourne when I happened to be coming back from Hobart. I know that the position in relation to parallel timetables has engaged the attention of the Department of Civil Aviation for some years. Over the years there has been some improvement compared with what the situation was prior to the matter first being raised in this House. 
However, there are points that have to be considered. We have to consider the total equipment that is available. Also, peak loadings and matters of that nature must be taken into account by the airlines. I can recall that when I was Minister for Civil Aviation, despite the problems associated with flight schedules, the airlines were able to make some variation and some improvements at the time. However, as this matter has been raised again I will see that it is referred to my colleague. I will ask him to take the matter up again with the airlines. 
I have referred to this matter a number of times in the Parliament. We have not reached the stage of calling for tenders. The position at the present time is that all the States concerned - New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia - have been given an indication by the Prime Minister in correspondence to the Premiers that the Commonwealth has agreed to the increased cost beyond the 10 per cent provided for in the escalation clause in the previous agreement. In other words the total cost has increased from a figure which I think was $57m to $64m since the original agreement was made. This was an increase of a little over II per cent. Because it was beyond the 10 per cent provided for in the escalation clause in the agreement, the matter had to be reconsidered by the governments concerned. This caused a problem in that it further delayed the commencement of the construction of this very important project on the River Murray system beyond the almost 2 years' delay which had been caused by the refusal of the present Government of South Australia to proceed with the agreement which had been arranged by the Steele Hall Government. 
Whilst I say that, we are happy to know now that the present South Australian Government has at last agreed to join the other governments concerned by legislating in the South Australian Parliament to proceed with the agreement in the terms that had been arranged by the former government. At the present time the River Murray Commission is examining the position and is doing some of the early planning. Some detail has yet to be finalised between all the governments, and we are trying to get this work done as quickly as possible. When that has been done a proclamation will be made by the 4 governments under the Acts in the various States and the Commonwealth, and at that point of time we will be able to call tenders for the work to proceed. I can give an assurance to the honourable member and the House that the Commission is endeavouring to do this as quickly as possible to prevent any further undue delay such as we have seen in the past. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has tabled the text of an agreement for co-operation on the peaceful uses of atomic energy recently concluded with Japan. This is a governmenttogovernment agreement somewhat similar to the other government-to-government agreements with the United States of America and Canada and agreements which our Atomic Energy Commission has effected with counterpart organisations in the United Kingdom and France. 
As far as Australia is concerned, an important feature of the agreement is that it opens the way to export our uranium to Japan within our policy that such exports will be used only for peaceful purposes, this to be verified by application of an international safeguards system. Further, we expect to obtain benefit from the interchange of technical information which the agreement facilitates. Nuclear power is very important to Japan, a country which not only lacks indigenous fossil fuels but is also subject to the risk of environmental pollution attendant upon a densely populated and highly industrialised State. Its plans for installation of nuclear power stations envisage installation of 60,000 MW by 1985, and 220,000 MW by the year 2000. Such a programme will require significant quantities of uranium, about 400,000 tons of U308 cumulative to the end of the century. 
While a large part of the Japanese requirements for the near future are already covered by existing contracts with suppliers in other countries, the prospects are that Australian producers will be able to obtain a reasonable share of the market in later years. The agreement will facilitate their entry into this important market. The atomic energy industry in Japan is rapidly moving towards the export of nuclear power station equipment. Having started its programme with technology acquired from other countries, Japan is now starting to produce designs and technical processes based on its own research and development. It is expected that it will have much to offer us in the way of information of use for our own future nuclear power programme. 
The safeguards called for in the agreement will be applied by the International Atomic Energy Agency and negotiations on the details, involving tri-lateral agreement between the Agency, Australia and Japan, are now nearing completion. As indicated by my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the agreement is a framework within which separate agreements can be made to cover a wide range of atomic energy projects and activities.It therefore creates the opportunity to develop with Japan to our mutual benefit the same close co-operation in the atomic energy field as already exists in other areas. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Air-conditioning was not included in the first construction phase of the Sydney International Terminal building and this had the concurrence of the Parliamentary Standing Committee for Public Works. Nevertheless the design of the building was such as to permit full air-conditioning to be incorporated later. Full air-conditioning is included in the Draft Civil Works Programme for 1972-73 which is now being considered in detail. 
It is estimated that the cost of additional air-conditioning will be in excess of $500,000. 
lt is expected that direct access from Tempe to the International Terminal will be available within a few weeks, lt is a project which is under the control of the New South Wales Department of Main Roads. 
It is underwood that the State has tentative plans for direct access from the southern suburbs to the airport, lt is suggested that your questions should be directed to the State Government of New South Wales. 
Approximately $200,000 has been spent on the beautification of the new terminal area and the road approaches to that area. Further beautification is being undertaken and will continue as funds become available. 
It is a fact that Aerial Services of Tasmania, which is a charter operator in Tasmania, had a commuter licence which was withdrawn recently because of some breaches of the regulations laid down by the Department of Civil Aviation. When I say 'breaches' I mean this in the 'technical sense that the operator did not meet the higher standards for commuter services that do not apply tq normal charter operations. However, my understanding now is that there is a new management of the company and that today the licence will be re-issued to Captain Burns as the chief pilot of the company. This will enable the commuter operations of the company to recommence immediately! I can assure the House also that commuter operators in Tasmania, as in other parts of Australia, must meet the standard laid down by the Department of Civil Aviation, and, whilst the licence will be re-issued today, an eye will be kept on the standards which are maintained by the company to ensure that it operates completely in accordance with the conditions laid down. I am pleased to inform the House that this very important and valuable service to the WeS, coast of Tasmania will be able to recommence. 
I explain to honourable members that this is purely a formal matter. If the House will permit me, I will immediately move that consideration of the report be made an order of the day for a future day, which will give all honourable members an opportunity to study the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - On 1 5th March 1972, the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  and 1 issued a Press statement indicating that certain amendments would be made to the Companies (Uranium Mining Companies) Ordinance 1970 of the Australian Capital Teritory. Those amendments have nOW been made by the Companies (Uranium Mining Companies) Ordinance 1972, which was notified in the Gazette on 17th March 1972 and tabled today. I take this opportunity of informing the House of the nature of the amendments and of the reasons for them. On 17th September 1970 the then Prime Minister made a statement in this House concerning action that the Government would take to ensure that control of the development of the uranium discovery at Nabarlek by Queensland Mines Limited and Kathleen Investments (Australia) Limited would remain in the hands of Australian companies for the benefit of Australian shareholders and Australia generally. The then Prime Minister indicated the intention of the Government to legislate in order, firstly, to limit to IS per cent of the issued share capital the total number of shares able to be held in either company by persons not ordinarily resident in Australia or by foreign corporations; and, secondly, to limit the number of shares held in either company by any one person not ordinarily resident in Australia or by any one foreign corporation to not more than 5 per cent of the issued share capital. Subsequently, in December 1970, the Australian Capital Territory Companies (Uranium Mining Companies) Ordinance 1970 was made giving effect to the Government decisions. The Ordinance contained provisions protecting from its operation rights that had accrued before its commencement. 
In February 1971, following the collapse of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd, a busi ness crisis arose of proportions which had very serious implications, particularly for several of the major creditors. The Supreme Court of New South Wales appointed a liquidator who immediately set about the task of conducting the liquidation in an orderly fashion and in a way which would involve the least possible loss to all concerned. As the House will recall there was considerable public concern at the time of the collapse of Mineral Securities and although the conduct of the liquidation was not a matter in relation to which the Commonwealth Government had direct responsibilities, I should make it clear to the House that, very properly, the Government did take the closest interest in this whole matter. In early February, soon after the collapse of Mineral Securities, it came to the notice of the Government that there was a possibility of a proposed consortium of both overseas and Australian interests mounting a rescue operation to minimise the impact of the Minerals Securities failure by making loan moneys available. The Government noted that the eventual result might be the acquisition of shares by overseas interests in Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments beyond the limits .prescribed in the Ordinance. Tha Government decided at the time that if this occurred the Ordinance would be amended. In the event the proposed consortium did not eventuate. 
One of the major assets of Mineral Securities was a substantial number oi shares in both Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments. The Liquidator arranged for all of the creditors of Mineral Securities who claimed security over shares in these 2 companies to form a syndicate for the purpose of selling the shares in cooperation with the Liquidator acting as its agent. For this purpose the Liquidator obtained an order from the Supreme Court of New South Wales. On 5th March 1971 tenders were called by the Liquidator on a world-wide basis. Tenders closed on 11th March 1971. A number of bids were received and several tenders for comparatively small parcels were accepted. A tender for the major part of the share holdings offered in the 2 companies was made by a syndicate comprised of Noranda Australia Ltd, Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd, and the Australian Mutual Provident 
Society. Noranda and ICI are both well known and respected overseas companies, the former from Canada and the latter from the United Kingdom. The AMP Society is a wholly Australian institution. Negotiations were conducted by the Liquidator with this syndicate resulting finally in a sale at what the Liquidator described as a satisfactory price. 
At the time that the Noranda syndicate was preparing its bid the total percentage of all foreign holdings in Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments was not known. A great many holdings still had to bc examined by the Registrar of Companies in the Australian Capital Territory with a view to determining whether they were foreign or not, and until this task had been completed Noranda and ICI had no means of ascertaining with certainty whether their proposed acquisition of shares in Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments would result in the 15 per cent limit set by the Ordinance for all foreign holdings being exceeded. Inquiries have shown that the syndicate led by Noranda was concerned as to the effect of its bid, if successful, on the level of foreign holdings in the 2 companies specified in the Ordinance. After thorough investigation the Government is satisfied that this syndicate took reasonable precautions before submitting its tender on 11th March 1971. The major party in the syndicate was Noranda and this company specifically limited its offer so that its share holdings in both Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments were kept within the 5 per cent limit imposed on a single foreign share holder by the Ordinance. 
In addition, Noranda states that, on behalf of the syndicate, it approached the then Chairman of Queensland Mines and asked whether a bid on the part of its syndicate would be likely to result in total share holdings by foreigners being in excess of the 15 per cent specified in the Ordinance. Noranda states that the reply was that from an examination of the share register it appeared that its bid, if successful, would bring foreign share holdings to something of the order of only 13 per cent. Further, through the broking house which was acting as its investment advisers, the then Prime Minister was advised  of  the identities  of  the potential tenderers in the Noranda syndicate and of their concern lest their bid bring foreign share holdings beyond the 15 per cent limit. It is stated by Noranda that an indication was given that the Government would not object if, as a result of a successful tender by the Noranda syndicate, foreign share holdings were temporarily reasonably in excess of the limit prescribed by the Ordinance. Such an assurance was, of course, consistent with the Government's decision to which I referred earlier. I should interpolate here that I have spoken with the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the then Prime Minister, who, while he does not recall all the details of this conversation, nonetheless agrees that assurances were given to the syndicate and he fully supports the action which the Government has now taken and which I will outline to the House shortly. 
The Ordinance vests certain functions in the Registrar of Companies of the Australian Capital Territory one of which is to certify whether a transfer of shares is such that if registered it would increase the number of foreign shares beyond the specified limit, viz. 15 per cent. Before a transfer of shares could be registered it was necessary for the Registrar to determine the number of foreign shares as at the date the Ordinance came into force. This lengthy procedure, involving an inquiry into more than 6,000 share holdings covering millions of shares, was only recently completed. As a result it was established that registration of the Noranda and ICI shares, along with others awaiting registration, would bring foreign holdings to almost 21 per cent. Here I should point out that because of the need to determine foreign share holdings as at the date of the introduction of the Ordinance, no transfers to foreign share holders have been registered since the Ordinance was made in December 1970. The purchase of shares by Noranda and ICI constitutes a substantial portion of the excess above 15 per cent. However I should make 2 points clear: Firstly, the outstanding transfers held by the Registrar cover a considerable number of other transactions - some lodged ahead of the Noranda transfers, some between those of Noranda and ICI, and some after that date. Secondly, until 15th March 1972 there had been no official public intimation that the 15 per cent limit on foreign share holdings in Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments had been exceeded. 
The Government has examined this whole matter exhaustively. It has noted the precautions which the Noranda syndicate took and it accepts that that syndicate acted in good faith and in the belief that the Government would take whatever action was necessary to protect the syndicate's interests if the 15 per cent limit were exceeded as a result of its bid being successful. The Government has also noted that if the transfers of these shares are not registered the result could well be litigation between Noranda and the Official Liquidator of Mineral Securities. The Government does not express any view as to the possible result of any such litigation, but it recognises, after consultations with the Official Liquidator, that the very threat of litigation would inevitably result in delaying the whole procedures of winding up the Mineral Securities group and would jeaopardise seriously the atmosphere of confidence in the plan of liquidation which the Liquidator has been able to build up since his appointment. 
The Government therefore decided that, while retaining the basic limit of 15 per cent as announced in this House by the former Prime Minister, the Ordinance would be amended so that no foreigner who had acquired shares in Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments before the announcement of this decision - namely, midnight on 15th March 1972- will have his transfer refused registration. The amendment applies equally to all persons who had acquired shares in either of the two uranium companies before the announcement. This result has been achieved by amending certain provisions in the principal ordinance which ensured that it did not operate against rights that had already accrued before the principal Ordinance came into operation. This protection has now been extended to cover rights that had accrued under transactions entered into before the announcement which was released at midnight on 15th March 1972 Australian Eastern Standard Time. 
I should make it clear to the House that the amending Ordinance does not change the existing basic limits for foreign shareholdings in the two companies concerned. In the result foreign holdings will temporarily exceed the prescribed percentages but while this situation continues no further sales of shares in either of the two companies will be able to be made to foreigners. When the level of foreign holdings falls below 15 per cent the Ordinance will operate as originally intended and transfers will be permitted up to but not beyond the 15 per cent announced by the Government in 1970. Shares held in excess of 15 per cent under this special arrangement will have normal voting rights and their holders will be able to participate in any new general share issues by virtue of their holdings of these shares. 
The Government decided that it was necessary to amend the Ordinance having regard, first, to the importance of ensuring that the Minsec collapse is handled so as to afford the maximum of protection for the creditors of Minsec and to avoid possible litigation which would jeopardise the confidence in the whole plan of liquidation; secondly, to the uncertainty that existed at the time of the Minsec collapse as to the extent of existing foreign holdings in the two companies and to the fact that it has taken until now to classify all the share holdings in Queensland Mines and Kathleen Investments into foreign and non-foreign; and thirdly, because the Government is satisfied that the Noranda syndicate acted in good faith and took reasonable precautions. 
Having considered this whole situation with considerable care the Government feels that the action I have outlined to the House is fair, reasonable and proper. For the future there will be a firm base upon which the Ordinance can be administered as originally intended. I present the following paper: 
by leave - This matter is one of great importance and involves high moral principles. I am sure that my feelings on this matter are just as strong as those of most honourable members but there are many points of difference in relation to the degree to which this matter should be taken. At the outset 1 would like to correct the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on a matter of procedure. He said that he had paused for a moment to see whether a Minister would rise to take the Bill and that as no Minister rose he then rose because otherwise the Bill perhaps would be missed. The position is that when it was known that the Bil] was coming over to this House from the Senate I naturally received advice on the correct procedure, as we do in all cases like this. 
My advice was that in the case of Government Bills coming from the Senate it is not unusual for a Minister to move after the first reading that the second reading be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. I am advised, however, that any such motion by a Minister in relation to a private member's Bill would be contrary to practice. The standard practice would be for the Opposition to move the second reading forthwith and, as a private mem- ber's Bill must be seconded, the seconder could also choose to speak immediately. On the last occasion when a similar Bill in relation to the abolition of the death penalty was received in the House from the Senate this course was followed. This is the procedure which has been followed today. I knew that the Leader of the Opposition was going to move a motion and that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  would second it. The contribution by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory was a very sound one which I am sure will be carefully considered by all honourable members. However. I am afraid that the Leader of the Opposition was perhaps a little embarrassed by the fact that the Bill originated from  Senator Murphy  in another place. I am sorry to say that he introduced a slight air of politics into a debate which concerns everyone individually on very strong moral grounds. 
The point is that when a Bill Ls introduced by the Government, whether it originates here or comes from the Senate, the procedure is that the Minister introduces it, takes it through the first reading stage to the second reading stage, moves the second reading and makes a speech. The Opposition then normally moves the adjournment of the debate. This often occurs in relation to matters of Government business which are known of for some considerable time. In fact, policy statements could be made many months before hand so that the subject matter of the Bill is known before the Bill is introduced. However, it is a matter of practice in this House that when a Bill is introduced on that basis it is not proceeded with at the time. The debate is adjourned and this gives the Opposition Caucus an opportunity to study the Bill. The Bill then goes onto the notice paper in the order of priority which is decided by the Government and is debated in accordance with the priority which it is given on the notice paper.  1  suggest in this case that this is a matter of great importance in which there are great moral issues involved. The Bill has come from the Senate. As the Leader of the Opposition has said there have been Bills and debates on this subject in the past as well as a study of it by a Senate committee, but this particular Bill was received in the House only when you,  Mr Speaker,  announced it as the subject of a message from the Senate this afternoon. Of course, it is obvious that the Government Parties will need time to look at this Bill and not only to study it in its present context but also to make an examination of the very important matters of a general nature that are involved. The Government will arrange for the matter to be brought up for discussion at a joint meeting of the Government Parties and any decision or any matter emerging from that discussion will be made known. 
I cannot indicate this because I am not in control of the Party meetings, but the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has given me an assurance that the matter will be raised at a meeting of the joint Government parties for discussion. In view of these circumstances and the fact that the Opposition expects the Government, when it introduces a Bill, to extend the courtesy of not having to proceed with the second reading debate immediately, I am sure that the Government can expect the same courtesy from the Leader of the Opposition in this case. Because the Bill has been introduced only today the debate should be adjourned to give the Government Parties an opportunity to study not only the Bill but also associated matters. Therefore, having stated that and having indicated that the Government Parties will be considering this matter generally at a future meeting I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I seek such leave. 
However, the  Clerk  has now pointed out to me - and it is something I had overlooked - that leave was granted to the Leader of the House to continue the debate, and in those circumstances the Leader of the Opposition may vote against the motion for the adjournment of the debate. I will put the question again, if the Leader of the Opposition likes. 
Question put. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Because of the complexity of the problems arising in connection with the determination of appropriate roles for scheduled and charter operations in meeting the increasing demand for bulk transportation atlow fares many Governments have had difficulty in reaching decisions. The talks at Australian initiative late last year and early this year between the Australian Government, European Governments and the Government of the United States on low fare flights have produced a most helpful and useful exchange of views. Discussions are to continue not only between the Australian Government and these other Governments but also between European and North American Governments in the very near future. The outcome cannot yet be predicted and, pending some resolution of the very considerable problems involved in determining a proper relationship between scheduled and charter operations, it has been deemed prudent to defer discussions on charter operations with countries in the Pacific and in South East Asia. It should be remembered, however, that charter flights to those areas can take place within the terms of existing Australian policy at reduced rates. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. However, these airlines did not submit their proposals beforehand to the Government. 
The Select Committee, in direct contact with the airlines invited them to submit proposals for the future development of air services in Papua New Guinea. 
Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Qantas Airways Ltd submitted such proposals direct to the Committee, but the Australian National Airlines Commission (TAA), which would not be empowered under its present charter to provide services within an independent Papua New Guinea, referred the question of its future role in Papua New Guinea to me. It was not possible to provide the Commission with an indication of the Government's intention in this regard in the time available. 
So far as Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, is concerned, the company was under no obligation to present its proposals to the Government for approval priorto their submission to the Committee. Qantas Airways Ltd, unlike the Australian 
National Airlines Commission, would not be excluded from conducting operations within an independent Papua New Guinea, and, thus, was also not obliged to submit its proposals to the Government beforehand. Its proposals, however, would require the approval of the Government before they might be implemented. 
The future development of civil aviation in Papua New Guinea is part of a programme for movement to full internal self Government involving a wide range of complex issues (of which air transport is only a part) which the Government is preparing at the request of the House of Assembly for discussion with the leadership group which may emerge after the current elections. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 5th July, 24th August and 22nd October 1971 at the Head Office of Trans-Australia Airlines in Melbourne. 
The Select Committee, in direct contact with the airlines invited them to submit proposals for the future development of air services in Papua New Guinea. 
Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Qantas Airways Ltd, submitted such proposals direct to the Committee, but the Australian National Airlines Commission (TAA), which would not be empowered under its present charter to provide services within an independent Papua New Guinea, referred the question of its future role in Papua New Guinea to me. It was not possible to provide the Commission with an indication of the Government's intention in this regard in the time available. 
So far as Ansett Transport Industries Ltd is concerned, the company was under no obligation to present its proposals to the Government for approval prior to their submission to the Committee. Qantas Airways Ltd, unlike the Australian National Airlines Commission, would not be excluded from conducting operations within an independent Papua New Guinea, and, thus, was also not obliged to submit its proposals to the Government beforehand. Its proposals, however, would require the approval of the Government before they might be implemented. 
The future development of civil aviation in Papua New Guinea is part of a programme for movement to full internal self Government involving a wide range of complex issues (of which air transport is only a part) which the Government is prepared at the request of the House of Assembly for discussion with the leadership group which may emerge after the current elections. 
and (4) The Department of Civil Aviation is not represented on the Committee, but where appropriate its views are necessarily sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not as yet taken any formal steps towards joining the European Nuclear Energy Agency as either an associate or a full member. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
This is a matter that the Leader of the Opposition raised at the end of the last sessional period, and it has been referred to, in a different way, by the Minister for Education and Science. To some degree this matter comes into my field because the nickel development concerned is at Greenvale and the Commonwealth has a specific interest, although, of course, the development is directly the concern of the Queensland Government. The position regarding the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill which is listed on the notice paper was stated by me in the House on the last occasion when the Leader of the Opposition raised the matter and also when one or two other honourable members referred to the matter at the same time. 
That was last December, before the end of the last sessional period. I indicated at the time that the Prime Minister had staled that the matter would be raised at a meeting of the joint Government parties during this sessional period of the Parliament. Subsequent to that time quite a number of actions have been taken in relation to the matter, all of which have required the attention of the Government and the attention of a number of Ministers. I think I can assure the Leader of the 
Opposition that this matter has not been neglected and certainly has not been overlooked or forgotten, because it is the intention of the Prime Minister to see that the matter is raised at the meeting of the joint Government parties during this week, after which will be explained what action has been taken and any future action that is considered. 
This matter has been raised by the honourable member in conjunction with his interest in the coal mining industry generally. Also, my friend opposite, the honourable member for Cunningham, raised the matter with me today. Firstly, I indicate that the interest of the honourable member for Macarthur in this matter is quite well known, not only in relation to these mines but also in regard to other important coal mining areas in his electorate. I had an opportunity to visit an area in the. honourable member's electorate only the week before last. Strange to say, the mine we visited and inspected is also run by the company to which he refers today. The Government is aware of some problems in relation to this matter. I have stated publicly and in the House that the Commonwealth is taking a special interest in the coal mining industry and has been doing so for some time. In fact, the Government undertook a survey of the. known reserves of coal in Australia. I published the results only a few months ago. I indicated at the time that, in addition to the survey of reserves, the Government was conducting other investigations into the industry. 
I hope to be in a position before long to submit a report to the Government not only in relation to the overall position of the industry but also in relation to the complications of overseas markets, the difficulties in the domestic field confronting the 2 major producing States of New South Wales and Queensland and the problems associated with the production of good quality coking coal on a cheaper basis by using open cut methods. These problems require very careful and close examination and discussion between all the governments concerned. We are moving towards that position at the present time. I have been informed that there is a strong possibility that the mines to which the honourable member referred could be closed. As a result of this possibility, we took up this matter immediately with the Joint Coal Board which is also discussing it with the appropriate State Government department - the Mines Department in New South Wales. At this point of time, I cannot make any further comment until these discussions are concluded, except to say that tomorrow there will be a meeting between the Miners Federation- 
lt is interesting to know that the Leader of the Opposition apparently is not interested in this matter, which is of vital importance to a large number of people in New South Wales and of importance to our economy as a whole. I was pointing out, in conclusion, that I cannot make any further comment at the moment, except to say that tomorrow there will be a meeting between the Miners Federation and the Joint Coal Board. After that meeting, I hope to be in a position to make some further comment. 
I appreciate the answer given by the honourable member. I only wish that I had a question to put to it. He certainly has provided some information, the facts of which I am unable to check at the moment; but as he states that he has been in communication with my colleague in another place, I will see that the matter is raised with my colleague and a suitable answer forwarded. 
I think I should make it clear to the House - I am sure it is known by all honourable members who can appraise a situation in a fair way - that Qantas, a major airline which operates as the flag carrier for Australia, is recognised for the particularly high standard that it has achieved in aviation circles throughout the world. It is a company which has operated efficiently and effectively. It is a company which has raised Australia's prestige in many countries of the world. There has been no change in the high standard being maintained by Qantas. The service that is being provided is up to the best standard in the world. Its record is as good as that of any other airline operating today. Its class of equipment is up to world standards. I pay a tribute to the staff of Qantas. The flying staff, the ground staff and the administrative staff are all playing an important part in an important airline, and are all carrying out their tasks in a very efficient way. 
My experience of Qantas over the years has been that, despite difficulties at times, the morale of the staff has always been good. I believe that today morale is still good. I know from discussions wilh my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation, that there has been a slight downturn in world figures for international air traffic and that Qantas has been affected by this situation, as have the other major operators throughout the world, but proportionately Qantas is not losing what Pan Am, Trans World Airlines, United Airlines and the other major airlines in the United States are losing. Qantas is losing proportionately less. In fact, if one looks at Qantas's record one finds that the company came out with another profit at the end of last year, although it was not up to the figure for the previous year. 
Obviously, because of a downturn in the international aviation field it has been necessary for Qantas, despite the fact that it is maintaining a very substantial share of the market and maintaining it well, to reduce its staff to a certain degree. We can only regret that. 1 do hope that the situation will change and that Qantas will be able to re-establish itself in the international aviation field, and not only to maintain its present share of the world traffic market but to increase it. When that happens Qantas will be in a position to expand its staff. I will see that the points which the honourable member has raised are referred to my colleague in another place for his information. But I repeat that I am sure the morale of Qantas today is as high as it has ever been in the past. 
I did see a Press statement relating to a report of some seminar, I think it was, at which the person concerned did make the claims, or at which he was reported to have made the claims. 1 think that it is really an extraordinary statement because of its complete inaccuracy. The position regarding iron ore and bauxite, I think, is quite, well known to all members in this House for the simple reason that I publish quite regularly a document which shows a summary of our known reserves. It is made available to all honourable members who, I am sure, study it most carefully. They would, therefore, be aware of the facts. 
The actual position is that some time ago when our total reserves were not known there was an embargo on the export of iron ore. When additional reserves were discovered, principally the enormous high quality reserves in the Pilbara area in Western Australia, that embargo was removed. Subsequent to that, further discoveries of iron ore have been made. Bauxite was discovered at Weipa, at Gove, in the southwestern part of Western Australia and also later at the Mitchell plateau - some of the deposits being the best and largest in the world. 
I conclude by saying that the figures to which reference has been made are inaccurate. The latest publication issued by the Bureau of Mineral Resources, which comes within the jurisdiction of my Department, classifies the known or proven reserves in Australia in categories of very large, large, adequate, small and very small. The 'very large' category applies to deposits which will cover the known requirements, domestically and in the export field, for over 100 years. Strange to say, both bauxite and iron ore come under that classification. 
Being in a debate with my friend, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is a little like old times. The honourable member queried whether the Government had any policy on this subject. I think that he said that the Government had no policy. Yet, the debate is on the Government's 2-airline policy. I would have liked the honourable member to have been a little clearer in relation to where the Opposition stands on this matter. Does it in fact support the present 2-airline policy? Does it consider that the 2-airline policy should continue in the future? 
The honourable gentleman did not make that clear, but he has now indicated that he supports the present 2-airline policy- 
... as the honourable member for Sydney has indicated also. We are very pleased to know that. In the past the Opposition has never made that point clear. It is a fact that the Government's 2-airline policy has brought significant benefits to the Australian domestic airline system. We have modern equipment, an efficient and widespread network of services, low fares and the world's best safety record. At the same time, the industry has been able to remain financially stable even when economic conditions have reduced traffic growth. No-one pretends that the system is perfect. Of course it is not. The Government recognises this. We are currently reviewing various aspects of the 2-airline policy. We have asked the airlines to look at several important areas in which we believe improvements can be made. 
The areas at which we have asked the airlines to look are, first, parallel timetables; secondly, freight services; thirdly, concession fares; and fourthly, country air services. One of the major areas of criticism of the 2-airline policy - this has been expressed again by the honourable member for Newcastle and has been expressed in the past in this House - has been the field of parallel timetables. This is one of the matters which we have asked the airlines to review. Following recent efforts by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  the airlines have submitted new schedules in the past few weeks which they claim will significantly reduce the degree of parallelism. The Department of Civil Aviation currently is studying these proposals. 
We must remember also the need for both airlines to remain financially viable. We must balance this with the requirements of the travelling public. The issue must be kept in its right perspective. For instance, the Melbourne-Sydney route has about 203 flights a week with 104 different time slots. The Sydney-Brisbane route has 116 flights a week with 62 separate times of travel. At the same time we are aware of the continuing problem of parallelism relating to Canberra, Tasmania, Coolangatta, Western Australia and even Darwin. But in consultation with the airlines, the Department of Civil Aviation hopes to overcome some of these problems. Already talks have been held with the airlines. These have produced new timetables which should bring about a greater separation of flights to and from Perth. Further separation of Darwin timetables is also toeing considered. However, I stress again that the Government is strongly pressing the airlines to improve the situation further. 
The honourable member for Newcastle referred quite rightly to the situation of Ansett Airlines of Australia in the operation of the 2-airline system. He criticised certain aspects of the share of the business which Trans-Australia Airlines obtains under the existing system. He made certain suggestions. Matters relating to the future of the 2-airline policy are under review at present, and obviously must be considered well before 1977 when the present agreement expires. Because of the financial commitment that airlines must make to meet future needs, consideration must be given to this very important matter at the present time. No-one can suggest that TAA has not been treated fairly under the Government's 2-airline policy. There are many aspects of this policy that one has to consider. In the past 10 years the number of passengers carried by TAA has risen from slightly over one million to 3 million. Revenue has trebled to its present level of $108m. Staff has increased from 4,600 to 7,500. During this 10-year period TAA has paid to the Commonwealth more than Slim, which is a very satisfactory situation indeed. There has been no call on the Commonwealth for additional capital dur ing this period. I think this record stands comparison with TAA's competitor - Ansett - despite the figures given and the statements made by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
In addition, TAA has made to the Government certain proposals about the review which is to take place in future. Those proposals, if approved, would enable TAA to extend its operations. It currently operates numerous activities other than just airline services. It services aircraft on behalf of other Commonwealth departments. It operates the aerial ambulance service in the Northern Territory. It has a specialist contract with the Department of Lands in South Australia. A glance at its advertising, I am sure, will quickly show that it is in no way limited in the sale of package holiday tours. So I think it is incorrect to state categorically and in a general way that TAA is limited solely to airline operations. The Government will consider the most recent proposals that have been put forward by TAA as part of its current review of the 2-airline policy. 
The honourable member for Newcastle referred to the takeover by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd of a 23) per cent shareholding in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. Obviously this introduces a new factor, the significance of which at present it is not possible to assess. But it must be taken into consideration in the review of the policy for the future. At present it is not possible to make any comment, other than that the matter will be taken into consideration, because we do not know the ramifications or the extent of the implications that flow from it. Until such time as Ansett Transport Industries is able to assess the situation, it is impossible for the Government to do so. I can assure the House, however, that the Government is well aware of the situation and obviously must take some account of it. 
Reference was made by the honourable member for Newcastle to the. application submitted by TAA for access to the PerthDarwin air route. This is not an application for access to all services or all routes in Western Australia but an application for access to the Perth-Darwin route. I think it is in similar terms to the previous applications that have been submitted by TAA. 
The Government recognises that the TAA case has been given a great deal of consideration over the years. As we know, there was an agreement between the Government and MacRobertson-Miller Airline Services which expired in 1970 but which was extended for a further year. After that TAA did submit a further application. However, consideration has been given to the application, and it has been decided that the issue should be considered as part of the 2-airline policy review which is being undertaken at present. It is only right and proper that the Perth-Darwin issue, I am sure, should be considered in the overall context and not in isolation. 
The situation in Western Australia has been made more complex in recent months due to the fall off in airline traffic growth rates and the general slowing down of a temporary nature - how temporary it is we do not know - of mining development in the north western part of Western Australia. At the same time, we should look at the situation there and we should realise the services that are now being provided and the additional facilities that have been provided by the Department of Civil Aviation such as additional runway facilities to bring them up to jet standard. The services that are now being provided in Western Australia are up to a high standard indeed. All these matters have to be taken into account and, as I have indicated, they certainly will be considered in the review of the 2-airline policy which is being undertaken at present. 
The honourable member for Newcastle also referred to concession fares. I suppose we should look at this matter in the overall sense. I think he perhaps omitted to draw attention to the fact that Qantas Airways has had a very definite part to play in the international field. I know he acknowledges the fact that Qantas has played a significant part in the fare reductions that have taken place in this field. In fact it was on the initiative of Qantas that recent changes took place such as reduction in the return fare to London to $700; also there was the approval of a series of World Airways charters from the United States to Australia. I shall refer to that matter shortly as I am sure it is of great interest to all members of the House. In recent months on the Australian scene there have been discussions between the Government and the domestic airlines to widen the concession fare market in Australia. At present the 2 major domestic airlines are studying methods by which they can introduce concession fares which will not have a detrimental effect on their regular operations. I think it is vitally important to ensure that where concession fares apply they do not upset the regular schedule structure of the airlines. 
I am sure we must acknowledge too that other operators such as East-West Airlines Ltd and in another field - the commuter operators - Business Jets Pty Ltd have shown considerable and commendable initiative in de.veloping inclusive tour and charter programmes on a fare basis which is acceptable to the public. I think we must consider that as something which is a very satisfactory adjunct to the present 2-airline system. 
I did mention a very important matter which has been announced recently by the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to the. approval that has been given to World Airways, which is a United States charter company, to operate 21 inclusive tour charter flights from the United States to Australia next year. This is somewhat of an experiment at present and the. approval is very limited. These flights will carry about 3,500 American tourists here next year on special low cost charter flights. The organisers estimate the value to Australia of this tourist programme to be about $2m. The. move has been welcomed widely throughout Australia, particularly by the tourist industry. This approval is a practical indication of the Government's desire to meet the demand for low cost charter flights on the Australia-United States route. 
It is not intended to throw open the doors to foreign charter companies at the expense of the scheduled airlines, particularly our international airline, Qantas. Any extension of the inclusive tour charter flight programme will depend on Qantas or its charter subsidiary Qantair getting United States approval to operate the same type of inclusive tour charter flights on the same terms and conditions as the United States charter operators have. 
My time has just about expired. I know that this debate has to be interrupted so that a ministerial statement can be made at 8 p.m. In view of that fact I will conclude by expressing appreciation of the fact that the. House has been given an opportunity to debate the matter at this time. It is interesting to have an indication from the Opposition that it supports the 2-airline policy as it exists and perhaps- 
We accept the fact that the Opposition does support in principle the existing policy of the Government. I move: 
That the debate be adjourned and the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The future of Essendon Airport is still under study. Airline facilities are still in the process of transferring to the new Melbourne Airport. It could be some time before the picture clears sufficiently for a firm decision to be made as to the future of Essendon and it follows that it is still not possible to advise whether there will or will not be a change in the use of Essendon. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There have been discussions in depth with Victorian Government representatives who in turn keep in touch with Statutory Authorities and Municipalities adjacent to the new Melbourne Airport. The policy has been formulated based on the philosophy of co-ordinating the design and operation of the airport and land use zoning nearby. In summary the following are the 7 principles which have been agreed to date and are being applied to the maximum practical degree: 
As land use planning is basically of benefit in the longer term it is reasonable to use a long term NEF, e.g. 1983, when air traffic has built up but also when some noise benefits have accrued from quite engine developments. However, it should be accepted that there will be areas which are temporarily noisier during the intervening period. 
Consideration is limited to the 25 Noise Exposure Forecast (NEF) contour and above. Below that NEF level, at 20 NEF, for example, the contours are so imprecise as to have limited meaning for planning purposes. 
Between 25 and 30 NEF retain existing non-residential zoning but permit areas which are currently zoned as residential to continue to be developed in that form. However, where it is good planning to revise a 25-30 NEF residential zoning, as part of an adjacent 30+ NEF re-zoning to a more noise compatible use, then bracket the 2 areas and re-zone the both. It is noted that 'green belts', perhaps with sporting facilities, are particularly appropriate in these areas. 
At above 30 NEF preclude being re-zoned to residential those existing areas which are now residential. 
At about 30 NEF, where there is a residential zoning which has not been so far used as such, re-zone it to non-residential, namely rural or industrial or some other zoning which is favoured by the State or Territorial Planning Authority and which remains compatible with aircraft noise nuisance. 
At above 30 NEF permit existing reasonably well developed residential areas to be filled in' but seriously consider re-zoning those areas when it is timely for their redevelopment. (One alternative here, which more recently is being sponsored by the Brisbane City Council, is a new building regulation, which will permit 20 per cent to 25 per cent additional flat units or apartments for a given area of land, where that land is at or above 30 NEF and provided that re-developers undertake to soundproof and air-condition the new building. This not only substitutes flats or apartments for homes which are not sound-proofed in these areas but it also takes advantage of the fact that flat dwellers spend little time outside in the garden as compared with home owners. The financial encouragement is that the money saved in land quota per flat unit or apartment can be spent on sound-proofing and air-conditioning and so there should be no loss in return on investment.) 
Give maximum publicity to noise levels at above 25 NEF by showing the contours on town plans displayed in State and Territorial Planning and Local Government offices and by endorsing town planning certificates with an advisory note along the lines of Attention is drawn to the possibility of aircraft noise in this area and further enquiries should be made.' In addition, wherever there is a public road along the airport boundary display the type of notice which is on the southern boundary of Melbourne Airport. 
I saw a copy of a Press release issued by my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation regarding a study which had been undertaken by certain personnel in the Academy of Science. I may say that Australia should feel proud of the fact that it was the first country to undertake this special work, and many complimentary comments have been received from countries overseas in relation to it. I do not know whether the honourable member has had an opportunity to study the report, but it is available for sale or, in special circumstances, perhaps we could obtain a copy for him to peruse. It is a most interesting study and one which will be of great value to the industry as a whole. The position in relation to the operation of commercial supersonic aircraft is that investigations are being made in quite a number of countries into different aspects of their operation. We must remember that there is an abundance of experience with supersonic military aircraft on which to draw. Even in Australia we have operations of supersonic military aircraft and we know by experience the limitations associated with their operations. Naturally this information is available to the Department of Civil Aviation. 
I can assure the House that many investigations are going on in Australia in relation to the Concorde. The position at the present time is that options have been taken by Qantas Airways Ltd on 4 Concorde aircraft, but no decision has yet been made as to whether the purchases will be firmed. It may be some months yet before it is necessary to do that. In the meantime every possible assistance is being given by scientists in this country. As had been mentioned, already one study has been carried out. Information collated from studies being undertaken overseas is being made readily available to the Department of Civil Aviation. I can assure the honourable member, without making any commitment regarding his suggestion which I shall refer to my colleague in another place, that everything possible is being done to study the ultimate effects, if any, which this may have on the community or on the environment. 
I did make a statement on this matter outside the House, and also, as the honourable member is fully aware, a statement was made in the House - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Extensive surveys of the type mentioned have not been made although individual companies may have undertaken surveys of this kind on limited areas when investigating the feasibility of specific wood chip export projects. The development of the wood chip export industry in Australia has been based on existing forests consisting substantially of trees which are suitable for pulp manufacture but not suitable for sawlog production. As there are forests of this type not yet being utilised the demand for wood chips has not prompted extensive surveys of marginal land, although government forestry agencies in planning their normal level of afforestation would have made surveys of marginal land in some areas. 
In 1968 an official technical mission sponsored by the Australian Forestry Council was sent to Japan to inquire into the Japanese pulp and paper industry in relation to potential supplies from Australia. This mission made estimates of the total pulpwood requirements of the Japanese pulp and paper industry for years up until 1975. In addition agencies of the Japanese Government and the Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations have made estimates of total Japanese demand for various years. 
Forecasts of the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry approximately coincide with the next 10 year and 20 year periods and indicate that demand of industry for pulpwood will exceed the supply of indigenous wood by 27,600,000 cubic metres in 1980 and by 55,440,000 cubic metres in 1990. 
The surveys indicate that there are very favourable prospects for Australia to increase the quantity of eucalypt wood chips exported to Japan in the long term particularly those species which are of light colour and low density. However, Australia's share of Japan's future requirements is difficult to assess because of the aspirations of other countries which have shown interest in trading in wood chips with Japan and because of possible technological developments in the pulp and paper industry. In addition Japan proposes to undertake joint afforestation projects in foreign countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
If a request for assistance with a study is received from the New South Wales Government, it will be given due consideration. 
Summer School on Reactor Physics, Mathematics and Computers (Question No. 5157) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sixty-four high school students attended the Summer School of Reactor Physics, Mathematics and Computers at Lucas Heights during January 1972. 
The school was exploratory in nature to determine how best to employ the Atomic Energy Commission's resources to give secondary school students some insight into how mathematics and computers are used in scientific research. Invitations were therefore limited to Sydney Metropolitan government and private secondary schools. The students were selected from some 300 applicants. 
and (4) Arising from the experience of the school, consideration is being given to the best form for possible future schools, but as yet there are no plans to continue or extend the course. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the River Murray Waters Act 1915-1970, I present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971; together with the Commission's financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements, statements of gaugings and diversions during the year, furnished on behalf of the governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
Minister for National Development) (5.28) - We have listened to speeches from the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  raising matters of great importance in relation to the 2-airline policy. They have taken rather a strange stance. Although supporting what we may term in the general sense the private enterprise system, at the same time indicating to the House that they demand to know what is being done and what action is being taken, they have not told us exactly what they would do in these circumstances. It would be interesting to know whether they would take positive action of a legislative nature or in some other form to halt the present discussions or negotiations between Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. Would they act contrary to what was said by the honourable member for Newcastle during a debate in this place a couple of weeks ago when he said that he supported the 2-airline policy, and revert to full nationalisation of the airlines system in Australia? Those matters are not made clear. It would be interesting to know where the Opposition stands in relation to them. 
My colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in this House, indicated clearly that in some respects legislation is already in operation in a number of States and in the Commonwealth Territories to protect a company's shareholders rights in relation to takeovers. He referred also to protection under the Banks (Shareholdings) Act. In the areas of television and radio broadcosting the acquisition of control by foreign interests has been excluded by statute. He referred to these matters. In addition to this, it is well known that the Government has acted in particular cases to preserve Australian ownership and control of enterprises which for special reasons of national interest or importance could not be permitted to fall into foreign hands. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  referred to the fact that matters of this nature are being considered in relation to the revision taking place under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. I can assure the House that some announcement will be made regarding this matter in the near future. 
However the existence of Commonwealth guarantees in the present airlines agreement does not in itself present a case for legislation on ownership, because the mortgages which the Commonwealth holds are on aircraft operated by Ansettt Transport Industries and it is the protection of Commonwealth funds that is important. I think that this matter has been stressed by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean). 
The present takeover bid by Thomas Nationwide Transport for the share capital for Ansett Transport Industries is, I suppose one could say, prima facie a business transaction within the freely competitive economic environment. Parliament can be assured that the Government will take all steps necessary to ensure the continued successful operation of the 2-airline policy. The matter of ownership and control of the private sector of the 2-airline system will in no way be allowed to compromise the high standard of safety and operational efficiency which now exists in the Australian industry. The Department of Civil Aviation will continue to exercise its normal close scrutiny over these aspects. 
All that can be said, of course, with certainty at this stage is that the Government - and I have stated this in the House before; it has been stated by my colleagues - is keeping a careful watch on the present deveopments to ensure that the national interests are safeguarded. The franchise granted by the Government to Ansett Transport Industries is one which permits the company to play its role as the private enterprise sector of the 2-airline system. While the company enjoys undoubted benefits from this franchise, it also accepts significant responsibilities to provide safe, regular and efficient air services. The company's record in meeting these responsibilities, I think everyone will agree, has been impressive, and I am sure that we all are confident that this will continue to be the case. 
Without making any judgment on the merits or otherwise of the present takeover proposal, it could be said as a general principle that changes in shareholdings and control of a company are not necessarily disadvantageous. For example, the purchase of the former Australian National Airways by ATI facilitated the continuation of the 2-airline system and the growth of a strong domestic airline industry. Also, the current takeover move has led to undertakings by both parties that separate airline accounts will be published. I know that the honourable member for Newcastle perhaps will be happy to hear that because this was one point which he raised during a debate in this House a couple of weeks ago. I think that this is one thing that has emerged from the present situation. 
The guarantees issued with respect to ATI loans have been essential for the success of the 2-airline policy. They have facilitated overseas loans for aircraft on more favourable terms than would otherwise have been available, and this has, of course, benefited Australia as a whole, not only ATI itself. The rights of the Commonwealth in relation to these loans are not affected adversely by any takeover of ATI. The only guarantees given to the company by the Government are in respect of loans raised by the company to purchase front line aircraft to match similar aircraft purchased by Trans-Australian Airlines with loan funds raised by the Government on its behalf. The Government in effect guarantees the repayment of loans in the event that ATI, as the borrower, defaults in its obligation. I am happy to report to the House that in respect of all loans raised in the past there has not been any requirement for the Government guarantee to be called up. Of course, I think we can all be confident that this situation will continue. The Government is closely watching the current position to ensure that the guarantees given by the Commonwealth for loans raised by ATI to cover jet aircraft purchases are not prejudiced in any way. 
The Opposition has inferred in some way - and I think I read about this in the Press - to the bogey of an unemployment threat to the many employees of Ansett Transport Industries. But whatever the outcome of the present bid for the control and ownership of ATI, it is clear that the same skilled operational and technical staff will be needed to run the airline. The management of TNT has stated publicly that staff redundancy, if it occurred at all, would be of a minor nature only. The Government will certainly watch the situation closely to see that the interests of staff members of both airlines are protected. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in the House earlier this afternoon in reply to a question, the Government will not permit any foreign takeover of a private enterprise sector of Australia's 2-airline system. Nor will it permit any action which might result in foreign control of ATI. 
I think we should reject out of hand the inferences that have been made by the Opposition that somehow or other Australia's 2-airline policy is in jeopardy as a result of the present negotiations. As I said before, the Government is determined to see that the 2-airline policy continues. I am happy to know that the Opposition again today has indicated that it supports that policy which has given Australia a safe, modern, competitive and efficient domestic airline system which by any standard is one of the best in the world. I am sure that Australians can be proud of it, as many people overseas are perhaps jealous of it. 
We have seen the 2-airline policy maintain stability in a domestic aviation industry faced with strong pressures generated by a period of vigorous expansion. When we look back over the history of the 2- airline system in Australia we can say in general terms that it has indeed been successful. There are problems associated with its operation and these have been highlighted in recent months, but certainly they are matters of a minor nature. As a genera] policy the 2-airline policy is a good one and the Government is determined to see that it is maintained in the future. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Ansett Airlines gave serious consideration to the modification of the aircraft in Australia but reached the conclusion after consultation with Lockheed, the manufacturer of the Electra, that the cost of under-taking the work locally would be approximately double the cost of modification by that company in the United States. The additional cost would have arisen from the need to purchase an engineering package specially prepared by the American company and the highly specialised tooling required to accomplish the modification. 
The Government was aware of the proposal by Ansett Airlines to have its aircraft modified in the United States and took a close interest in the matter. Because the modification of the aircraft seemed to present an opportunity for work to flow to Australian industry a number of firms were referred to Ansett Airlines with a view to their involvement in the project. The decision to have the work performed in the United States was taken for the reason indicated in answer to Part 2 of the Question. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
Details of licence applications made by TransAustralia Airlines since 30th April .1970 and the results of the applications are as follows: 
The question of the closure of, firstly, one mine and now a second mine has been raised with me in this House by the honourable member for Macarthur, the honourable member for Cunningham and now by the honourable member for Hughes. Of course, this matter is one of great seriousness to the area concerned. When we received advice that there was a possibility of the closure of these 2 mines we did, through the Joint Coal Board, start some inquiries, and also I took the opportunity to discuss the matter with my colleague, the Minister for Mines in New South Wales where, of course, the principal responsibility for production lies. But the overall position in relation to the production of coal in New South Wales and Queensland is a matter that is entirely within the control of the States concerned and, of course, there is an oversight by the Joint Coal Board in New South Wales and the Queensland Coal Board. 
This matter having been raised, I did study the situation regarding long term contracts and I found that there is not the element of competition that perhaps has been suggested by some of the Press statements that we have read although, obviously, costs associated with open cut production are lower than those associated with deep underground mining. There are some problems which are being considered at the present time by both the New South Wales and Queensland governments. But I know that there is close consultation between the Joint Coal Board in New South Wales and the Queensland Coal Board on these matters. There is also, I think, fairly close consultation between the Ministers concerned in New South Wales and Queensland. 
Certainly we have had discussions with the governments concerned. The Commonwealth did undertake a short time ago a survey of the total coal reserves in Australia and I published the results of that survey fairly recently. We have also conducted another study of the present overall situation in the coal industry and I have stated publicly that in the very near future I will be submitting for consideration by the Government on an information basis a paper relating to the present situation in the industry. But at the present time the whole problem relates to the overall export situation. There has been a downturn in steel production throughout the world and this has affected our exports of coal, principally to Japan. The situation is being watched very closely. We are in constant consultation with the departments concerned and will certainly do everything within our power to see that the situation is improved in the future. In addition to this I may say, for the information of the House, that the honourable member has asked me to meet a deputation from the Miners Federation this afternoon on this very matter and at a later hour during the afternoon we certainly will be discussing the matter further. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Complaints have been received at different times from concessionaires about the siting of the shops at the northern end of the terminal building. The complaints refer generally to the distance of these shops from the main passenger flow and the inadequacy of identification signs. No better locations are available, however, without causing difficulties to those facilities more directly related to the processing of passengers through the terminal. Directory boards and additional signs are now included in planned additional works to be carried out by the Department of Works. 
The pharmacy is situated with the other shops in the northern end of the terminal to which I have referred. A pharmacy does not normally depend to any great extent on impulse buying but, rather, is the type of facility which customers will usually seek out. 
All airline and Department of Civil Aviation offices on the second floor are air-conditioned together with the Trans-Australia Airways, Ansett and Customs offices and V.I.P. rooms on the ground floor and Pan-Am offices in the annexe off the concourse. 
I appreciate the interest of the Leader of the Opposition in this, matter. The document to which he refers was a confidential document which, at my direction, my Department has prepared - I think, quite rightly so - to make some assessment of the background of the whole, of the situation in relation to our naturalresources and try to make some projections ahead. Naturally, a document of this type is not fully useful from a Government point of view unless it deals with a wide variety of policy matters. Policy matters,  when you get into the field of the produc-tion and marketing of our - natural resources, cover quite a number of Commonwealth departments and also refer to matters within the responsibility of State governments. Certainly the document is an important one. I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that it is of a very substantial size because it covers such a wide variety of subjects. 
The position at the present time is still virtually the same as the position I indicated to the Leader of the Opposition on the previous occasion. Because, of the wide ranging policy implications there is a tremendous amount of work to be done in this field, and quite a number of matters are still to be finalised by the. Committee that has been set up to investigate the various matters that have been brought up in the paper. Of course, I cannot indicate the departments concerned, because these committees of Government, based as they are on authority of the Cabinet, are all of a confidential nature and report only to the Governments. So I am afraid I cannot disclose the information as to the departments concerned. The Leader of the Opposition might be able to make a guess as to some of the departments that are involved. I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that it is my desire as quickly as possible, and bearing in mind the amount of work and the involvement with so many different departments and other governments, to try to produce a document which I think will be a co-ordinated approach to the future of our natural resource development. I may say that Australia is not the only country that has this in mind. I am happy to say that we originated the idea, but I know that Canada is following very closely the approach we have here. 
I may correct that and say that the Canadian report has not yet been published, and it may be some time before the document is published. We are consulting with Canada very closely in relation to this matter. The United States of America also has a similar approach now, to try to co-ordinate their policy in relation to their natural resources. 
I appreciate the assistance from the Leader of the Opposition when he refers to Japan, but Japan, of course, is in the reverse position. (Honourable members interjecting) 
I entirely agree with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member. Whether airlines use Tullamarine Airport in Melbourne or Sydney Airport is a matter for them to decide, having regard to their schedules and the way in which they wish to operate. They make their applications to the Department of Civil Aviation and these may be granted after consideration. It is fairly difficult for the Department to exercise influence on the airlines to terminate flights at any particular airport. These matters are decided having regard to traffic volume at the centres concerned and the way in which the airlines service the various States and the nation as a whole. In view of the interest that the honourable member takes in this matter, which 1 know is of vital importance to him, I will see that the details of his question are referred to my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation, in another place. 
I am sure that we all agree with the honourable member in bts reference to the qualities of the Murray Cod. It certainly would be a tragedy if there were any loss of numbers of these fish to an extent which would affect our gastronomic enjoyment of them in the future. However, as the honourable member knows, when I visited his electorate a short time ago we had the opportunity of speaking to many people in the region and it was not emphasised at the time that there was any deficiency in numbers of fish. Rather, the emphasis was placed on the quality of fish in that region. As the matter is under investigation by the State departments and as we have not yet had the matter officially drawn to our attenion, it might be better to wait for a report from the State departments to come to hand. However, I will see that this matter is discussed at the next meeting of the River Murray Commission. As I have said we will await advice from the State departments. When that stage is reached we will be able to consider whether any further action is required. 
This is a matter that would take me some considerable time to answer in detail. I certainly would not want to transgress a previous ruling of  Mr Speaker  by doing that. 
 I move: 
That recommendations Nos 1 to 10 contained in the report of the Standing Orders Committee dated 20th March 1972 be agreed to. 
That other decisions of the Committee Nos 1 to 5 be endorsed. 
That the amendments of the Standing Orders and changes of practice adopted by this resolution be effective from and including the next sitting. 
The Committee's report covers a number of matters which have been referred to it over a period of time. It has recommended changes in the Standing Orders and procedures of the House to cover the functioning in the House of Assistant Ministers; to alter the time allocated for debating a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders; to streamline and improve the handling of petitions; and to alter certain existing practices in relation to the Publications Committee and the use of academic and other titles. These are covered in recommendations Nos 1 to 10 of the report. In addition, the Committee has decided against any changes in the Standing Orders and current procedures in relation to a number of other matters. These decisions are summarised on page 9 of the Committee's report. 
It is not my intention to deal in detail with the Committee's report. The Committee has looked thoroughly and carefully at all aspects of the matters put before it. The report has the concurrence of all members of the Committee and will, I hope, meet with the ready agreement of the House. I might mention here in passing that there are a number of other matters which have been brought to the Committee but which it has not yet had opportunity to consider the report upon. 
I suggest that it may suit the House for the question to be divided in order that separate questions may be put on the Committee's recommendations. If this is acceptable I suggest that recommendations Nos 1 to 6 of paragraph (a), which deal with the functions of Assistant Ministers, be taken together, that recommendations Nos 7 to 10 of paragraph (a), which deal with a number of separate matters, be then taken individually, and that paragraphs (b) and (c) be taken separately. 
 I want to refer very briefly to the amendment which has been moved because I submitted this report to the House on behalf of the Standing Orders Committee. It is a fact that a number of items which were considered by the Committee were altered or amended and have been submitted in the final form which appears in the report. But there was quite a considerable amount of give and take in relation to matters which were put before the Committee. As the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  mentioned a short lime ago in relation to the question of the suspension of Standing Orders, I myself believe that perhaps the time allowed for each  speaker  should have been reduced and that there should have been fewer speakers. But the Committee came down with a majority decision on that matter, so 1 fully support the Committee's recommendation. 
The question of petitions was discussed at very great length by the Standing Orders Committee. As I have said, there was a lot of give and take in relation to the various matters considered by the Committee. Before the discussion on this question was concluded, the point was raised as to whether petitions could be referred to a Minister. This proposition has never been part of the Standing Orders of this House. But the proposition was brought forward and the Committee believed that it would be a distinct advance on the previous procedure, and I think that the House, including the honourable member for Corio, will agree that it is a distinct advance on the procedures contained in the present Standing Orders. I support the recommendation that has been made by the Committee in this regard. 
After a matter has been considered by the Standing Orders Committee, which comprises members from both sides of the House, the Committee submits a report for consideration by the House, and each individual member has an opportunity to study the proposals and to make up his own mind as to whether he will support them. I think that when a matter has been considered like this, if there is to be any further change made to the Standing Orders, the suggested change should be considered by the Standing Orders Committee in the normal way. If the matter is of a major nature, as is the proposal submitted by the honourable member for Corio, I think that the Standing Orders Committee should consider the matter carefully before it is presented to this House. 
I cannot accept the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Corio. I support entirely the proposals put forward by the Standing Orders Committee. I do that on the basis that I have certain convictions about a number of other matters, but I have had to give way on those matters and I support the Committee's recommendations to this House. I made certain suggestions to the Standing Orders Committee but they were not accepted. Consequently, as I have submitted the Committee's report to the House, I support the report because it has been submitted by the Committee as a whole. We are considering a suggestion about which no prior warning was given to the House. I think that the suggestion should be considered first by the Standing Orders Committee, which is the normal procedure, and I could recommend that this should be done in this case. 
I can only repeat what 1 said earlier in the debate, that is, that while I appreciate the intentions of my friend the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  this matter has been examined carefully by the Standing Orders Committee which consists of senior representatives of both sides of the House. They have come up with a report which I submitted to the Parliament. I feel that in the circumstances we would be ill advised to vary the recommendations of that Committee without the Committee's having the opportunity to study again the points which have been raised. So, as an honourable member in this House, I suggest that we should support the recommendations of the Committee. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the amendment seconded? 
 I was trying to recall the background to this minor amendment. I think the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  will be aware that the Government Publishing Service has been transferred from the Department of the Treasury to the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and therefore the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  no longer has the ministerial responsibility in relation to this matter. It is covered by the term 'Minister' and that is the only reference which applies in this case. 
The only comment 1 can make in relation to this is that if anyone feels that he is entitled to use a title he will, under this proposal, have the opportunity of submitting his proposed to the staff of the House who will then make a recommendation in relation to it. This, of course, is a matter that would come up for individual consideration at the time. There are obvious titles that would quite simply be used and in fact al the present time some are being used. This is an extension of the present system to conform with the procedures of the House of Commons. This is the reason for the recommendation. I point out that this matter was considered by the Standing Orders Committee, on which the representation included the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  and they had not objection to this recommendation being made. In fact, from memory, it was a unanimous decision by the Committee to make this recommendation to the House. But as to the subject matter raised by the honourable member, this will be a matter for individual consideration at the time in accordance with submissions made by an honourable member. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The question is: That other decisions of the Committee, numbered 1 to 5, be endorsed as provided for in paragraph (b).' 
J 3072/72 -  R.  - [65 
I understand that the motion is to be amended slightly and I believe that the context of it will be that the matter, subject to other considerations, be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee. 1 think we would be quite happy to accept a recommendation to that effect. This is the procedure that has been suggested: If matters relating to Standing Orders come up for consideration, the Standing Orders Committee is the right body to consider them. 
Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  referred to 'the session'. I do not want to be smart, but they seem to refer to the time from Tuesday 28th February this year. However, this session commenced on 3rd March 1970. I want to clarify whether they are dealing with the correct session, because we are only in the second session now. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Question, as amended, agreed to. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Bryant)  - by leave - agreed to: 
That  so  much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of an amendment to the motion of the Leader of the House to include an amendment of the standing orders relating to the adjournment of the House each sitting day. 
1 give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Defence making a ministerial statement relating to the invasion of South Vietnam by North Vietnam and its security implications for Australia. 
 The comments made today by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  were notable for their lack of fact. I would like to put the record straight in relation to the background to this position. The Government has long had a clear and very active national oil exploration policy, lt has taken the view that it should seek to bring substantially to an end our historical dependence on overseas sources of supply for crude oil and should aim at a situation where, as far as practicable, our needs for such products as motor spirit,, automotive distillate and aviation fuel are produced by Australian refiners from Australian crude oil. To this end the Government has developed over the years a number of measures or techniques to encourage the exploration for and development of the petroleum resources of this country. 
Briefly, they consist of, firstly, provision, through the Bureau of Mineral Resources of my Department, of the basic geological and geophysical survey services, on a national basis, which are needed by the oil search industry to base its own more particular and concentrated exploration for petroleum deposits; secondly, subsidisation of the exploration for petroleum under a legislative scheme introduced in 1957, involving a Commonwealth expenditure, as at last month, of over SI 17m; thirdly, provision of special income tax concessions to petroleum search companies and investors in these companies, and, fourthly, the assurance through the Commonwealth's constitutional powers over imports and exports of a guaranteed access to the Australian market for all producers of Australian crude oil - and, as a concomitant to this, a guarantee of the fixing of an appropriate price for that crude. My colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  will take part in this debate and he will develop this particular theme which is of great importance as an incentive to the industry. 
It is quite clear that the Government recognises the importance of financial incentives and the need for periodical review of the level of these incentives. Two recent examples of this were contained in a statement I made as recently as 12th March last. I announced that the rate of on-shore petroleum exploration subsidy for geophysical operation had been increased by the Government from 30 per cent to 50 per cent and that the Government had reviewed the previous practice under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-69. Under this, circles were drawn around successful wells and producing fields, resulting in the withdrawal of subsidy for operation within those circles. The Government decided that subsidy would now be paid on approved operations in those areas in the future. On the basis of the current level of exploration activity it is estimated that these changes alone will involve the Government in an additional S3. 3m per annum in the subsidy scheme. The industry will also benefit from the restoration of the 20 per cent tax allowance for new equipment, which I think we are all completely confident will result in notable industrial expansion and the creation of more jobs. 
Then there is the proposal by the Government, as outlined by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on 10th April, to vary the operation of section 26(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act so that profits or losses arising from the sale of shares which have been held for 18 months or more will not be taken into account for taxation purposes. This will have an immediate and important attraction for potential oil company investors. Even though the direct encouragement of this Government has, in part, resulted to date in Australia's supplying approximately 65 per cent of our requirements, it has no intention of resting on this situation. As the honourable member for Dawson mentioned, we will shortly reach a figure of approximately 70 per cent of our requirements without further discoveries being made. We appreciate that further discoveries of crude oil are necessary for Australia to retain a high degree of self-sufficiency, and we will continue to implement those policies that will help bring this about. 
Australian reserves of commercially recoverable crude oil amounted to 1,854 million barrels at the beginning of this year compared with 1,750 million barrels at the beginning of 1971. The latest figure includes 200 million barrels estimated to be recoverable largely from the Tirrawarra accumulation in the Cooper Basin, South Australia, and not previously included in the national inventory of petroleum resources. It also includes a revised figure of 84 million barrels for the Tuna offshore field in Bass Strait, previously estimated to contain 70 million barrels. Bass Strait reserves, including Tuna, now stand at slightly more than 1,452 million barrels, or about 95 per cent of the reserve as estimated at the end of 1971. And, of course, the promising signs to date from Kingfish lend further hope for the future. 
In Western Australia, reserves at Barrow Island have been reduced by about one third to about 138 million barrels, while reserves at the Moonie, Alton and Bennett fields of South Queensland are just under 4 million barrels. Production of Australian crude oil for delivery to refineries in 1971 totalled 107.7 million barrels. The cumulative Australian production of crude oil to the end of December last year was 221 million barrels. In my view this is an excellent performance in a country once considered by some experts to be too old to contain oil. 
In addition to the figures I have quoted for liquid crude it is necessary to have a full appreciation of the tremendous part natural gas will play not only economically but also industrially in our future. It may assist to a very substantial degree in the export field in the future. Very substantial deposits have been discovered in Bass Strait, in the north west of Western Australia, in the Gidgealpa-Moomba areas of South Australia, and in the Palm ValleyMereenie areas of the Centre. There are prospects of deposits being discovered in the Bonaparte Gulf. There are also good prospects of discoveries in other parts of Australia. Those discoveries and prospective discoveries all indicate that natural gas, in addition to liquid crude, will play a very important part in the future of our petroleum resources. 1 thought 1 should mention that because one cannot ignore the situation as far as gas is concerned. In some respects - in certain remote areas - natural gas will play just as important a part as liquid crude will play in the more highly industrialised centres. However, having said with such a degree of confidence that there are good prospects for the future, I would again warn that we cannot afford to be complacent in other areas. The overall growth rate in primary fuel consumption is forecast to increase by 80 per cent between 1970-71 and 1979-80. This represents in annual growth rate of 6.8 per cent. 
I should like now very briefly to summarise current exploration incentives so that what could be classified as the travesty of this motion today can be highlighted. I wish to deal first of all with the subsidy. For on-shore exploration drilling it is 30 per cent and for geophysical operations it is 50 per cent of the acceptable costs for approved operations. That is by direct subsidy. Off-shore operations are approved for subsidy only if there is an Australian interest. I was interested to learn that the Opposition apparently considers that this should be changed, although shortly after saying that it said that we are handing our resources over to foreign interests. It is a protection for Australian interests and has always been regarded as such. The amount of the subsidy is related to the extent of that interest up to the maximum of 30 per cent, which is payable when the Australian interest in a company operating off-shore is 51 per cent or more. I think we all know the significance of that as a policy. While the prime purpose of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act is to stimulate company exploration, a supplementary purpose is to make publicly available information on subsidised operations. Our knowledge of the sedimentary basins has thus been greatly enhanced. The availability of this information has been an important factor, particularly in the early years of the operation of the scheme, in stimulating and maintaining the level of petroleum exploration. 
I turn now to the field of taxation concessions. I have already referred to some of these concessions. Special provisions are included in the Income Tax Assessment Act to assist petroleum explorers because of the high risk nature of the industry. These provisions extend to shareholders who are the main source of funds for most Australian companies. As to the current taxation provisions, allowable capital expenditure on prospecting or mining for petroleum is deductible from income derived from the sale of petroleum obtained in Australia until the expenditure has been fully recouped. Dividends paid by a petroleum mining company are exempt from tax in the hands of shareholders up to the amount of its capital expenditure on petroleum exploration and development. The cost of pipelines or facilities used for the transport of petroleum between an oil or gas field and a refinery or other terminal is deductible over 10 years. Resident and nonresident shareholders in petroleum mining companies are entitled to deductions for income tax purposes on one-third of all calls paid to such a company, provided the company declares that it has or will expend the call moneys on exploration. Residents of Australia or Papua New Guinea may be entitled to immediate deductions for subscriptions to share capital used in prospecting or mining for petroleum in Australia or Papua New Guinea. 
There are also exemptions from sales tax in relation to goods purchased by enterprises engaged in the mining industry. These include activities in prospecting for oil. The most important exemption relates to machinery, implements and apparatus for use in that industry either in carrying out mining operations or in the treatment of the products of those operations. As my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise, will tell honourable members, there are also certain exemptions from customs duty on materials and goods used for petroleum exploration purposes. As I mentioned before, there is a guaranteed market and price. The Minister for Customs and Excise will make some special reference to that matter during his contribution to the debate. 
In addition to all of those types of incentives, both direct and indirect, basic studies are undertaken by the Government. The various incentives are backed by direct participation in basic scientific and technical studies that are carried out within the Department of National Development. The Bureau of Mineral Resources of the Department carries out regional geological and geophysical surveys and experimental geophysical work. The results of those surveys are available to industry. In many cases they form the basis of the exploration programmes of private companies. The Bureau carries out studies of all the available information in various basins throughout Australia and publishes the results. The work extends off-shore, where work is currently proceeding on a $3m geophysical survey of the continental slope from a depth of 200 metres to between 3,000 metres and 5,000 metres. The Division of National Mapping in my Department also carries out basic surveys which support the efforts of private enterprise to develop Australia. As an example, the first part of a complete bathymetric survey of Australia's continental shelf to a depth of 200 metres was commenced in July 1971. That survey will cost $18m over the next 13 years. 
My lime is running out, but before concluding 1 want to say that it is interesting to note the total expenditure on petroleum exploration in Australia is continuing at the rate of $90m to S95m a year and that the total spent in Australia to date is over S800m. I am sure that we are all completely confident that further oil discoveries will be made both on-shore and off-shore in Australia. I conclude on the note that I feel 
I need say no more as I believe that T have completely answered the case put up by the Opposition. The case for the Government in encouraging oil exploration is one which will, of course, continue to be reviewed from time to time in the future. 
I move:  That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
This Bill provides for the continuation of financial assistance for a further 5 years from 1st July 1971 to the States by the Commonwealth, for the purpose of expanding the rate of softwood plantings and so assist in meeting our needs for forest products. As honourable members are aware the States have for the past 5 years been assisted financially to the extent of $18m by the Commonwealth to expand softwood planting in accordance with the Softwood Forestry Agreements Act 1967. The States have been enabled to increase the area of Government-owned softwood plantations from about 528,000 acres as at 31st March 1966 to 793,000 acres as at 31st March 1971. In addition the area of softwood plantation in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory increased from 27,959 acres to 36,546 acres during the same period. 
The assistance provided by the Commonwealth to the States in the first programme was by way of long-term loan funds provided on very favourable terms. The funds, which are repayable over 25 years, are free of interest during the first 10 years after the date of each advance. Repayments, which are geared to the cash flow pattern of a forestry investment where there is no financial return until first thinnings, also commence 10 years after each advance. It is estimated that, during the second 5-year programme, the Commonwealth will make available some $21m to cover the proportion of State government planting that it has agreed to finance up until 30th June 1976. These loan funds will be provided on the same generous terms and conditions as for the first programme. 
Honourable members will be aware that the total level of planting programmed for the second 5-year period covered by this Bill is 273,400 acres, which compares favourably with the previous 5-year programme of 256,800 acres, although, by comparison with the last year of the first programme the annual rate of planting will be reduced from 58,500 acres to 54,680 acres. The area to be financed by the Commonwealth under the provisions of this Bill over the 5 years is 125,000 acres, compared with the total of 113,100 acres financed during the first agreement. The Government gave careful consideration to the level of planting in the second programme and decided that the total annual level of softwood planting should continue at about 75,000 acres. Of this total the State government's share would be 58,000 acres, that of the Department of the Interior in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory some 2,000 to 3.000 acres, with private forests expected to contribute 15,000 acres. 
The purpose of Commonwealth financial assistance is to enable the States to increase their rate of softwood plantings beyond what they could support from their own resources. The Commonwealth proposed initially that the States should finance 33,600 acres themselves and the Commonwealth provide financial assistance to plant 24,400 acres. This represented a modest growth in State-financed planting over the first agreement and seemed reasonable in the light of the continued expansion the States achieved on their own accord in years preceding the first agreement and of the increase in capital funds that have been made available to the States over recent years. However, following discussions with the States a base-year acreage of 29,680 acres was agreed to by the States and the Commonwealth raised its level of assistance to 25,000 acres. 
I should point out that although the Commonwealth and Stales jointly decide upon both the total level of planting for the 5-year programme and its distribution between States, the distribution of planting within any State is a State responsibility. In making the offer to the States for the second programme the Commonwealth, in an effort to assist afforestation planning by the States, has agreed to consider the question of support for a further 5-year programme before the second programme terminates. Should the Commonwealth agree to finance a third 5-year programme, however, it could not be assumed that the present financial arrangements will be continued. 
The agreement to be signed between the Commonwealth and the States containing the terms and conditions of the second programme, although similar to the first programme, has some important amendments which I would like to mention. These amendments result from experience gained during the operation of the first agreement. First, the method of calculation of financial assistance due to a State in any one year has been changed thereby avoiding the problem which arose because the planting year in forestry differs from the financial year. It is hoped this will make the calculation of financial assistance more flexible in the new programme. Secondly, a provision has been included providing for the State to carry forward to this second agreement approved over-planting and under-planting that, as the case may be, was incurred by the individual States during the first agreement. 
Thirdly, the agreement requires the States to seek approval to incorporate any above - or below - programmed plantings occurring in this second programme in the new assistance formula, within one year of the variation occurrings. This is important to ensure that the level of annual plantings should be as close as possible to that programmed. lt is a complex legal agreement and I consider these amendments will smooth out any of the administrative problems we became aware of in the first agreement as well as facilitate the transition from the first programme to the second. 
This scheme is one which has its genesis in the Australian Forestry Council. Although the scheme directly assists the States to increase their softwood resources, its final objective is to ensure timber is available for the forest industries based on these resources. It is estimated that in financial year 1970-71 Australian consumption of forest products was in excess of $900m and domestic production was $650m. This scheme will provide raw material for expansion and growth of Australian industry, and it is hoped that this will enable large, efficient, integrated industries to be established. At the same time it will provide employment in the forest and in forest industries thereby stimulating employment opportunities in rural areas; it will complement our existing resources of native forests and enable a wide range of forest products to be available to the community, and it will reduce our reliance on the import of forest products from overseas. The States are to be congratulated on their achievements in the first programme and the manner in which they undertook their task augurs well for a successful second programme. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I want to mention just one point before we adjourn, and that is that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  referred to a statement I made in the House. I did not make a statement. He later referred to an answer to a question. My remarks were by way of explanation of a matter that he raised. I subsequently discussed this matter with the Department of Civil Aviation. I do not retract in any way from the answer which I gave. I can only say that it does a grave disservice to Qantas Airways Ltd, which has established a high reputation, not only in this country but also throughout the world, if people endeavour publicly to destroy the high morale which still exists amongst its staff and within the management itself.  I  know that my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  had indicated that he wished to respond to other matters that have been raised tonight. Unfortunately the time set aside for the adjournment debate, in accordance with the normal arrangement which we have, has now expired.  I  know the Minister will seize another opportunity to respond  to  the points that have been raised. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.7 a.m. (Thursday). 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There is no requirement that property transfer in the Richmond or Somersby areas be notified to the Department of Civil Aviation and, in any case, no such transfers have been brought to the Department's attention. 
Banking: Interest Payments on Current Accounts  (Question No.  5196) 
1 know that the recent statement by the  President  of the United States in relation to the security of the aviation industry has been considered by my colleague in another place as well as by the Department of Civil Aviation. At the same time, I hesitate to give this matter too much publicity because members of this House, as well as many hundreds of thousands of Australians, travel constantly in aircraft. Perhaps, in such circumstances, it is not desirable to draw too much attention to these problems for obvious reasons. At the same time I can assure the House that the Department of Civil Aviation and the Australian aviation industry is well aware of the problem and that very tight security measures are in operation in Australia. In no circumstances would I convey publicly what those measures are because they would then no longer be security measures. But I give the assurance that the Department is well aware of the problem and has taken active steps, in conjunction with the industry, to see that the security measures are enforced. 
As the honourable member for the Northern Territory knows, some reserves of liquid petroleum and natural gas have been discovered at Mereenie, which is about 160 miles west of Alice Springs. So far the reserves are indicated reserves only. I have not made a practice of stating indicated reserves; I will state only proven reserves, so at this time we cannot indicate publicly the extent of the field. A consortium of 6 companies is involved in this area and it was only, I think, within the past fortnight that a consultant, who was engaged from overseas, had further discussions with the consortium and also with my Department. At the present time consideration is still being given to the various points that had been raised by the consortium in relation to the provision of a small refinery at Alice Springs to cater for the refining of products produced locally, but this involves also the complications of the Government's policy on the utilisation of Australian crude, our petroleum products subsidy scheme and the allocation of markets in various areas of Australia, as well as the actual cost and the final proven reserves in the area. I know that the consortium considered a decision some time ago to proceed with the very expensive programme of drilling to prove the area and also has decided to go ahead with a feasibility study. That study is continuing at the present time. I cannot give any indication when it will be completed but there is very close cooperation between the consortium of companies and my Department in this regard. 
-Perhaps 1 could answer the last part of the question first simply by saying yes, we must seek, where possible, markets for uranium in various forms and that is exactly what the producing companies are doing at the present time. The question gives me the opportunity to indicate to the House that there is in the uranium industry a building up of a greater degree of co-operation both on the production side - in the field of the provision of infrastructure - and in the field of marketing than perhaps in any other industry in Australia at the present time. This is being actively encouraged by the Government. My Department and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission have been in almost constant contact with the producing companies and prospective producing companies to try to bring this about, because we believe that there can be a tremendous advantage to the Australian industry if we can have established some form of orderly marketing system. On a number of occasions discussions have been held within the industry and between Government representatives and the industry within Australia. We participated in discussions which were held recently in Paris with other producing countries. As I have indicated in this House, I have had discussions with producing countries such as Canada and the United States. Also, we have had discussions at the official level with other producing countries such as South Africa and European countries. These discussions have been held in an endeavour to produce in the world industry some basic orderly approach for the future which will be to the ultimate benefit of the producing countries and the consuming countries. 
The letters of intent which have been reported to have been signed by Queensland Mines Ltd and the endeavours by the Peko-Wallsend company to obtain contracts overseas for uranium in some form - in the form of uranium oxide, U308, or in some other form - will, of course, be actively supported and encouraged by this Government. We have not yet had officially submitted to us for consideration, as will have to be done in accordance with the export controls that exist, the details of such proposed contracts. When they are submitted we will examine them very carefully with 2 things in mind: Firstly, the ultimate benefit to Australia in the long term future and, secondly, the need to ensure that at the same time the safeguard conditions are applied. 
I certainly had the opportunity to read the statement which had been put out by my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation. It stated that approval would be given for the visit of a Concorde aircraft to Australia in, I think, June, but of course I cannot indicate to the House what routes could be flown at supersonic speed over the land mass of Australia. That would have to be worked out by the Department of Civil Aviation, and an indication of the routes would be given before the aircraft arrived in Australia. Of course, most of the operations of commercial supersonic aircraft, if eventually they go into commercial operation to and from Australia, will be across water, as far as Australia is concerned. 
But I should like to draw attention to the fact that we talk about the operations of commercial supersonic aircraft as being something entirely new to Australia. It is a fact that military operations of a supersonic nature have taken place fairly extensively both for training purposes and also for moving aircraft out of Australia for operational purposes. There have been extensive operations of a supersonic nature over certain areas of Australia, as well as over water, although, of course, for obvious reasons I think that most of the operations take place in areas closest to the sea. But in view of the fact that the matter has been raised in this form by the honourable member, I will see that it is referred to my colleague in another place and that a suitable reply is obtained for him. 
 Mr Speaker- 
I am glad that you drew attention to that fact,  Mr Speaker,  because the question asked by the honourable member for Dawson related to the development of our resources off-shore. The whole of his question was based on that. The other matter raised was not substantive but had only some relevance. The question he asked related to the development of our resources off-shore which he stated was being inhibited. I would like to make the position clear. The development of our resources off-shore is not being inhibited at the present time. There is an arrangement in regard to the exploration for oil which, as the honourable member should know, is covered by the petroleum legislation. 
I am referring to the petroleum legislation at present. Exploration is proceeding without any inhibition under legislation agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States. Mineral development is in its early stages. I could expand on this considerably because on a previous occasion 1 indicated to the House the technical problems associated with mineral exploration. It is in its early stages and new techniques are being developed. I would hesitate to refer again to the use of a laser beam because on the last occasion that I did it provoked a lot of mirth. (Government supporters interjecting) 
This development work is proceeding in this field as fast in Australia as it is in any other country, and some of the techniques that we have developed for off-shore exploration for minerals are as good as, and in some cases are a little more advanced than, those in other countries. There is an arrangement between the States and the Commonwealth under which the States have authority to issue permits, and by agreement the States have indicated that they will advise the Commonwealth in relation to them, so the Commonwealth is kept informed of developments in this field. The present situation is that development in the petroleum and mineral fields is proceeding as fast as it can under the existing legislation, and I can assure the House that the question asked by the honourable member for Dawson is, to put it mildly, not based on any factual situation. There is no inhibition on our present exploration effort. 
The only comment I can make is that the subject is still under consideration. 
I mov e: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
T his Bill is introduced to seek authority tor the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to guarantee, on behalf of the Commonwealth, loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to finance the purchase of 4 Boeing 727 200 series aircraft. The Boeing 727-200 is a stretched version of the Boeing 727s currently used by Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines. Compared with the smaller model, it will carry 130 to 150 passengers instead of about 100. while providing the same high degree of comfort and speed of travel. More importantly, perhaps, the Boeing 727-200 is a better aircraft from the noise pollution point of view. Each of the 2 major airlines how has a front-line jet fleet consisting of 6 Boeing 727s and 12 DC9s, and further large aircraft will be needed to cater for the expected continuing traffic growth on the main trunk routes. The airlines have concluded that the larger Boeing 727 will best meet this need, because it offers good economy of operation, is compatible with the existing fleet units, and will enable them tocope with peak traffic demand. They presently see a requirement for each to introduce 4 of the Boeing 727-200s by the end of 1974. 
The Government has approved this proposal of the airlines. Subject to the passing of the necessary legislation, the Commonwealth will borrow on behalf of Trans-Austra!ia Airlines the loan funds required in financing its 4 aircraft. Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. for its part, has requested that the Commonwealth guarantee the loans which it raises for the same purpose, so that it can borrow on terms comparable with those available to the Government airline. Notwithstanding recent developments concerning shareholdings in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, the Government believes it is necessary, in the interests of the continued success of its 2-airline policy, for these guarantees to be given. and it thereforesubmits the present Bill. 
Ansett Transport Industries Ltd will borrow 80 per cent of thetotal costs of the 4 Boeing 727-200s plusassociated spares and flight equipment, financing other 20 per cent itself. Statedin terms of United States currency, these borrowings will amount to approximately$31m. equivalent to about $25. 7min Australian currency. The company does not expect that any difficulty will be experienced in raising the required loan funds from the ExportImport Bank of the United States and other sources in due course. The Bill now submitted contains the same general conditions which were approved by the Parliament in passing the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Act 1959. Before giving a guarantee for any loan, the Treasurer has to be satisfied that the moneys are borrowed  on  reasonable terms and conditions, that proper security is given to the Commonwealth over the aircraft and associated spares and equipment, and that undertakings are given by ATI on such matters as insurance, mortgages and export of the aircraft. The company is required to make available its financial records to an officer authorised by the Minister while any part of the loan remains unpaid. I commend the Bill to the  House. 
Debate (on motion by Crean) adjourned. 
This is a matter that I would have to discuss with my colleague in another place, but the Committee to which the honourable member refers was one which I set up when I' was Minister of Civil Aviation some years ago and I certainly appreciate the work that was done by the Committee at that time. The value of its report is still being appreciated by the Department of Civil Aviation despite the fact that the Committee submitted its final report some time ago. However, the Concorde and other supersonic commercial aircraft, when flying over built-up areas or approaching airports, do not operate supersonically. When the Concorde is on ils trial flight to Australia, perhaps next month, the operations, as has been indicated, will be only in an approved area. If the feasibility study of the Department of Civil Aviation works out satisfactorily the aircraft will fly through a corridor over the northern part of Australia which I believe will be 70 to 100 miles wide. That feasibility study is still being 

 Questions undertaken to determine whether that corridor would be suitable for supersonic operations. The approach of the aircraft to Sydney, which I think is the main concern of the honourable member, would be at subsonic speeds. The indications so far in relation to its operations, especially for trial purposes, when it is not operating at all up loading, are that the amount of perceived noise in decibels, which is how the sonic effect is recorded, close to airports would be no higher than that of the normal commercial jet operations. I do not know whether it would be necessary, with the knowledge that is available to the Department of Civil Aviation, to conduct any further investigation in relation to the sonic effect over built-up areas or areas adjacent to airports. Having said that, I will certainly refer the point that has been raised to my colleague in another place and I will let the honourable member have a reply at a later date. 
I have seen some public statements which have been attributed to Peko-Wallsend Ltd, which, of course, is associated with the Electrolytic Zinc Co. (A/ Asia) Ltd in the field of uranium marketing and the problems associated with it. The Peko area in the uranium province in the Northern Territory is perhaps the most substantial uranium area in Australia. We expect that the undertaking will be producing partly processed material from about 1977 onwards and will be in a position to meet contractual arrangements which it is hoped will be signed before that date. But associated with developments of this particular type there is an enormous capital expenditure. In the whole of the province area Australian as well as overseas capital is involved. 
At present all the companies that are concerned with uranium - the 3 companies in the Northern Territory, one in Western Australia and a possible one in South Australia - are examining the market situation. The position is fluid at the moment but as I stated recently, as a government we have been encouraging the producers to get together, in some cases in relation to infrastructure but particularly with respect to marketing arrangements. We feel that ultimately this will be of some advantage collectively to all the producers. My own Department is doing as much as possible to assist in these fields. As to the signing of contracts, there has been an indication that Queensland Mines Ltd has gained one contract which has now been submitted in the form of a letter of intent for consideration. There has not yet been any indication of other contracts or letters of intent signed or letters of intent that will become available in the near future. When this situation does arise and when any proposals are submitted to the Government of course all these matters will be taken into consideration to see that they completely conform to Government policy not only in respect of the points that the honourable member has mentioned but also the points that I have mentioned in this House previously. 
lt is correct that a senior representative of Nippon Steel will be in Australia for a short time. In fact we will be having discussions with him tomorrow morning. The position is as the honourable member stated in his question, that the downturn in the steel industry in Japan, as in other countries, certainly has had some effect on the export from Australia of raw materials such as iron ore and coking coal. There have been discussions already between representatives of my Department, the industry and the State departments which are concerned with Japan in relation to this matter. The position is related to the plus and minus areas in the contractual arrangements. The point we want to clear with the representative of Nippon Steel, which is the collective buyer for the iron ore and coal resources, is in relation to the minus area of the various long term contracts. We hope that this matter will be clarified during the discussions which we will 'be holding this week. 
I move: 
 That for the remainder of this period of sittings, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday and Wednesday at 2 p.m. and on each Thursday at 10 a.m. 
As honourable members know, this is the concluding 3 weeks of the sittings that have been previously listed. On the indication of sittings which I gave to the House at the commencement of this sitting it was expected that we would rise on the 25th of this month. We have a reasonable number of Bills to consider in the intervening period, but I still believe that we will be able to get them through by 25th May. There is no reason why we should not extend the sittings if we are unable to complete the business by that time. 1 am sure that having given the terminating date as 25th May, most honourable members would want to adhere to that date. However, a reasonable number of Bills have to be considered. 
I am sure we can conclude our business without unduly extending the hours of sitting. By sitting an additional half an hour a day, I think that we will be able to overcome the necessity to move for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. I have no desire to move for the suspension of the 1.1 o'clock rule to bring in Government business, and I am sure all honourable members would heartily agree with that. One of the principal reasons for moving this motion is to have an extra half an hour for each day of sitting, during this 3- week period. This will assist in achieving the objective of not introducing new Government business after 11 o'clock each night, and we will have the adjournment debate on 2 nights a week, as we normally do. I may say, in conclusion, that I did discuss this matter with my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  and he concurs with the proposal that I have put forward. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no meetings of the Commonwealth/States Consultative Committee on Nuclear Energy since 8th June 1970. 
Marine Affairs: Laws covering Private Yachts and Pleasure Craft  (Question No. 5538) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the Government's practice to provide information of the type sought. However, as the honourable member will be aware I announced the Government's decision to increase the level of incentives for petroleum exploration on 12th March 1972. 
This matter is one of great concern to anyone who has some association with the industry in question. At the moment we are engaged in discussions with Japan, our principal customer for coal, with a view to maintaining our export market In addition I know that my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry is taking advantage of every opportunity through his Department to explore market opportunities when they arise. However, on the practical side, production and the employment of workers within the State of New South Wales are matters which concern principally the Government of New South Wales. We have had discussions with the Government of New South Wales in relation to this situation and I know that that Government is fully aware of the problems that face the coal industry in that State at present. These are due to competitive markets overseas and, to some degree, to a falling off in orders for the immediate future. We hope that the market situation will improve within the next couple of years and also hope that there will be an upturn in world steel production that could help the situation. In the short term there are certainly some problems to be faced. However, as I said before, it is principally a matter that concerns the New South Wales Government, and I know it is fully aware of the situation and is doing what it can to assist in these fields. As to the matters that come within the jurisdiction of my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, he is, of course, aware of the situation. I know that his Department is taking constant action in these fields to assist where it can to the best of its ability. 
As the honourable member knows, the River Murray Commission did undertake an investigation of this matter and arranged for some consultants to produce a report, which was received a little over a year ago and which has been widely circulated. This report deals with the question of salinity in the whole of the River Murray system which, being the largest irrigation system in Australia, is of great concern to the 3 States involved and to the Commonwealth which is engaged with the States in consideration of the matter through the River Murray Commission. Subsequent to its receipt, the report was examined very carefully by the Commission and also by the State water authorities of South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. A lot of work is being done at present in examining the recommendations of the consultants. I should imagine that when the work is completed recommendations will be made through the River Murray Commission to the 4 governments concerned. We view this as a very important matter. 
I am glad that the honourable member has raised this matter in the House because it concerns a large number of people in the 3 States whose industry is vitally concerned with the suitability of water quality from the River Murray system. I can assure the honourable member that everything possible will be done to overcome the problems that have been posed in the report. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At present 2 prototype and one pre-production model of the Concord: are flying. The progress in noise reduction since the first prototype flew is marked and further improvements are expected to be made in respect of the models that will enter service in 1974. The manufacturers of the Concorde have been asked to present full details of their future noise reduction programme at the next meeting of the 'Committee On Aircraft Noise' which is scheduled to take place in Montreal during March 1973. The Committee was set up by the International Civil Aviation Organisation to develop legislation that will limit aircraft noise for all types of aircraft, including supersonic aircraft. Australia is represented on the Committee. 
The Australian Academy of Science has prepared a report on the possible dangers that might arise to the upper atmosphere in the consequence of supersonic aircraft operations. The report is an objective assessment of the situation by a group of eminent Australian scientists and is now available as a saleable document. The report concludes that no significant climatic effects will result from civil supersonic aircraft operations. 
Inquiries are being made both in Australia and overseas on the attitude adopted by insurance companies towards the sonic boom question. The information will be placed on record, when it becomes available. 
The United States of America has no noise certification requirements relating to supersonic aircraft. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (5) My attention had been drawn to the fact that there were no services from Melbourne to Canberra between 7.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays, and I had heard it suggested that the absence of services between these times was of some inconvenience to travellers from Tasmania and Victorian country centres. The airlines were themselves aware of this problem and, from 1st May, TAA and Ansett Airlines have provided services between Melbourne and Canberra on Mondays and Tuesdays leaving Melbourne at 8.30 a.m. and 8.3S a.m. These services should do much to improve the situation. 
The fact that the airlines together provide 8 morning services on these days between Sydney and Canberra is, of course, a reflection of the demand for such services. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It would be wrong for me to arbitarily ban civil flights at supersonic speeds over selected portions of Australia until the results of the current studies and investigations are known. 
The Department of Civil Aviation is represented on the Sonic Boom Committee which has been set up by the International Civil Aviation 
Organization to study, and make recommendations on the many aspects that relate to supersonic flight. The possible effects of the sonic boom on human beings, animals, structures, terrain and marine life are included in the terms of reference and the next meeting of the committee will take place in Montreal, in May of this year. 
The implications of the flight by the Concorde to Australia which has been proposed for next June are receiving consideration. Any decision to approve supersonic flight over portions of the route throughout Australia will be taken with due regard to al the circumstances that are involved. 
Although Qantas and the Department of Civil Aviation have had discussions on the possibility of allocating supersonic air routes over sparsely populated Australia in the event that these aircraft are purchased, no decision, or approval has been given in this matter. 
Although me United Kingdom and sonic other countries have discussed the possibility of banning supersonic flights over their territories, 1 am not aware of any definitive legislation that has been developed to ban such flights. It should be remembered that the population distribution, and the number and type of dwellings and structures in many other countries are completely different to those which exist in certain areas of sparsely populated Australia. These differences are real, and need to be taken into account when the current or contemplated practices of other countries on the question are being compared with what might be done here. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The noise exposure caused by aircraft flying over Canberra has changed little in recent years and complaints about aircraft noise continue to be of a low order. 
Every effort will continue to be made to reduce the low level of aircraft noise at Canberra to the greatest possible extent, by refinement of the existing procedures. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The restriction on aircraft operations into and out of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. applies only to jet aircraft. This restriction is strictly enforced, and the Department of Civil Aviation will not approve schedules involving operations within this period. 
There are, however, occasions on which flights must operate within the curfew period in order to cater to unusually high traffic demands at certain times of the year, such as Christmas, Easter and school holidays. These flights, which I approve, receive my special approval only when I am convinced that their operation within the curfew period is essential to provide for the needs of the travelling public. 
In addition to the flights which 1 approve, authorised officers of the Department of Civil Aviation approve flights which, through unfore seen circumstances, justify approval on short notice to intrude into the curfew period. 
From 1st January to 31st March 1972, 159 jet aircraft operated into or out of Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport during curfew hours. 
The name of the airline or other operator, the time of landing or take-off, the reason for the curfew intrusion and the origin or destination of each flight, as recorded by the Department of Civil Aviation, is as shown in the following table: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Amending legislation has been passed in Tasmania and this received Royal Assent on 26th November 1971. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The airspace over (a) Bankstown and (b) Moorabbin Airports has not reached saturation point. With the present level of activity both airports and the associated airspaces are operating within their capacity during weekends and well within their capacity at other times. 
There is continuous oversight of the operations at both aerodromes with the object of ensuring that safely standards are maintained. The general aviation industry in the Melbourne and Sydney areas will be well catered for with the development of additional sites to meet future demands. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There is an Authorised Landing Area only at Bendigo. It is on Crown Land which the Department of Civil Aviation assisted the Bendigo City Council and neighbouring Shire Councils in selecting with a view to its ultimate development to licensing standards. It was first opened early in 1970. 
The controlling authority is the Strathfield Shire Council on behalf of the Bendigo City Council and neighbouring Shire Councils. The Authorised Landing Area is within the Shire of Strathfield but it is understood that all Councils contribute to the capital and recurring costs. 
The sum spent on the construction and maintenance of the Authorised Landing Area is unknown. It is suggested that the question should be referred to the Council of the Shire of Strathfield. 
The Commonwealth has made no contribution. The Aerodrome Local Ownership scheme until recently has been confined to aerodromes of at least minimum licensing standard and, insofar as development grants are concerned, to aerodromes with airline or well established commuter services. 
The Commonwealth Government has no plans for upgrading and improving the Authorised Landing Area at Bendigo which is a matter for Local Government initiative. However the Commonwealth Government has recently decided to extend the Aerodrome Local Ownership scheme to provide 50 per cent development grants to locally owned aerodromes which have no airline or commuter service but which could demonstrate the needs for an aerodrome to meet aero-medical and charter operations. This is conditional upon the Local Government organisation first having the land suitable for development of an aerodrome to minimum licensing standard. The Bendigo Authorised Landing Area appears to be in this category and it is understood that the Councils concerned are preparing a submission for Commonwealth assistance. 
I am pleased that the honourable member is showing some interest in this important matter which in the future will become even more important to our national economy. I should like to correct him at the outset in relation to one thing. The honourable member referred to matters concerning jurisdiction in a particular region. Perhaps he has overlooked the fact that this is covered by joint legislation enacted by this Parliament and the Parliament of Western Australia. The Western Australian Government issues permits for this sort of exploration and, as the honourable member would know, Western Australia has a Labor government. Of course, permits were issued in relation to the north west shelf by the previous government in Western Australia. Once a permit has been issued by the Western Australian Government the issue of the permit must be confirmed by the Commonwealth Department of National Development. The initial appoach for a permit is made to the Western Australian Government. In fact, the Designated Authority under the 2 Acts is the Minister in the Government of Western Australia. I think that that point should be clarified at this stage. 
The second point relates to overseas investment. This does not directly come under my control but I think the honourable member will be pleased to learn that today the Treasurer will make a statement, and a White Paper in relation to this matter will be put down in this House so that all aspects of this matter may be open to study by all honourable members. In addition to that, there are the guidelines introduced by the former Prime Minister. 
These guidelines are being adhered to substantially by the Government. One of the prime responsibilities in relation to this matter rests with the Government of Western Australia. But I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that the various matters which the honourable member has raised are very much in our mind, and certainly the aspects affecting the national well-being will be very carefully considered when future approaches are made for a farm-out arrangement. 
The final point I make relates to the quoting of figures in relation to the gas, or perhaps oil deposits or condensate, that is on the north west shelf. At the present time I will not accept any figures until they are proven. We hope that it will be a very substantial field indeed, and the indications are that the suggested figures reflect the direction which the proven figures may ultimately take. At the present time 1 will not accept the figures that the honourable member has quoted, but we hope that the results ultimately will show a very substantial field which will be to the benefit of Australia as a whole. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The review of the Financial Directive to the Board of Directors of Qantas Airways Limited is proceeding. The matter is quite complex and it is not possible to indicate at this stage when the task will be completed. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The aircraft movements for Bankstown Airport for the calendar years 1962 to 1971 inclusive were as follows: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Riverwood Golf Course Pty Ltd, as the land owners, initiated an approach to the Department of Civil Aviation advising that it had in mind to sub-divide and sell the land for industrial purposes and inquiring whether the Department would be interested in acquiring the land which was adjacent the Bankstown Airport. The Department advised that it was interested in acquiring the land for use in the longer term to enlarge the building or aviation industrial complex of Bankstown Airport. 
The State Planning Authority, knowing that the owner of the land had offered it to the Commonwealth, asked the Commonwealth what it was intending to do about the land. The Planning Authority was told that the Commonwealth intended to purchase the land and suggested to the State Planning Authority that the land be zoned Special Uses (for Aviation purposes)'. 
The State Planning Authority considered the objection lodged by Riverwood Golf Course Pty Ltd, against the proposed zoning of its land under the Bankstown Planning Scheme and the Minister for Local Government determined that, in the Scheme to be prescribed, the subject land would be reserved for Special Uses (Aerodrome) purposes. 
Yes, subject to an acceptable price being agreed. The Commonwealth is at present negotiating with the golf course owner about the price of the land. 
The precise timing with which the Bankstown Airport building area will be extended into the golf course land, subject to successful price negotiations, will depend upon a review which is currently being undertaken of the master plan for Bankstown Airport and on the timing of requests from existing or new aviation tenants. Any revision in the master plan will not alter the building area category within these extended airport boundaries but it could alter the priority with which land within the airport as a whole is made available for additional building development. 
It is unlikely that the whole of the golf course land will be required for immediate use. When the land has been acquired, consideration will be given to leasing it on a short terra basis for continued use as a golf course. The terms under which the land can be leased will be negotiated by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
Unfortunately I cannot anticipate what any member is likely to do in this House. But if a situation arises in which a private member wishes to use the forms of the House in the correct way in accordance with Standing Orders, of course he should have the right to do so. The Government would obviously take no action to prevent any member exercising his rights in the correct way in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
I lay on the table of the House a copy of a statement made in the Senate today by  Senator the  Honourable L J. Greenwood, Q.C., on restrictive trade practices and monopolisation, and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hughes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to provide for increased salaries for certain statutory office holders. I should say at once that this is not the beginning of a new round. It is in no sense an initiative but a remedying of the anomalies that arose from the action of Parliament in amending the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill 1971. 
It is customary for the salaries of fulltime statutory office holders in the group below the levels of permanent heads of departments of State to be reviewed whenever salaries for Second Division offices of the Commonwealth Public Service are increased. Such a review was undertaken following the determination by the Public Service Arbitrator of new salaries for Second Division officers, which took effect from 4th November 1971, and the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill 1971 was introduced. 
The present Bill is required because of the amendments made last year to the Salaries '(Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill 1971 which had the effect of withholding from the statutory office holders referred to in the First Schedule to the Bill increases comparable with those which had been received by Second Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service as a result of the determination by the Public Service Arbitrator. As was made clear at that time, those amendments were accepted by the Government only to avoid a situation where, because of the form of existing statutory provisions, some of the office holders would not have been entitled to any salary at all. 
As indicated when the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill 1971 was introduced, in the case of various other comparable statutory office holders approval had been given for increases of the same order be applied, subject to compliance with the requirements of relevant legislation. With a few exceptions, action for implementation of that approval had not been completed when the Parliament amended the Bill and, in view of the attitude taken by the Parliament, the increases were withheld from a considerable number of statutory office holders. 
As foreshadowed by the Government in another place during the debate on the earlier Bill, injustices have arisen from withholding the salary increases from this group of officers. There is a strong element of unfairness to them and the attractiveness of salary for new and vacant offices, for which the Government must attract suitable appointees, has been diminished. Serious anomalies have been created; for example, in some cases top staff now receive a higher salary than statutory office holders under whose direction they work; and some statutory officers now receive less salary than they would have received if they had remained in the Public Service. Examples can be given to the House if desired. 
The Bill provides for the salary increases to be effective from 4th November 1971. This is because that date was the effective date included in the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill 1971, as originally introduced. In fairness to the officers affected by the unusual situation that followed the amendment of that Bill, the Government feels that there should be no departure from the original intention, which adopted the date of effect in the Public Service Arbitrator's determination for Second Division officers. 
It is also customary for national wage case decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which are applied to the salaries of officers of the Second, Third and Fourth Divisions of the Commonwealth Public Service, to be applied also to these statutory office holders. Accordingly, this Bill also provides for additional increases of $104 per annum in the salaries of those statutory office holders, following the 1971-72 national wage case decision handed down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 5th May 1972. As in the Public Service, this increase will apply from 1st June 1972. 
The Government considers that, in terms of equity and principle, the salaries for this group of officers should, as in the past, be kept in their proper relationship with the salaries granted by the appropriate authorities to Second Division officers of the Public Service. 
The Bill also includes revised salaries for lay offices under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and offices of Deputy Public Service Arbitrator under the Public Service Arbitration Act. These salaries were reviewed separately m their own right and included in the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill 1971 but were not approved by the Parliament. The revised salaries for Commissioners were also included in the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1972 now before the Parliament. As originally intended, these increases will also be effective from 4th November 1971. As in the past, this group will not receive national wage case adjustments. 
Details of the salary changes involved have been circulated to all honourable members. I again emphasise that this Bill is designed merely to complete the implementation of salary rates which have been paid to comparable Commonwealth officials as a result of arbitral decisions. I comend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to rake a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill 1972 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be pleased to know that I will take only a few moments. There are one or two points to which I feel I should refer. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  raised quite a number of matters. I can assure him that consideration will bc given to the points that he has raised. However, he did query generally the necessity for the purchase of these aircraft to increase the existing fleet and asked whether the purchase will have any impact on the usability factor and also on the viability of operations. Consideration was given to the expansion of the fleet on the basis of a traffic growth of 10 per cent. During the 2 years after the proposal had been approved, the growth rate was about 14 per cent per annum and, for the next 3 years, it is anticipated that it will be between 8 per cent and 12 per cent. So, even taking the growth rate at its lowest level of 8 per cent, there will still be a full requirement for the addition to the fleet. 
Well, the honourable member asked a question and I am providing the information now. The information was provided to the Department of Civil Aviation by the airline operators and it was on this basis that the decision was made to go ahead and provide the guarantee in one case and the loan in the other. The airline operators have indicated quite clearly that on peaks the additional capacity will be required. The larger aircraft will be required to meet the demand at that particular time and, of course, when they come into operation they will meet the requirement completely on a viable basis. 
Another point that was raised related to the question of noise. The engines in the Boeing 727-200 series aircraft meeting the requirements contained in an annexe to the International Civil Aviation Organisation convention. The honourable member for Newcastle will recall that, at that time, I had the honour of leading the Australian delegation to the ICAO conference in Buenos Aires when we dealt with the convention in relation to the introduction of new standards on noise. I am pleased to say that those standards have subsequently been introduced in annexe 6. The engines of the 727-200 series aircraft will conform completely with that annexe. Of course, the present aircraft do not meet this standard, but it will be fully met by all the engines which will be in the new aircraft. 
The only other point to which I want to refer before dealing quickly with the amendment is the question of offset arrangements. I think that the honourable member for Newcastle will be pleased to know that the Boeing Company has indicated that it will continue its offset programme and will be willing to expand it in accordance with the sales conditions and the Australian industrial capacity to reach the additional requirements. The company has 2 engineers stationed in Australia at present in connection with offset arrangements and they will remain here for at least another 5 years as far as we can see, and perhaps beyond that period. In addition to that, on 23rd April a high level mission from the Boeing Company, headed by a vice-president of the company, visited Australia to deal with this particular matter alone. I merely mention this to indicate that what the honourable member for Newcastle has in mind is being well and truly dealt with at present by the Department of Civil Aviation and the other departments concerned. 
Finally, I turn to the amendment. As I have indicated in this House before, I am not unsympathetic, and I know that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is not unsympathetic, to a proposal of this type; but there are qualifications involved in this matter. This is not the time to consider tying such a proposal to a Bill of this nature, because there is a degree of urgency. It is necessary that these 2 Bills be passed through the House during this sitting because of the guarantee and loan arrangements which must be finalised. All the negotiations have been in train and there is a limited time in which they must be finalised. So, it is essential that the Bills be passed on this occasion. However, I can assure the honourable member for Newcastle that the points he has raised in relation to this matter perhaps can be considered when the review of the 2airline policy is taking place. I certainly will ensure that the matter is referred to the Minister for Civil Aviation in another place. Perhaps the honourable member will be prepared to accept that; but, for the reasons I have mentioned, the Government cannot accept the amendment as it now stands because of the urgency of getting these Bills through the House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Charles Jones's amendment) stand part of the question. 
The second 5-year programme for national water resources which provided for an allocation of $10Om is to supplement the work undertaken by the States in this field and, in some cases, to give them the opportunity to expedite works which they are already undertaking. In many cases, the projects which are undertaken are mostly joint projects. The position at present is that the applications that have been received under the second 5-year pro gramme exceed in aggregate the total of $100m, which is the amount the Commonwealth has approved for allocation for this purpose. Each project is examined on its merits and an expert feasibility study is undertaken by personnel in my Department. At the present time I could not state the exact amount that so far has been allocated under the second programme except perhaps to say that Queensland has benefited substantially in the approval of projects including one in the Bundaberg area which the honourable member knows quite well and also the border rivers scheme at Pike Creek. I say that merely in passing because I know the honourable member has a special interest in that matter. I will obtain the exact details in relation to the allocations so far and will let the honourable member have precise information regarding the amounts for Queensland which have been approved and where possible those which are still in the pipeline at the moment. 
 There are only a few minutes remaining before the time allotted for discussion on the motion to suspend Standing Orders expires. However, I think we have heard sufficient to have made up our minds quite clearly as to what is the position of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  The honourable member is a person whom we all know and who has always carried out his duties in this House in an honourable way and has observed in a dedicated way the procedures and the Standing Orders of this House. In fact, in association with his duties as  Deputy  Government Whip, he has always upheld the Standing Orders and the procedures of the House, and I acknowledge that on this occasion. This matter has been clearly explained by the honourable member for Angas when he stated that he obtained the information that the Government was to reduce the wine excise from a radio report and from a Press report and, as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Alan Fraser)  said, this information could also have been obtained in that way by any other honourable member in this House. If the information was in the interests of an honourable member's electorate, of course he would take the opportunity of seeing that the information which he had read in the newspaper and heard over the air was conveyed to his electorate. As Leader of the House, I fully accept the explanation that has been given by the honourable member for Angas, as I am sure that every fair minded honourable member in this House will. But the position in relation- 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Dr Patterson's)  be agreed to. 
I seek leave to move for the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent order No. 3 being called on. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The American black poplar or eastern Cottonwood, Populus deltoides Marsh., is suitable for matchwood, plywood, toys, furniture and packaging wool. 
This poplar and its hybrids have been used for the above purposes for many decades in some overseas countries. The species does well in carefully chosen areas throughout eastern Australia; 2 plantations to produce wood for matches were started about 10 years ago. 
Poplars are normally planted as cuttings, the cuttings belongs to each 'strain' (clone) originally being derived from a single seedling. There are, therefore, a potentially unlimited number of different strains of this poplar only some hundreds of which are available in Australia at the present time. In general, those from the southern part of the natural range of the species have performed best here, and about 5 of these have been used commercially. 
The main commercially-used clones of Populus deltoides have been severely infected by the foliage rust Melampsora medusae Thum. in New South Wales this summer. It appears that heavy infection will lead to loss of growth and in some cases to the death of infected trees. The rust will not prevent the utilisation of trees which are already of merchantable size. Observations to date show that infection is more or less limited to Populus deltoides, but not all clones of that species are susceptible to infection. 
It is not known whether or not  Mr J.  Walker, of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture, has said that 'the sudden appearance of the disease indicates that it was probably an illegal importation'. There is no evidence of which we are aware as to how the disease came to Australia. The main possibilities are - 
Importation on illegally imported poplar cuttings. 
Importation on legally imported popular cuttings. 
Officers of the Forestry and Timber Bureau have been unable to discover any record of poplar cuttings having been introduced recently; it is improbable that the disease would have come in years ago with known legal introductions and have escaped notice until this year. 
Importation of spores on the clothing of a traveller from, say, the south-east of the United States of America, where the disease is common. A very large number of spores could be carried in a single trouser cuff. 
Transfer of spores to Australia by intercontinental air movement. There has been speculation that the introduction of coffee rust to Brazil a few years ago occurred in this way. The very rapid apparent spread of the disease throughout New South Wales is consistent with the effective dispersal of spores by air movement, and also with the patterns of spread of rusts of other crops. 
Department of Health Plant Quarantine staff have been fully informed of the discovery and course of the disease. The difficulty of effectively preventing the introduction to Australia of microscopic, wind-borne spores which may be abundant in regions frequented by international travellers are obvious. 
and (6) The Commonwealth Government, through the Forestry and Timber Bureau, is engaging on an active poplar tree breeding programme to develop rust resistant provenances of Populus deltoides and hybrids between it and other disease resistant poplar species and it is anticipated that disease resistant stock can be made available on a modest scale to nurserymen, tree farmers and timber producers within 3-5 years. 
Apart from conducting research work aimed at the identification and dissemination of diseaseresistant clones as mentioned above, the Government does not propose to provide special assistance to the industry. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Government has entered into an arrangement to permit a demonstration flight by the Concorde aircraft to Australia in June of this year as I indicated in my statement to the Press on 12th May. The Department of Civil Aviation has had discussions with Qantas in respect of a route which might be suitable for the Concorde to fly at supersonic speeds if the Concorde is purchased. The route under consideration extends from a point south of Broome in Western Australia and terminates at a point west of Cobar in New South Wales. Should supersonic flight be permitted on this route the Concorde would fly from the point west of Cobar to Sydney as subsonic speeds. 
Answered by (1) above. 
Details of the route will be obtained in the answer given to Question I. The width of the sonic boom area resulting from a Concorde aircraft flying at cruising height is about fifty miles. A person who is within this area will hear the boom as the aircraft passes overhead. The sound will taper off to the point that a person who is just outside the area will not hear it at all. 
The Concorde can utilize Australian airports which have been developed to accommodate Boeing 747 operations, namely Sydney, Melbourne, Darwin and Perth at this stage. During the demonstration flight, the Concorde will use the first threementioned airports. 
No additional airports would be needed if the Concorde is to be operated in Australia. 
The Australian Academy of Science has prepared a report on matters relating to possible effects of supersonic operations on the upper atmosphere. 
The Australian Academy of Science was requested to undertake the study by the Department of Civil Aviation, in respect of the matters referred in Answer 6 above, and the report is now available as a saleable document. 
The CSIRO has been studying the behavioural effects of the upper atmosphere for the last fifteen years. The results of these studies were available to the Australian Academy of Science. 
Information on this matter indicates that a sum of Stg25,000 in compensation has been authorised following the special tests which were made over Cornwall. It should be emphasised that these tests were undertaken in the knowledge that some damage would occur and the object of the test was to ascertain the order of the damage. 
Although some countries have considered banning supersonic flights over their territories, I have no information on any definitive legislation which has been passed to ban such flights. 
The Concorde is manufactured jointly by the British Aircraft Corporation and Aerospatiale, a French aircraft company. 
The capital cost of each Concorde aircraft is expected to be of the order of $31m. The cost of the associated spare parts is expected to be of the order of $26m for four aircraft. 
No approval has been given to Qantas or any other operator to operate the Concorde on regular scheduled services over Australia or its territories. The whole matter is subject to intensive study and the routes which would be chosen for supersonic flights, if in fact the Concorde purchase became a reality, would not pass over built-up areas. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The U.5. Federal Aviation Administration Noise Standards for Aircraft Type Certification (FAIR 36) apply only to new U.S. manufactured subsonic transport category aeroplanes or existing U.S. manufactured subsonic transport category aeroplanes for which a new type certificate is required because of some change in type design which may affect the acoustical characteristics of the aeroplane. With the exception of the Boeing 747, therefore, the standards are not applicable to the aircraft mentioned and no noise limits have been imposed. 
All Boeing 747 aeroplanes for which an individual certificate of airworthiness was issued after 1 December 1971, have been required to meet the FAR 36 noise limits in full, and do so. For the Boeing 747 these limits are 108 EPNdB at each of the three noise measuring points, namely: take-off, side-line and approach. 
No noise readings have been taken by the Department of Civil Aviation for any of the aeroplanes mentioned under similar conditions to those prescribed by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. We have not done so because, with the exception of the Boeing 747, the regulations are not applicable and in the case of the Boeing 747 the tests have already been performed in the United States. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) and (2) The main engine types used by the aircraft of Trans-Australia Airlines with the number of each indicated in brackets, are: Pratt &amp; Whitney JT8D (59), Rolls Royce Dart (75) and United Aircraft Corporation PT6 (34). Seventeen of the Rolls Royce Darts are on exchange with East West Airlines. 
The main engine types used by the aircraft of Ansett Airlines of Australia with the number of each indicated in brackets, are: Pratt &amp; Whitney JT8D (60), Rolls Royce Dart (74), United Aircraft Corporation PT6 (13), Allison 501 (2t) and Rolls Royce Spey (14). 
(a) Trans Australia Airlines has fitted 33 Pratt &amp; Whitney JT8D's with reduced-smoke combustion chambers. 
Ansett Airlines of Australia has fitted 33 Pratt &amp; Whitney JT8D's with reduced-smoke combustion chambers. 
None of the other types of engines are capable of being fitted with reduced-smoke combustion chambers nor is there any reason for them to have such chammbers fitted. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At the present time, because of workload considerations, detailed records concerning runway use are not maintained on a continuous basis and therefore it is not possible to answer the question in precise terms. However, there has been a necessary sampling of movements data over various time periods during 1969, 1970 and 1971. This has indicated that since early 1969 when the lengthened north/south runway became fully effective and revised noise abatement procedures were implemented, runway use, calculated by deriving percentages from sample statistics and applying them to the total actual landings and take-offs at the airport each year, was of the following order: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to - the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) No, except that Trans-Australia Airlines has applied for a Perth-Darwin service via one intermediate stop in Western Australia which presumes the carriage of intra-state traffic between Perth and that intermediate stop. The proposed frequency of operation and aircraft type are not firm. The matter is still under consideration by the Government in the general context of the operation of the 2 airline policy. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  of course, is right in raising these matters but I point out to him that paragraph (c) of the Schedule states-  the Commonwealth and the Stateshave agreed. . . . 
The honourable member referred to that part of the Schedule. It refers to the 5-year programme commencing on 1st July 1971. I assure the honourable member that agreement was reached. In fact it dates back to that particular date, and plantings that have occurred in the interim, between July 1971 and now are covered by the special Treasury vote as the honourable member is quite aware because this procedure was probably followed in his time when he was in the Department of National Development. Agreement has been reached between the Commonwealth and the States for this scheme, just as it was in respect of the first programme, by an exchange of letters between the Prime Minister and the Premier of each State. 
That procedure was concluded some months ago. The Bill could not be introduced until all States had agreed to the scheme. The Bill has been somewhat slow coming forward. Perhaps it should have been before the House a few months ago. As the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  pointed out, South Australia was the last State to agree to it. There had been a problem there and eventually it was overcome. When South Australia agreed to it, all States had then agreed by letter from each Premier to the Prime Minister, which is the normal method of agreement. That method has been followed on this occasion just as it was followed previously, and as it applies to other things. There has been an exchange of letters between the Prime Minister and the Premiers. The proposal was agreed to some time ago. 
I shall answer the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  quickly. The matter he raises has been discussed by the Australian Forestry Council. Certain taxation concessions were recommended and had been approved. Indeed, there are 5 different items in the taxation schedules that axe of assistance in the field of private forestry. In New South Wales and Victoria loans are made available to private individuals to assist them to establish plantations. All State forestry departments and the Commonwealth Forestry and Timber Bureau give advice and also make concessions in the provision of plants for plantings. Indeed the various governments give assistance to the private forests in a number of ways. This matter is brought up regularly before the Forestry Council and what the honourable member has suggested will certainly be kept in mind. 
 As we have 2 other Bills to consider tonight I will be brief. However I would like to refer to one matter that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  raised in relation to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  The Minister for Immigration did raise with me the question of the allocation to South Australia and, in fact, wrote to me about it on behalf of South Australia. The South Australian Minister for Forests  (Mr Casey),  who is a very good friend of mine, also has been closely in touch with me and has had several discussions with me about it as have a number of other members of this House. But the discussion that the honourable member refers to did not take place in the Australian Forestry Council; it was a discussion between officers representing the various States on the Standing Committee of the Forestry Council. It did not make a decision. The allocation to South Australia that was eventually recommended by the Forestry Council was above the allocation that should have been granted under the new programme. We did review the allocation in view of the case put by the Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Sturt, the South Australian Minister for Forests, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and others and we managed to get an additional allocation granted by the Treasury as a special grant to assist South Australia in view of the splendid record it had in the field of forestry during the last programme. It was a special grant above the allocation made to the other States. I mention that all the other States actually agreed to this course when we put it to them. 
I refer very quickly to 3 points relative to the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Firstly, the softwoods programme is one which is recommended by the Australian Forestry Council, of which I am  Chairman.  The Council is representative of the Commonwealth and the States. There was a first 5-year programme in which an amount of$1 8m had been allocated. During the second programme, which we are approving now, an amount of $21m has been allocated, so there has been an increase in finance. I mentioned in my second reading speech that there has been an increase in acreage from 256,800 to 273,400. The acreage directly financed by the Commonwealth has increased from 113,100 acres to 125,000 acres in the second programme. I quote these figures merely to indicate that there is a substantial increase not only in the financial allocation but also in the acreage which can be covered at this time. This, of course, was agreed to by the State governments. 
I refer secondly to the reference to indigenous forests. The amendment refers to hardwood forests. The Forestry Commission has undertaken a study in relation to this matter and, in fact, on Thursday of this week I was to chair a meeting of the Forestry Council in Darwin. I arranged for the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  to act on my behalf as I arranged for him to act on my behalf at the Minerals Council meeting in Mount Newman today. Honourable members know the reason why I must be here. But this question of indigenous forests and a programme proposed by the Australian Forestry Council will, I believe, come forward during the next 12 months or so for consideration by all the governments concerned. 
The third point I make is that a forestry and wood based industries development conference has been planned for 1974. The recently established executive committee, of which I also have the job of being chairman, appointed a number of panels which, I must say, will do most of the work. These panels have been working very extensively on this matter in conjunction with the Standing Committee which had previously been set up as an interim committee. But this will be one of the biggest things that has happened to the forestry and wood based industries in Australia and the work that will be done in the interim before the 1974 programme will be substantial. This indicates the very substantial work that is being done by the Australian Forestry Council in this particular field. The Opposition's amendment is not necessary because the proposals which the Opposition has in mind already are in train and the work in these particular fields is being carried out by the Australian Forestry Council. Therefore, the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I would like to quote one or two very brief extracts from the debate in the Senate on 20th April 1971 on the Salaries Bill 1971. In referring to this Bill  Senator Murphy  said: 
No-one here is suggesting - certainly I am not suggesting - that anything is wrong with the salaries being paid, but 1 am a little surprised at the paucity of some of them. The responsibilities of some of these officers are very great indeed. I wonder how the Commonwealth can retain the services of some of them at the salaries and allowances provided, in view of the amounts offered in private industry. 
This was said by  Senator Murphy.  He sain": 
I am a little surprised that those salaries are not very much higher than they are. . . . 
In the debate on this very Bill in the other place  Senator Willesee  had this to say: 
I assure the Senate that its purpose is merely to say that for the time being, at any rate - because this Bill can be brought up again in the new year- 
That is, 1972-  we ask the Senate to inform the House of Representatives that we are extending what the Government did yesterday and are freezing these salaries at their present level. 

 Senator Byrne of the Democratic Labor Party said this: 
We do hope . . . that these men . . . will have restored to them very quickly wage and salary equity .... We trust that the necessity for this action will not be of long duration and that very quickly what these men are entitled to in terms of work value will quickly and fully be restored to them. 
All we ask is that Opposition members now persuade their colleagues in the Senate to undertake what they said last year. 
 in reply - Again I will be very brief in my reply, in view of the hour. I did not think that I would ever feel sorry for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  but I am afraid that I did tonight when he had to respond to this Bill, knowing full well that the Public Service Board and the staff associations have been pressing this case very strongly in recent months. Knowing the justice of the case, the Leader of the Opposition, very cleverly I thought, skirted around it and at the last moment introduced an amendment which does nothing other than to negative the Bill. As has been stated, this matter was brought before the House on a previous occasion. The point that has not been brought out clearly tonight is that this is not the start of a new round of salary increases; it is the end of the round following the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the case which concerned comparable officials in the Second Division of the Public Service. In other words, it is a flow on to a small number of statutory officers who traditionally have always had their salaries allied to those of officers in the Second Division of the Public Service but who, on this occasion, have been prevented from obtaining a flow on by action taken in the Senate. 
Of course, we know that it is completely inequitable and inconsistent with past practice to continue to deny these increases. The Government considers that honourable members opposite should be given a further opportunity to grant salary justice to this group of statutory officials. We feel that rather than oppose the increases, as honourable members opposite have done on this occasion by proposing the amendment which they have, they should speak to their colleagues in another place in an endeavour to persuade them to pass this Bill on this occasion. I believe that this measure will be passed by this House; I believe that we will support it in this House, and support it quite strongly because it is only giving wage justice to these people. But if it is again rejected in the Senate, I think the staff associations should clearly understand exactly where the Opposition stands in this matter. 
I suggest to the Opposition in this chamber that it should rethink its stand in relation to the amendment which, of course, we will not accept, and that it should not only support the Bill in this chamber but also should endeavour to persuade its colleagues in another place to pass the Bill. I close on that note. I indicated the position quite clearly in my second reading speech when I introduced the measure. I will not refer again to the various matters which have been raised, except to say that we strongly suggest to the Opposition that it should support the Bill in this House and that it should try to persuade its colleagues in another place to support it. The Government rejects the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Whitlam's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The planning stage for the development of the new port of Darwin was completed last year. As the honourable gentleman is aware, the case had been examined by the Public Works Committee and it was shortly thereafter that there was a downturn in the steel industry throughout the world. This caused a falling off in the estimated additional requirements for iron ore from Frances Creek in the Northern Territory. Because this was one of the keys to the major bulk facility development at East Arm this meant that the matter had to be reviewed. So we called upon the steering committee to review the situation there. It has been considering proposals in relation to not proceeding with the bulk facility at East Arm but to proceeding with continued use of the existing facility which is in the main harbour area, and also to provide some additional permanent normal loading facilities in the main harbour itself. These proposals, of course, will not be as costly, but they will include the major facility for normal cargo handling and the small ship facility. The bulk loading facility will only be deferred until such time as there is an upturn in the world steel industry and the demand for iron ore increases. We expect that additional contracts would then be available to the producing company in the Northern Territory. At the present time the steering committee has come up with 2 alternative proposals. We are in the process of examining those at the moment and I do hope that my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, and I will be in a position to make an anouncement regarding this in a matter of the next month or so. 
It is rather strange for this matter to be raised now because I understand the Opposition has indicated to you,  Mr Speaker,  that it has for discussion a matter of public importance to be introduced by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  We are now in a curious position because we take it that that matter is not so urgent after all seeing that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has taken precedence and has proceeded with an obvious move to delay the business of the House, firstly, in having an opportunity to debate the matter of public importance, which we now understand cannot be so urgent after all, and I suspect therefore that the Opposition would not wish to proceed with that matter, and secondly, because the honourable member for Grayndler knows full well that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who handles these matters and who introduced these Bills, is this week in Western Australia and in the Northern Territory attending government conferences. 
The honourable member knows also that this motion is designed only to try to interfere with a debate on the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which we expect will be received from the Senate very shortly. These things are, of course, well known and this motion is obviously too blatant an attempt by the Opposition to firstly, delay the business of the House and, secondly, to try to take control of the business of the House which has been laid down by the Government. In these circumstances and in view of the arguments that have been put by the 2 Opposition members who spoke to the motion - those arguments were almost facetious in their intent, the comments in most cases being completely irrelevant and dealing with matters other than those relating to the Electoral Bill - this also is an obvious indication of the intention of certain members of the Opposition to try to delay the business of the House by moving this motion. 
The honourable member for Grayndler is t particularly sensitive today but he has not denied the fact that, as I said, a lot of the points that' he and the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  raised were not related to the Bills before the House but to other matters which concern a certain State. Having said that, and in view of the fact that the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders is designed only to waste the time of the House, we reject it. In the circumstances, to save time so that we can get on with the important business of the House with which we have to deal, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until a date and hour to be fixed by  Mr Speaker,  which time of meeting shall be notified by  Mr Speaker  to each member by telegram or letter. 
I move this motion at this point to enable the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  to move an amendment to it. After this matter has been disposed of, the House can consider the matter of public importance. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The funds allocated to advertising by the airlines are regarded by them as confidential and it would place them at a competitive disadvantage if these details were divulged. It is regretted therefore 'that' the information sought cannot be provided. 
Telephone Service at Toprain  (Question No. 5828) 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The number of aerobridges which can be used is partly related to the aircraft type. 
For example, they are not suitable for F.27 aircraft. 
The existing range  of  domestic jet aircraft permits the readyuse  of  one aerobridge only per aircraft. 
The same may be said of the Boeing 707. 
On the other hand, the Boeing 747 required 2 aerobridges and these are already provided at a limited number  of  positions in both Sydney and Melbourne. As the percentage of Boeing 747 operations increases the number of Boeing 747 positions with 2 aerobridges is being increased. 
Both TAA and Ansett Airlines of Australia are planning  to  effect major improvements  to  their domestic terminals at Sydney and your request for the provision  of  aerobridges will be brought to their notice. They also have in mind  to  increase the number  of  domestic aerobridges at Melbourne, for example, as the frequency, of use justifies the expenditure. 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The document is in draft form and is confidential to the Government. It is not considered appropriate therefore to indicate the nature or extent of the contents of the document. 
It is not possible to indicate when the document will be brought to finality. 
No. 
The Australian and Japanese Governments have established a joint ministerial committee which will consider matters of the kind raised by the honourable member. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The details requested are contained in the following table: 
l.move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is concerned with a grant to be made under phase 2 of the national water resources development programme. The Government has agreed to provide to the State of Victoria a grant under the programme of up to $2m for specified works in the Millewa region. The second phase of the national water resources development programme was announced by the Prime Minister in October 1969. Under this programme, the Commonwealth has undertaken to make available to the States $100m for rural water conservation and supply works, flood mitigation and water measurement. This new programme follows the original national water programme which provided over $50m in grants to the States. 
The Bill provides for a grant of financial assistance to the State of Victoria for the construction of a pipeline water reticulation scheme hi the Millewa region of north west Victoria. The scheme is situated in an area west of Mildura and covers some 455,000 acres containing 126 farms. The region is poorly watered and present supplies are pumped from the Murray River and delivered through open channels to farm storages. The system is inefficient and costly to operate, and the State is undertaking a programme involving complete renovation of the pumping stations, and replacement of open channels by pipelines. Details of the scheme are contained in the explanatory memorandum distributed with the Bill. 
I turn now to the Bill itself, which generally follows the pattern of Acts granting financial assistance to the States under this programme. The works themselves, in respect of which a Commonwealth grant is payable, are described in the Schedule to the Bill, and provision is made in section 5 for the Schedule to be varied if this appears desirable in terms of the objectives of the legislation. Provision for nonrepayable grants is made in section 4 of the Bill. 
Sections 6 and 7 set out requirements in connection with the implementation of the project, and cover the provision of information requested by the Minister, ministerial approval of the works, and approval by the Minister of contracts in excess of $500,000. Requirements for information in respect of expenditure are set out in section 8, and the usual provisions for the Treasurer to make advance payments, and for repayment of over-payments are made in sections 9 and 10. 
The national water resources development programme represents a very important collaborative programme between the State and Commonwealth governments in the development of Australia's water resources. The present legislation gives effect to a further decision of the Government in connection with the continuation of this important programme. 
The present water reticulation system has been in operation for many years and is nearing the end of its useful life. As well as meeting its high operation costs, capital expenditure would have to be incurred in the near future for complete rehabilitation, if the proposed new scheme is not installed. There is also the added advantage that water under pressure will be available to landholders at all times to replace the current intermittent supply to excavated storages. 
It is expected that this will provide the opportunity to. develop lawns and domestic gardens, amenities which will greatly improve living conditions for the people in the area served. No adverse effects on other aspects of the environment are expected to occur. Water diversions from the Murray River will be reduced from about 8,200 to 2,670 acre feet per annum, because of the reduction of losses achieved with the new scheme. I have much pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth Government Aerodromes Queensland 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The archival classification given to records of this nature requires the holding for 2 years only and therefore it is possible to give accurate details only in respect of 1970-71 and 1971-72. 
In the classifications given for both Norfolk Island and Lord Howe Island, Airways Engineering relates to navigation and communication aids; Airport Engineering to the development and maintenance of airport and buildings; Operations to air safety surveillance and the provision of air traffic and fire services; and Executive Services to staffing, stores inspection, auditing, property matters and business concessions. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following table shows by States the value of airport engineering civil works already committed but not paid for at the commencement of the years, (Revotes), together with the value of new programme approved during the relevant years. 
The programmes are approved for me full year and implemented progressively throughout that year. I have not therefore supplied the decreasing figure at the various dates requested. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Negotiations took place between certain Japanese companies and Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd, concerning the export of natural gas from the Palm Valley deposit to Japan. I understand that no contract eventuated from these negotiations. However Magellan have now announced that they have entered into a contract with Pacific Lighting Corporation of California for the export of natural gas to the United States of America. 
In January 1970, I announced that the export of natural gas from Australia would be subject to Commonwealth Government control. As 1 said at that time it was not the Commonwealth's intention to allow any exports of natural gas but that the Government would stand ready, to review this policy if it were at any stage, to be satisfied that Australia's own needs were reasonably provided for. 
I understand that a submission will be made to the Government in regard to Palm Valley Gas. This will be considered very carefully, taking into account the reserves of natural gas in Australia and the expectations of the quantities required for Australian usage in both the short and long term. All details of the contract, including the price for the gas, the quantities involved and the route for the pipeline would receive the Government's closest attention. 
Defence (Re-establishment) Act  (Question No. 5170) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information the honourable member seeks would be related to communications between the Commonwealth and a State Government and, unless otherwise agreed, such communications are confidential. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exploratory discussions have been held with uranium mining companies. The companies have been encouraged to have discussions with a view to their developing an effective marketing scheme, and I understand that prospective producers of uranium have engaged in discussions on these matters. 
No. 
This is a policy question for consideration by the Government if and when the need arises. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been no explosion and no damage to the extent of $13 million. However, one of a number of aqueduct lines in the Geehi River area of the Snowy Mountains is out of service through failure of several prestressed concrete pipes. 
See answer to (1). 
The reason for the failure of the pipe is not known. Independent investigations have not been able to identify the basic cause. 
Yes. There have been five failures in the prestressed concrete pipeline of the aqueduct in question. These were reported in the Annual Reports of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority for the years ended 30th June, 1969, 1970 and 1971. Up until the most recent failure in September 1971, repairs had been effected to the damaged sections and the aqueduct placed back into service immediately. However, it now appears that the nature and cause of the failures are such as to make it likely that further failures will occur unless remedial measures are taken. 
A number of alternative corrective measures are currently under consideration and preliminary work has already been put in hand. The total cost of remedial measures cannot be estimated at this stage. However, this cost will be very considerably less than the figure of $13 million quoted. 
Whatever disturbance has been caused will be restored in accordance with any obligation or understanding with the National Park and Wildlife Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) In I960, the Commission informedthe Department of Local Government of New South Wales that safety criteria for the Research Establishment at Lucas Heights provided that an area of a radius of one mile around the reactor HIFAR should not be available for commercial, industrial or urban development of any kind. All of the land involved was owned by the Commonwealth or by the Government of New South Wales. In addition, the Commission felt that it would be advisable to recommend minor restrictions on settlement in the lower levels of the Woronora Valley, and also on population density in nearby adjoining areas. In the event, the requirements of the Department of Local Government of New South Wales, based on urban planning principles, were more than sufficient to meet the Commission's criteria and no special action was necessary to give effect to the Commission's recommendsations. In these circumstances, the criteria established by the Atomic Energy Commission did not determine the planning proposals of the Department of Local Government. Since that date, the Commission's safety criteria have been relaxed in a minor way, and these modifications fall within the ambit of the principles established by the State Planning Authority independent of the Commission's requirements. 
As with most industrial enterprises, the operation of a nuclear reactor involves the possibility of an accident. In such an event a release of radioactivity to the atmosphere could result. The probability of such an accident is extremely small. Nevertheless, it is considered prudent to ensure that in the immediate environs of the reactor there is an area of limited access, so that in the unlikely event of an accident it would be possible to take such action as is necessary to ensure that no member of the public would be at risk. 
The buffer zone is approximately 3 square miles, determined on the basis of an exclusion area of one mile radius from the reactor HIFAR. 
None. There are no private property owners affected. All of the land involved belongs to the Government of the Commonwealth or the State of New South Wales. 
See (b) above. In addition, the health and safety standards and provisions adopted by the Commission in the operation of its reactors and the use of radiation, radioactive substances and toxic materials are subject to periodic review by an independent Safety Review Committee. This Committee is under the Chairmanship of Professor  Sir Sydney  Sunderland of the Faculty of Medicine, Melbourne University,  Dr C.  J. Cummins, Director-General of Public Health New South Wales and  Mr D.  J. Stevens, O.B.E., Director of Commonwealth X-Ray and Radium Laboratories. 
Yes. Such assurances were given, subject to the establishment of a buffer zone around the reactor to protect the community. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The numbers of indigenes and expatriates employed by each airline in Papua New Guinea and also the number of these employees housed by each airline as at May 1972, are as follows: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Qantas employees in Nadi, Fiji comprise 91.5 per cent Fijian citizens and 8.5 per cent Australian expatriates, more than half of whom are highly skilled mechanics and engineers. There are 28 of these expatriates who are employed in specialised and technical jobs which Qantas performs at Nadi for American Airlines and other carriers. It is misleading therefore to make a comparison of the proportions of expatriate and local staff working for American Airlines and Qantas. American Airlines does not require expatriate staff for the simple reason that it uses Qantas staff for all skilled technical work. 
Since 1963, Qantas has reduced the percentage of expatriates working in Nadi from 27 per cent to the present 8.5 per cent This percentage will be progressively reduced even further. I should also mention that Fijian citizens have been brought to Australia at Qantas expense for 4 year training courses to become licensed engineers. Seven Fijians have so far completed these courses and 5 are currently working in Nadi. Furthermore, at regular intervals they will return to Australia for even more specialised courses. This will enable them to maintain and service the highly complex systems of modern jet aircraft Extensive on-job and overseas courses for locally employed staff have also been conducted in the fields of reservations, communications, traffic handling and other airline functions. 
Qantas intends handing over its reservations and some sales functions in Western Fiji to Air Pacific in 1973 as part of its localisation plan. This will mean about15 Fijian staff currently working for Qantas will then be employed by Air Pacific. 
I will not deal with the first part of the question which was more in the nature of a statement and a comment than a question. Dealing with the second part, which related to the industries associated with the production of petroleum gas, often termed natural gas, and uranium, these 2 industries have a tremendous importance to our future economy. I would certainly not be in a position to accept or deny the figures which have been quoted by the honourable member. I have seen quite a number of references from time to time to the estimated value of the ultimate production from the known deposits of these 2 industries. I merely repeat what I have said before in this House, namely, that I will not accept any figures until they are finally proven and then I will make a statement on them. This applies to these two industries. 
The position in relation to natural gas is that the deposits which have been discovered so far are being utilised substantially for local domestic purposes. It appears that on the north-west shelf there are very substantial deposits which are not yet proven. This, of course, is well known to the honourable member. If he can contain his anxiety a little I will obtain as much information as I can in relation to a quite extensive question which he has on the notice paper. Undoubtedly he will obtain some more information when an answer to that question is supplied to him. 
To deal with the question of uranium in the depth with which one should deal with an industry of such importance would take a considerable time. The interesting fact - I think that the Leader of the Opposition also will be pleased to know - is that the present uranium province in the Northern Territory, the discoveries in Western Australia and the anticipated proving of areas in South Australia show that the bulk of the exploration work and also the results that have been achieved so far are largely in Australian hands. The policy that applies generally in relation to this industry, as in other resource industries, is that even though extensive overseas resources are involved in many cases of development the policy followed by this Government has always been that there is an element of Australian equity, which varies in accordance with the resource concerned, and principally that the management of the resource industry remains in Australian hands. 
I appreciate the interest that the honourable member for Ryan shows in this important matter relating to the environment. He has raised the matter with me on occasions in the past and I think that, in again pursuing his interest, he is doing so in what I believe to be the firm national interest. I can give him an assurance in regard to the development of the resource industries in Australia that the very thesis that he has propounded in his question is carefully considered. Of course, the Commonwealh has stated its position in a statement made by my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. In co-operative bodies such as the Australian Minerals Council, the Australian Forestry Council and the Australian Water Resources Council, I have had the opportunity over the last year or so of studying with the States problems related to rational economic development of our resources and aspects of the environment. 
I can assure the House that the States are fully conscious of the matter, as are the industries concerned. I can merely quote 2 outstanding examples of the work that is being undertaken in this field. One is the ecological studies that were undertaken at Jervis Bay at the site for the proposed nuclear power station. These studies were undertaken to an extent to which they had not been undertaken anywhere in the world where a site was being considered for a nuclear power station. The second is the study which is being undertaken jointly in Western Australia in the Ord Valley area. This is associated with the second stage of the Ord scheme - the main dam for which was opened recently by the Prime Minister. This ecological study is being undertaken on a very extensive scale by both governments. I assure the honourable member that I cite those 2 examples merely to indicate that the Commonwealth and State governments are fully aware of the matters raised by the honourable member, and I assure him that as much atten tion will be paid to these matters in the future as has been paid to them in the past. 
I hope that I will be allowed a similar period of time to answer the question as that taken by the honourable member when he asked it. This matter is a very important one. I have had discussions with  Sir William  Pettingell about the construction of the pipeline from South Australia to Sydney. The pipeline has no connection whatsoever with the situation at Palm Valley. The arrangement between the Sydney company and the Delhi-Santos group in South Australia, approved by the governments of South Australia and New South Wales, relates to the supply of gas in a pipeline from the Cooper basin area - from GidgealpaMoomba - to Sydney on a contractual basis. Plans are proceeding for this arrangement at present. However, as the honourable member has already informed the House, the deposit in the basin in the Palm Valley area is quite a separate matter. 
I was in the Palm Valley area only recently and I inspected the No. 2 well. The No. 1 and No. 2 wells as the honourable member is I think fully aware, have been drilled down to a producible depth and are both closed at the moment. The question of proceeding with exploration in the Palm Valley and in the Mereenie areas is under consideration by the Magellan company at the moment and some discussions have been held with an overseas company from the United States in relation to an interest in this area. The matter has been submitted to the Government for consideration. I have it under examination and when some decision for a recommendation is made from a departmental point of view 1 will submit my views to the Government. The matter will be considered in relation to that particular aspect only. 
It is not correct to say that the resources in the Palm Valley basin have been proven; they certainly have not. There are only 2 wells which can be operational but we believe that there is a prospect of finding a reasonable deposit there, and of course there has to be a deposit up to a certain volume before it becomes a viable proposition. In the meantime it is necessary to spend millions of dollars on exploration and proving operations in that region. It is possible that if the area is proven to be a viable proposition - and I hope and believe that it will be - the prospects for utilisation of the gas from that area are many. 
At present our policy does not allow for export, except perhaps from remote areas, but is designed to ensure that Australia's requirements are satisfied first. If export were allowed at some time in the future we could have a pipeline to the Gulf or we could utilise the then existing pipeline to Sydney which would have some capacity for carrying gas from this region. If gas in this region is used for domestic purposes it could be utilised by Sydney, using the same pipeline or a parallel pipeline constructed in the future. Perhaps it could be utilised by Perth. The Western Australian Government has indicated an interest in this region and at the moment it is undertaking a feasibility study on the construction of a pipeline from Palm Valley to Perth. 
There are quite a number of prospects in mind, but certainly the project has not been developed to the stage where any definite answer can be given in relation to it. All I can do is to repeat Government policy. The present policy is that no LNG can be exported until Australian requirements are met with the proviso that if gas were discovered in remote areas such as Scott's Reef on the north west shelf off the coast of Western Australia consideration could be given to permitting export in special circumstances. 
Yesterday in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Cunningham I referred to a contract negotiated between Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd and an American company. That American company is Pacific Lighting Corporation, to which the honourable member referred. I have had discussions with representatives of that organisation as well as with representatives of Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd. The position is as I indicated yesterday. The contract which has been negotiated is subject to Government approval because, as I pointed out yesterday, an export embargo has been placed on liquefied natural gas. There is no export embargo on liquefied petroleum gas, it being a refinery by-product. Liquefied natural gas is found as natural gas and must be liquefied before export. Both the companies concerned know the policy of the Government in relation to this matter, namely, that there is a general embargo on the export of liquefied natural gas. It cannot be exported until we are satisfied, firstly, that Australia's requirements for the foreseeable future will be met. Secondly, the policy which has been stated by the Government and which is clearly understood by all the State governments, because I have discussed the matter with every State government over the last month or so, recognises the possibility that, in remote areas such as tb~ northwest shelf off Western Australia, it may not be a viable proposition to supply natural gas from that area to some other areas in Australia. There may also be a surplus in that region for export. In those circumstances, consideration could be given to issuing export permits. Honourable members must remember that reserves in the northwest shelf, for example, will not be proven for some years. We anticipate that it will prove to be a very substantial deposit but it will not be proven until after many millions of dollars have been spent in that region. In regard to the contract that has been negotiated between Magellan Exploration Pty Ltd and the Pacific Lighting Corporation, as I stated yesterday this matter came first to my attention and it has been submitted to my Department for examination. We will have to consider all aspects of the issue, particularly the conservation of our reserves for our own requirements in the future and also, if we desire it, the encouragement of further exploration and the impact that this would have on our own industries. All these matters must be considered very carefully. As 1 said, the position has been discussed with all States and we have had their reaction to it. After the study, which will take some time because there are so many important aspects to be weighed, I will submit the matter to the Government for consideration. 
by leave - The Government has, in the past few weeks, reached decisions on several major matters of civil aviation policy, and it is appropriate that I should report the details of those decisions to Parliament. The Government and the Australian people have every reason to be proud of the civil aviation achievements of this country, in both the domestic and the international field. Civil aviation is one of Australia's major industries. The Commonwealth itself has approximately $425m invested in a wide network of airports and airway facilities, while the value of aircraft and other assets of the airlines and general aviation operators exceeds $680m. Total employment in the industry is more than 50,000 people. Last financial year our airlines carried 8 million passengers. Our aviation policies, therefore, are of utmost concern to the nation. 
As honourable members know, for some time now the Government has been conducting an extensive review of Australia's competitive 2-airline system. The 2-airline system, established in 1952 and renewed in 1961, is the cornerstone of our domestic aviation policy and provides for 2, and not more than 2, domestic airlines operating on the trunk routes of the Australian mainland. That review was, in part, deferred for some months earlier this year because of a takeover bid for Ansett Transport Industries Ltd which is the private enterprise party to the 2-airline system, and because of subsequent actions taken both by the Senate through its standing committee system and the Victorian State Parliament. The Government has now decided that the 2-airline competitive system should be extended for at least a further 5 years beyond 1977. We have based that decision on the widely recognised fact that the competitive 2-airline system has produced for Australia a safe, stable, modern, wellequipped, efficient and economic airline system of great value not only to Australian air travellers but to the nation. 
The system is really a duopoly operated by a Government owned arm, the Australian National Airlines Commission operating Trans-Australian Airlines, and a private enterprise arm, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. They are free to compete with each other, the purpose being to give equality of access and opportunity for both themselves and the Australian people. In saying this, we are pleased that, after many years of criticism, the Opposition agreed recently, through its spokesman on civil aviation matters in this House, that the competitive 2-airline system had sufficient merit to warrant its continuation. Australia is a large country both in a geographical and civil aviation sense. In terms of work performed, our domestic services are fifth in the world in size and our international flag carrier Qantas is eleventh. Overall we rank sixth in world standing. This would not have been achieved without the system we have adopted. 
The present agreements on which the competitive 2-airline system is based are due to expire on 18th November 1977. We have decided that it would be appropriate to extend those agreements, subject to 5 years notice of cancellation by the Government or ATI at any time after 18th November 1977. The practical effect of this is to extend the competitive 2-airline system for at least 5 years until 1982. Legislation to approve a new agreement will be prepared for introduction in the Senate as soon as possible during this session. This decision to extend the agreements at this time is based on the Government's belief that the competitive 2-airline system is not only the best policy for Australian domestic air services but that it is also supported by the large majority of Australians. Ansett Transport Industries sought a 7 year extension. The crux of the company's case was that continuation of the stable economic environment created by the competitive 2-airline system was absolutely vital before the ATI board could involve its 50,000 investors in the substantial loan commitments needed for additional aircraft, the repayment of which would extend well past the present agreement expiry date of 1977. To underscore the importance of this point, I should mention that in the mid 1960s, the funds invested by Ansett Transport Industries in aircraft totalled $44m. By the mid 1970s they will reach an estimated $130m Equipment costs of course are bound to continue to rise, making the problem even more acute. 
The Australian civil aviation industry has been characterised by high growth rates. These have been on the average well above the growth rates of the economy as a whole. Although there has been a temporary slackening in the last year, the industry must continue to plan for a substantial growth. The re-equipment plans to cater for this have to be thought out many years ahead. New types of equipment like the wide-bodied jets must come up for consideration. It is only fair and sensible in the interests of the Australian community and the operators that security should exist for proper plans to be made well enough ahead. In the circumstances, therefore, the Government believes that its proposed 5 year period of notice is fair and reasonable and adequately safeguards the public interest and the interests of future Parliaments. I anticipate, of course, that there will be some who will criticise the Government for extending the competitive 2-airline system late in the life of the present Parliament. The simple answer to this is that no government can allow the legitimate business of the country to stagnate simply because an election is approaching. If this philosophy were to be followed no government would take any major decisions in a election year. Another factor to be considered, of course, is the point that I mentioned before - that the Government had hoped to complete its review early this year, but had to suspend this consideration until other matters outside its immediate control were resolved. 
Let me outline the other major decisions the Government has made in connection with this extension of the competitive 2- airline system. The legislation we plan to introduce into Parliament will include a provision making the new agreement determinable by the Commonwealth if a certain proportion of the voting power in the private enterprise airline, which is party to the agreement, is in the bands of any one foreign owner, or if total overseas ownership and control exceeds certain limits. The precise limits have yet to be determined, but the matter is under close study by the Government's advisers. 
Before leaving this particular aspect, honourable members will recall that the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, in its excellent and thorough report on the Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd-Ansett Transport Industries Ltd affair, considered in detail the matter of foreign ownership and control of air transport enterprises operating in Australia. The Committee expressed the view that Air Navigation Regulation No. 322, which covers this question, was imprecise and did not offer adequate guidelines to the Director-General or the Minister for Civil Aviation in their con sideration of licence applications by enterprises having some foreign participation. The Government agrees with the general views of the Committee and proposes to have the regulation examined and amended. In doing so, the comments by the Committee, and any subsequent views put forward by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, will be taken into account. I believe that ali members of this Parliament, and indeed the vast majority of Australians, will support these proposals to maintain ownership of air transport enterprises in the hands of the Australian people. I am sure there will also be universal support for the requirement that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd should produce separate accounts of its airline operations. These will be presented to Parliament and thus permit more informed debate and assessments of the competitive 2-airline system. 
Another major decision arising from the Government's review is to give additional routes and opportunities to the Government's own airline, Trans-Australia Airlines, which will be authorised to operate air services between Perth and Darwin in competition with the Ansett subsidiary, MacRobertson Miller Airline Services. These TAA services will be phased in over a 2-year period starting next June and having regard to the state of the traffic on the route from time to time. This arrangement is designed specifically to minimise any disruptive effect on the staffing of MacRobertson Miller's present operations, although traffic growth on routes throughout Western Australia has fallen considerably in recent months, due mainly to reduced mining activities in the north west, the Government nevertheless believed that the Perth-Darwin route could no longer be denied the benefits that competitive services have brought on other major trunk routes throughout Australia. It is interesting to recall that, in pursuance of this policy of granting equal access when economically justified, Ansett Airlines of Australia received rights from Adelaide to Darwin and Brisbane to Darwin in 1961. The total revenue on the network of services linking Perth-Darwin is now sufficiently large to justify competition by all the yardsticks adopted in previous instances where monopoly routes have become competitive, as I referred to earlier. 
I should add that the approval for TAA to enter the Perth-Darwin route does not involve the Commonwealth Government in any express commitment to upgrade airport facilities at any proposed intermediate airport to cater for a particular aircraft type. Trans-Australia Airlines also will be given immediate rights to operate air services in competition with the Ansett airlines between Darwin-Gove and between Cairns-Weipa-Thursday Island. In the case of this latter route, the Department of Civil Aviation will take all practical steps to minimise the effects of the operation on Bush Pilots Airways Ltd which operates a service calling at intermediate points. The Government has decided further to give TAA greater opportunity to undertake outside engineering works, including Government contracts, and to enter into mutually beneficial arrangements with surface transport carriers and hotel-motel operators. This is designed to improve TransAustralia Airlines' abilities to continue to compete effectively, especially now that it faces additional competition. 

 Mr Speaker, let me add that the Government does not pretend that the competitive 2-airline system is faultless, even with the proposed changes that I have outlined. Therefore, in negotiating a new agreement, we propose to require, as a prerequisite, several additional special undertakings from TAA and Ansett designed to further reduce some of the more objectionable areas of parallel scheduling; maintain and encourage the operation of country air services; encourage the airlines to pursue actively the introduction of further promotional fares to stimulate the domestic tourist industry; stimulate air freight growth; and keep operations during jet curfew hours at Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide, to an absolute minimum. Nor have we neglected the important role played by operators outside the competitive 2-airline system. 
Regional operators like East-West Airlines Ltd, Connair Pty Ltd, Brain and Brown Airfreighters Pty Ltd, Air Express International and Business Jets Pty Ltd will be encouraged to continue to show initiative and enterprise and, according to their specialist abilities, develop such traffic as low-cost inclusive tours, tourist traffic to country centres and specialist freight and passenger services. This encouragement and expansion will be permitted within the framework of an economic 2 airline policy. As concrete evidence of this, the Government has decided to authorise Business Jets to acquire a Fokker Friendship to develop tourist traffic particularly to country centres like Swan Hill. Brain and Brown Airfreighters, which has a long record of successful air freight operations to the Bass Strait Islands, has been given approval to import a Carvair freighter aircraft, and East-West Airlines has been given a clear indication that it can introduce a medium jet on to its regional routes when it considers this economically justifiable. The role of Connair Pty Ltd in maintaining air services to more than 120 centres throughout the Northern Territory over a period of 34 years is well know. Faced with steeply rising costs of operation, Connair has had to receive much higher subsidy payments from the Commonwealth in recent years, and the Government, in consultation with the company, is seeking ways and means of arresting this trend and reducing Connair's dependence on Commonwealth support, while ensuring the continuation of essential services in the Northern Territory. Here again, the Government has been able to facilitate some expansion of Connair's activities with the prospects of beneficial financial results, and other avenues of this nature will be explored. Each of these moves separatley and collectively will be of benefit to rural air services and tourism. 
The Government has closely examined applications by TAA and Ansett Airlines for airline licences to operate over the route Alice Springs-Mt Isa-Cairns. At present, Bush Pilots Airways Ltd provides a commuter service between Cairns and Mt Isa and Connair operates an airline service between Alice Springs and Mt Isa. Both the major airlines operate many charter flights over the route between Cairns and Alice Springs, catering specifically for parties of overseas tourists, but normal sector traffic is not carried on these flights. It has been decided to defer a decision on the airlines' applications for Alice Springs-Mt Isa-Cairns licences so that further studies can be made to determine precisely what impact the operation of such regular services would have on Connair and Bush Pilots. In the meantime, the major airlines will continue to enjoy unrestricted rights to operate charter flights to cater for the important tourist trade. 
Although not part of the competitive 2- airline system, it is appropriate that I refer to the proposed new arrangements on TAAs staff superannuation schemes. As mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech, the Government is requiring Trans-Australia Airlines to change its accounting arrangements relevant to the operation of these superannuation schemes. The changes proposed will mean that TAA's superannuation arrangements will be similar to those adopted by over 30 other Commonwealth instrumentalities, including the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. At present. TAA uses a large part of its accrued employer's contributions to staff superannuation funds in financing capital works and day-to-day operations. The use of superannuation funds in the business in this way is contrary to the normal practice for a commercial enterprise of the Commonwealth. In the circumstances, the Government believes that TAA should terminate this unique arrangement. 
In effect, TAA has 2 superannuation schemes. The first is for its non-flying staff, who are contributors to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. It is proposed that, in this case, TAA will pay to the Commonwealth its employer's contributions to the scheme under payasyougo arrangements similar to those applying to Commonwealth authorities generally. The Commonwealth will then assume responsibility for pensions when they fall due. The second scheme is that of TAA's flying staff, and the proposal here is that the employer's contributions will be paid into a trust fund, as are the employee's contributions at present, and the trustees will be responsible for investing the funds and meeting pension commitments. 
The proposed new arrangements involve a payment by TAA to the Commonwealth of an estimated S21m to discharge its accrued liability in respect of non-flying staff as at 30th June 1972 and the liability accruing this year. Provision has been made in the Budget for an advance of $25m to enable TAA to do this, and to withdraw from the business and pay to trustees its accrued contributions to the flying staff superannuation fund amounting to an estimated S4m. This advance will be made by way of loan monies at commercial rates of interest, and will not form part of the capita] of TAA. It will be necessary to amend the Australian National Airlines Act to enable TAA to borrow this amount, and an appropriate Bil) will be introduced for this purpose. I stress that the entitlements of TAA employees under the various superannuation schemes are in no way affected by the new arrangements. Nor is any change proposed in respect of employee superannuation contributions; these have always been invested outside the business. The changes relate only to employer superannuation contributions. 
The general aviation operators experienced difficulties in 1971-72 similar to those of the previous year. However, this important segment of the industry again flew over one million hours last year and reports suggest that, in the closing months of the year, there was some improvement in activity and that this was tied to the recovery in general economic activity. 
The Government welcomed the move in March 1972 by the Australian Aerial Agricultural Association and the Association of Commercial Flying Organisations to merge and form the General Aviation Association (Australia). The Government approved a special establishment grant of $8,000 to enable this new Association to develop as an effective force in the industry. 
Recognising the depressed economic state of the general aviation industry, the Government has decided that the 5 per cent increase in air navigation charges announced in the Budget to become effective on 1st December, 1972, will not be applied to the great majority of general aviation operators. The Department of Civil Aviation will join with the General Aviation Association to conduct an economic survey of the industry in the next few months, and this will be valuable background material for both the Government and the Association in formulating policies which affect general aviation. 
Turning now to our international operator, the Government has decided to increase Qantas' capital by $25m, and appropriate provision has been made in the Budget. 
This will raise Qantas' capital to $64.4m. It is the first time for 10 years that the Government has had to advance additional capital to the airline. Qantas Airways Ltd has been a most remarkable Australian company. Prior to the injection of these additional funds, capital has been stationary for quite a long time and, in the last 10 years, in dividends and taxation, the company has returned to the Australia, taxpayer more than its capital. It has been a substantial earner of foreign exchange for Australia as well as carrying the flag of a great trading nation around the world. Due to over capacity on the world's air routes and increasing costs, it is going through a difficult time, but we are quite confident as a Government that it will emerge from this to show greater growth and success in the future. The money will help to meet essential commitments such as Qantas' fifth Boeing 747 jumbo jet and the repayment of loans raised earlier to finance aircraft and building projects. 
I believe this capital increase, together with the Government approval announced a few days ago for Qantas to proceed with the $44m first stage of its new Australian headquarters, indicate very clearly the Australian Government's intention to support Qantas and provide it with the facilities, capital and backing necessary to maintain its pre-eminent position in international aviation. 
I wish to comment briefly on one other important subject. This is the special position of aviation in Papua New Guinea. More than half a million passengers and almost 20,000 tons of freight and mail were carried by airline operators in Papua New Guinea in 1971-72. Charter operators also continue to play their traditional and significant part in providing air services to more isolated communities. Air transport and the aeroplane obviously have a vital role in almost every phase of Papua New Guinea's development. 
The extensive, safe and efficient aviation industry which now exists in Papua New Guinea is soundly based on the network of aviation facilities and supporting services developed and maintained by the Department of Civil Aviation over many years. This has cost a great deal in money and effort. It is pleasing to note, therefore, that a Select Transport Committee of the Papua 
New Guinea House of Assembly has acknowledged that, when Papua New Guinea becomes independent, it will inherit a more advanced and efficient aviation system than probably any emerging country in the same position. 
The Government has encouraged the move of Papua New Guinea to self government and eventual independence. In civil aviation, we have in mind the eventual handing over to the new nation of responsibility for the operation of air services and the maintenance of the complementary network of aviation facilities. To further this aim, it is the intention of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to visit New Guinea shortly for personal discussions with the Chief Minister,  Mr Somare.  These detailed discussions follow talks recently between the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  and the Chief Minister. I am confident that we can work out with the Chief Minister and his colleagues a programme for the acceptance by the local authorities of responsibility for civil aviation in Papua New Guinea. 
At the outset I referred to the size of the civil aviation industry and the important place it occupies in Australia. In particular, the industry is a major one in terms of governmental control and policy, and I have made this statement to the House to indicate some of the things this Government has done and proposes to do in this vital area of its responsibilities. I hope that honourable members will have found my remarks both '-formative and helpful. I present the following paper: 
Civil Aviation: Policy - Ministerial Statement, 30th August 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Kevin  Cairns) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
This matter has been raised by the honourable member on several occasions. I know that he has raised the matter in this House on at least one occasion and that he has been in touch with me on several other occasions in regard to it. He has done so principally, of course, because the area concerned is in his electorate. However, the area also is of great national importance. During the last week I dealt with a number of matters relating to the policy covering the export of LNG. The honourable member, 1 think, is well aware of the policy problems involved. 
In answer to a question yesterday I touched briefly on other aspects such as the value to Australia of export earnings, the value to Australia of having a liquefaction plant which would cost many millions of dollars, the construction of a pipeline and matters of that nature. But the point is whether the gas from this field, which has not yet been proven, is to be used for export or domestic purposes. If it is used domestically, part would be liquefied because the consumer companies would carry, or will in the futue carry, a certain amount of gas in liquid form in storage. Domestic consumption of this gas also would entail the construction of a pipeline. It could be that pipeline could be sent up through the Northern Territory for a special industrial purpose. Alternatively it could go to the west, or east to Sydney by way of perhaps the pipeline from Gidgealpa-Moomba. Such a project would still involve some pipeline construction. 1 can assure the honourable member that these points are kept very much in mind. 
The final point which I want to mention is that there are 2 areas involved here. There is the Palm Valley area which so far as indications of gas only and maybe a little condensate. Also there is the Mereenie area which has some proven deposits of liquid petroleum and some gas. The position regarding the utilisation of supplies of liquid petroleum is one of investigation at present. The proposal, as the honourable member knows, is that a small refinery be constructed at Alice Springs. If this is done it will be necessary to give a franchise only to the company in that area and exclude all other distributing operators in that area. Therefore there are many complications involving the Commonwealth subsidy and other matters which concern the Northern Territory Administration. However, negotiations are still continuing in that respect and I will let the honourable member know when some decision is made. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Defence personnel carried on charter flights by Qantas during the year ended March 1972: 15,940. 
1 appreciate the information given by the honourable member, which I assume is correct. 
 I will take the matter up with my colleague in another place to ensure that the figures are accurate. Qantas is a major world carrier. If the honourable member wishes to make comparisons I suggest that he make them not only on the Pacific route but also on the Kangaroo route to Europe and the United Kingdom, because in that case he will find that Qantas has a very substantial portion of the traffic that is carried. The honourable member is aware that a statement was made last year in relation to the problems of Qantas and the viability of its operations, brought about by additional competition from United States international carriers. This certainly had an effect on the figures for last year. That situation was recognised and as a result Qantas has taken the lead throughout the world in reducing fares. That has had a very substantial effect on improving the figures during this year. I suggest that the honourable member contain himself until the figures come out at the end of the next financial year, when he will see a substantial improvement in passanger carriage not only on the Pacific route but also on all routes that Qantas operates throughout the world. I will certainly check on the figures and refer the matter to my colleague in another place. 
A considerable amount of the preparatory work in relation to the proposed Dartmouth dam has been completed by the Victorian department concerned on behalf of the River Murray Commission and the governments involved. That includes a lot of the necessary earthworks, necessary access roads and clearing. We are now in the position where tenders for the major construction work will be called in the near future. As to the actual timing of the conclusion of the work on the main dam, it is not possible at this point of time to give an exact date. Of course the delay by South Australia in taking action regarding the agreement has, as the honourable member would be well aware, put the programme back at least 18 months. But, taking that into account, we hope that the reappraisal of a new time factor when agreement was ultimately reached, will work out without any further delay. I can assure the honourable member that the Commonwealth is as anxious as the other governments involved to ensure that this vitally important work is concluded as quickly as possible. 
Mcmahon ministry 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) MacRobertson Miller Airline Services, operating in Western Australia, has entirely replaced its Fokker Friendship fleet with pure jet Fokker (F.28) aircraft. The extent to which Fokker Friendships are replaced on other services by jet aircraft will depend upon the particular circumstances of the various route networks. The F.28 and other available medium sized jet aircraft such as the BAC 1-11 and the Boeing 737 are all larger than the F.27 and traffic development needs to occur, or to be reliably anticipated, if the larger jet aircraft are to operate economically at similar service frequencies. In these circumstances it is difficult to predict when further replacements of F.27's with jet aircraft will take place but it is the airlines' practice to keep fleet requirements under review. 
Many aerodromes now serviced by Fokker Friendship aircraft would require upgrading to enable them to accommodate medium jet aircraft. This applies to both aircraft movement area and terminal area facilities. It is Government policy to finance the upgrading of the aircraft movement area and to join with Local Governments in upgrading the terminal area on a 50/50 basis wherever it is agreed that introduction of these jet services is justified. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
You are referring to a project which is under the control of the New South Wales Maritime Services Board to whom the question may be more appropriately addressed. It is known that each step of the project is being subjected to model tests. No adverse effects on the 16/34 Runway are expected. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department and I were aware of negotiations between Magellan Petroleum (Australia) Ltd, and Pacific Lighting Gas Development Co. for the export of natural gas from the Palm Valley fields, conditional upon Commonwealth Government approval, and have had preliminary discussions with both parties. 
Magellan Petroleum (Australia) Ltd, and Pacific Lighting Gas Development Co. have jointly submitted a conditional agreement for the export of natural gas for consideration by the Government. 
Details of the conditional agreement are confidential at this stage. 
The Government will be taking into account all aspects of the supply and demand for natural gas, including the future Australian requirement for this premium fuel, in its consideration of this matter. 
The honourable member is correct when he states that, for an agreement to come into force, it must have the consent of all parties concerned. In this case the parties are the Commonwealth and the 6 States. We had a problem at the time in relation to this particular agreement with one State - South Australia. It was not the fault of South Australia in this case that there was a delay because we had continuing discussions in relation to a certain matter. Ultimately agreement was reached between the Commonwealth and South Australia and finally the proposal was agreed to by all the other States. It was only at that point of time that the agreement which is now before the Parliament for ratification came into force. If there were any points of dispute from one State, that would further delay the ratification of the agreement. I hope that the Bill, which has now come back from the Senate with an amendment and which I understand will be dealt with in this House today, will go through both Houses again expeditiously and so allow us to implement the agreement which has now been finalised with the States concerned. 
* See page 1539. 
Pursuant to section 32b of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Power Act 1949-1966, I present the Twenty-third Annual Report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
Pursuant to Section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970-1971, I present the Second Annual Report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I move: 
That the Senate's amendment be disagreed to, but that in place thereof the following amendment be made: 'In the Schedule, at the end of clause 9, add "and shall ensure that environmental factors relating to the planting have been considered".' 
Each of the States has expressed strong objections to inclusion in the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States relating to softwood forestry of clause 9a as proposed by the Senate. The absence of reference to the 'environment' in the originally proposed agreement does not mean that this important field has been ignored; in fact environmental aspects of forestry activities are very much in mind in the formulation of forestry programmes throughout Australia and the very expression 'sound forestry . . . practices' in paragraph 9 of the original agreement contemplated full recognition of the effects of forestry activities on the environment. State forest services are autonomous and they operate under their own Forest Acts. The powers and duties of each forest service include not only the management of forest areas for the production of wood, but also include the management, protection and use of forests for non-wood benefits, for example, soil conservation, aesthetics, water catchments, provision of habitats for native fauna and public recreation. 
The use of public land comes under the scrutiny not only of the forest services but also other government departments and bodies concerned with land use. Machinery exists within the States for the examination of areas before dedication as State forest. The responsible attitude of State governments to land use is exemplified in Victoria where a Land Conservation Council has been established under statute and whose membership may include both government and private members. The function of the Council is to investigate and make recommendations in respect to the use of public land. In addition, there are established in New South Wales and Victoria Ministries responsible especially for the environment. As far as possible State forest services acquire land, previously cleared for agriculture, for pine planting. The Bill encourages the purchase of land by providing for the State to receive from the Commonwealth the same proportion of funds spent on acquiring land as they receive for other plantation establishment costs. South Australia acquires all its land from private interests, and in New South Wales, of some 210,000 acres of plantation, about threequarters are on land that has at some stage been used for agriculture. 
It is accepted that softwood plantations do modify the flora and fauna of an area. However, it is expected that the area of softwood plantations established by the year 2000 will represent less than 1 per cent of the native forest and open woodland, scrub and brushland which provides the habitat for much of our native fauna. The establishment of plantations under this Agreement will be extensions of existing blocks of plantations and in areas where the sight of softwood plantations is familiar. The requirement of a report by an independent expert would disrupt the programme, thereby aggravating rural unemployment and wasting the effort already expended in preparation for planting. 
The Australian Forestry Council, which recommended the softwood programme, has demonstrated a responsible attitude to the environment by endorsing a Forestry and Wood-based Industries Development Conference to be held in 1974. The conference will recognise the importance, not only of economic matters concerning forests and forest industries, but also social and environmental aspects of forestry and forest industries. The Council has also established liaison with the newly formed Environment Council. Whilst the Government has no objection to including in the Agreement a form of words that emphasises the need to protect the quality of the environment, it would not appear desirable to dictate a precise procedure for the Forestry Council and the forest services to follow in undertaking a task to which they have diligently addressed themselves in the past. The amendment that I have proposed to clause 9 of the Agreement will ensure that planting is carried out each year efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry and financial practices and that environmental factors are considered. It is also recommended that similar special reference to the environment should be considered in any future agreements. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Qantas will introduce its fifth Boeing 747 into service later in the year, and it may then have, surplus aircraft capacity for a time. The Company is considering the disposal of 2 Boeing 707s in this context, but a firm decision has not yet been taken. 
There is no proposal for Qantas to cease operations across the Atlantic in 1972. 
Because of the fluid nature of the air transport industry it is not practicable to plan as far ahead as 5 years, except in general terms. Qantas maintains forward projections for shorter periods than 5 years, which are kept under continuous review and varied from time to time as necessary. 
Fifty-two Qantas staff have ceased service with the company under the arrangement for voluntary, retrenchment during the last  18  months This scheme of voluntary retrenchment was only introduced in March 1972, and the retirements mentioned have occurred since then. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of National Development for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer  to  the honourable member's question: 
The Government has recently decided and announced that, as an integral part of its review of the 2-airline policy, TAA will be licensed to operate on the Perth-Darwin route via Port Hedland. such operations not to commence before June 1973 and future expansion by TAA on the route to be phased in in such a way as notto give TAA equal access with MacRobertson Miller Airline Services before June 1975. 
This gradual introduction of TAA services will have regard to the state of traffic on the route from time to time and is designed to minimise any disruptive effect on the staffing of MacRobertson Miller's present operations. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
The Noise Exposure Forecast,along with similar systems developed in the United Kingdom and Europe, has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organisation as an acceptable standard for the measurement of aircraft noise nuisance. It is among the best available techniques which nevertheless could be open to improvement with further experience. This would be the expected evolution of a technique which quite unavoidably is based on subjective judgment 
The Commonwealth responsibility is to gauge noise nuisance levels. It is a State and Local Government responsibility to interpret those levels for which there is some United States guidance material insofar as the Noise Exposure Forecasting technique is concerned. 
The Victorian Housing Commission adjusted its plans near Melbourne Airport. Some of these developments are within the 25 NEF contour which, in accordance with the US-based guide, is suitable for residential subject to the attention of prospective purchasers being drawn to the possible onset of a noise problem. 
As mentioned earlier, land use zoning near airports and related matters are the responsibility of State and Local Government authorities. 
I am not quite sure what the relevant documents are in relation to the question, but I assume that the honourable member is referring to a proposed contract between the Magellan and Pacific Lighting companies. In those circumstances, any information which is provided by companies to the Government, of course, is confidential and obviously could not be tabled. I can only repeat that the Government has made its policy in relation to liquefied natural gas. The position is that it has been taken under export control, and no permits for its export will be issued until such time as we are satisfied that Australia's requirements can be met. Secondly, consideration will be given to granting permits to export liquefied natural gas from reserves which are located in substantial quantities in remote areas where there is little likelihood of it being a viable proposition to market it domestically and where the States concerned recommend export. We have discussed this matter in detail with all the States over recent months. I am sure from my conversations with them that they concur in the policy that we have adopted in relation to the present position. I should, of course, qualify this by saying that our natural resources policy must always be flexible because, at present, we do not know exactly what the final proven reserves will be in relation to Palm Valley, the deposits in South Australia, Bass Strait, the North West shelf or any other area in Australia. We are hopeful that the indications that are there determined will show that we have very substantial deposits. We must assess our requirements over a 50-year period. 
However, in relation to the Palm Valley situation, I can assure the honourable member that the submission that has been made to the Government for its consideration by the Magellan company and the Pacific Lighting Co., of which I informed the House a few weeks ago, is now being examined by the Government. We have had close discussions with the Australian industry and with the State concerned, and before any decision is made all these points will be carefully examined and the matter will be submitted to the Government for final decision. Under the present circumstances, as the policy now applies, I would say that the chances of the Government granting export permits for gas from Palm Valley are a little remote. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) A site has been recommended. It ls believed to be operationally acceptable and has the support of the Kalgoorlie and Boulder Councils. Planning of the new airport, for Government consideration, is proceeding in co-ordination with the Council's town planning consultants. The timing of this project will be influenced by public demand for air services, the expected need to further expand Kalgoorlie's city limits and aerodrome local ownership negotiations with Kalgoorlie and Boulder Councils. 
Pursuant to Section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1966, I present the 20th annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with financial statements and the  Auditor-General's  report on those statements. 
1 understand the honourable member's interest in this matter because it is a very important industry, in fact a major industry as far as his State is concerned. Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition asked the Prime Minister a question relating to this matter but on a specialised aspect concerning an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States on the subject of the exploration and exploitation of off-shore petroleum resources. He referred also to an annexure to that agreement which left it open for continuing consultations between the Commonwealth and the States. The Prime Minister discussed this matter with me and I am pleased to inform the Leader of the Opposition that there are continuing consultations in these fields. The agreement was signed and mirror legislation passed in 1967. At that time there was set up a select committee of the Senate to deal with certain matters concerning off-shore petroleum. 
In 1968 the Australian Minerals Council was established and that is the main forum in which discussions are undertaken in relation to all petroleum matters, including natural gas. Over the last year or so the matters have been discussed at regular intervals by Ministers in the Council and by the Standing Committee. The Council at the moment comprises 2 Premiers who are Ministers for Mines and all the representative Ministers from all States and the Commonwealth. So there are continuing consultations between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to the matter raised yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition. In addition, in view of certain matters that have arisen recently in relation to the very rapidly developing natural gas industry in Australia, I did take the opportunity, because there will not be another meeting of the Minerals Council for some months, of personally discussing the question of natural gas and policies relating to it with all the State Ministers concerned. This occurred during the last month or so. In addition, there are matters under discussion by a special group set by the Standing Committee of the Australian Minerals Council. I am pleased to inform the House that there is not only continuing consultation but expanding consultation between the Commonwealth and the States in this field. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to make a ministerial statement on Australia's natural resources. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A firm of consultants was recently selected to carry out a benefit/cost comparison of alternative proposals for a second airport for Sydney, as well as alternative schemes for the development of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
Yes. 
A number of Australian consulting firms did lodge proposals, some involving associations with overseas firms. 
Very careful consideration was given to all proposals received. The successful firm was chosen because its proposals were considered most suitable to the requirements for this economic evaluation. 
and (6) Australian firms have been involved in overseas transportation studies. The Government uses Australian consultants extensively as it is the Government's policy to do so whenever suitably qualified and experienced experts are available. 
The firm selected for the Sydney Airport benefit/cost study has been required to include in the study team experts seconded from Commonwealth and State Government organisations and also Australian consulting firms, subject to such persons having suitable qualifications and experience. In this way, it is intended to retain substantial experience of this complex study in Australia. Several Australian experts are already working in the study team. 
I appreciate the interest the honourable member is showing in this matter. In fact, I can join with him because the area of Darling Downs, as be knows, is adjacent to his own area of Maranoa. If I had had the opportunity, perhaps I would have asked myself a question on the same matter. The problem of supplies of motor spirit in Queensland is perhaps more difficult than that of other States. This goes back to the strike which took place some time ago when the Ampol refinery had some maintenance problems with its catalytic cracker. The difficulty at that time was that it could have no staff working on maintenance. The situation shortly after the end of the strike was that the cat cracker broke down altogether and it meant that total production from the Ampol refinery, which is one of 2 refineries in Queensland and on which Queensland depends very substantially for supplies, was reduced to about 30 per cent to 40 per cent. Maintenance work was carried on after the breakdown had occurred, and it was brought back into production just a few days ago. The problem was assisted by the diversion of tankers to several ports in Queensland. Of course, this does pose a problem of distribution from those centres to inland areas. 
However, there is a co-ordinating committee which consists of representatives of the State Government, the Commonwealth and the industry. This committee is doing everything possible to ensure that supplies are maintained over the whole of the State on the best possible distribution basis. I am very pleased to inform the House that today rail tankers will be commencing to move from Brisbane to the Darling Downs and Maranoa areas and that the situation should be overcome substantially in a matter of days. I suggest, however, that the situation can be assisted by the public not undertaking panic buying. Perhaps I could pay a tribute to the people of Queensland for not buying in a panic fashion during this period of shortage. As a result, the distribution methods which have been adopted have been more successful. I think that, in view of the fact that the 2 refineries are now working at full production, additional tankers have now been diverted to Queensland and rail tankers are now carrying supplies out into the distant areas, this problem should be resolved in the very near future. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Qantas did receive a study, from the British Aircraft Corporation concerning the operation of Concorde aircraft on the basis of a one class service at fares higher than prevailing first class levels. 
(a) Qantas frequently receives studies from various aircraft manufacturers purporting to show that their aircraft can be operated economically. Normally, Qantas would make the results of such studies available to the Government only if after detailed evaluation of the data, it considers the conclusions are directly relevant to the Government's consideration of proposals by the company to purchase aircraft. 
As Qantas is not expected to complete its detailed economic and technical evaluation of the Concorde aircraft until well into 1973, it is not proposed to table in Parliament economic studies relating to the Concorde prepared by the British Aircraft Corporation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following petroleum exploration permits, the whole or part of which are closer to the coast of Indonesia or Portuguese Timor than the coast of Australia, were granted under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act of the Commonwealth and of the State of Western Australia: WA-15-P, WA-16-P, WA-17-P, WA-36-P. 
The permits were granted in 1968 for  a  period of 6 years. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As has already been announced, Trans-Australia Airlines will be licensed to operate services between Perth and Darwin, but the approval to do so will not involve the Commonwealth in any commitment to upgrade airport facilities at any proposed intermediate stopping place to cater for a particular aircraft type. 
No specific proposals have yet been submitted by TAA following the announcement of this decision. TAA's proposals will be considered when they are received. 
Regional Conference on Drug Trafficking (Question No. 6414) 
The position in southern Queensland - I refer particularly to the rural areas - and also the northern part of New South Wales is that these areas are still having problems regarding supplies of petrol which to a substantial degree come from the 2 refineries in Brisbane. If the major refinery is back in full operation this week, as we anticipate, unless further industrial problems arise, petrol supplies from the refinery should be back to normal in a few days. But the refineries have to get supplies to the bulk depots and then face the bigger problem of distribution to resellers. An undertaking was given last week, after the conclusion of the strike which held up production in the Ampol refinery, to release quantities that were held in stock, principally in the Ampol refinery but also in the Amoco refinery. That did allow some supplies to get out by rail and road tankers to rural areas and that movement is continuing at present. 
Although as much as possible is being done by the industry committee and the co-ordinating committee in the State, it will be some time, I am afraid, before the supply situation can be considered to be back to normal. However, in view of the urgency of the wheat and barley harvesting situation every effort is being concentrated on trying to get supplies as quickly as possible into those areas. I can give an assurance that the State Government has the situation as much in hand as is possible under the circumstances. The industry is fully aware of the urgency of getting supplies to the rural areas and everything possible is being done in view of the existing circumstances. 
Minister for National Development) - For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 31st March 1972, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
by leave - I wish to make a statement to the House relating to the tabling of Department of Civil Aviation papers in the Jetair matter. An undertaking was given by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that he would table any DCA papers relating to the purchase by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Jetair DC3s. In connection with this matter, the Department of Civil Aviation was advised formally by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the purchase of the aircraft and the Department advised its Minister accordingly. The two relevant papers are now tabled. 
It will be noted that the letter from the Department of Foreign Affairs quotes a figure of$270,000. This figure was repeated in the advice to the Minister. The correct price was$275,000 and this was recorded in the Department of Foreign Affairs copy of this letter which has been tabled in the Senate. Subsequent inquiry by the Department of Foreign Affairs established that the correct price was $275,000. A note of action on DCA files recorded this and this document is also tabled. I present the following papers: 
Jetair Australia Limited - DC3 aircraft - 
Department of Civil Aviation documents relating to the purchase of DC3 aircraft from Jetair. 
Department of Civil Aviation documents - 
Ministerial statement, 17 October 1972. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a second statement. 
One motion to take note of the 2 papers will be proposed so that honourable members will be able to deal with both papers. 
1 wish to make a further statement in relation to the tabling of Department of Civil Aviation papers in the Jetair matter. The House will recall that the Prime Minister promised the Leader of the Opposition to table any papers in DCA relating to 'the ownership, licensing and exemption' of the Viscount aircraft acquired by Jetair. A careful search has now been made of all DCA papers and the following facts have emerged: The 2 Royal Australian Air Force Viscount aircraft were sold by the Department of Supply. One of the conditions of the contract of sale was that the aircraft should be exported overseas. This condition was imposed as a result of a request by the Department of Civil Aviation which had as its motivation its desire to protect the 2 airline policy. The relevant clauses in the tender documents were: 
Restrictions - The Lodgement of tenders is restricted to the following - 
Overseas buyers; 
Local buyers who undertake to export the aircraft outside Australian territory; 
Holders of Australian airline licences, currently operating aircraft of the type offered. 
Tenderers are required to clearly indicate below to which of the above categories his offer applies. 
Failure to supply this information may result in the tender being considered informal. 
Export - Other than tenderers in category (c) above, buyers shall undertake to export the aircraft outside Australia and its Territories and should note that the aircraft will not be delivered except upon production of approval for exportissued by the Department of Civil Aviation under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations and satisfactory evidence that the buyer has arranged for the export of the aircraft to a place outside Australia and its Territories. 
The successful tenderer for these aircraft, namely,  Mr Peter  Hookway, an Australian agent for several overseas aircraft companies, sold the aircraft to Alda Corporation, Houston, Texas. An export licence was issued to the Alda Corporation and at that stage the Department of Civil Aviation and the Department of Supply had no reason to doubt that the aircraft would be exported. However, the Alda Corporation resold the aircraft to Jesp Investments Pty Ltd, a nominee company for Messrs Jepsen and Boland, a firm of Sydney solicitors. The Department of Civil Aviation had ascertained that this firm were solicitors for  Mr Alexander  Barton of Jetair Australia Ltd who, in another capacity, arranged finance for the solicitors' purchase. When it became known to the Department of Civil Aviation that these aircraft were within the effective ownership and control of  Mr Barton,  the Minister and the DirectorGeneral brought to his attention that it would be contrary to Government policy for these aircraft to be operated within Australia and as a result  Mr Barton  agreed to sell them overseas. The aircraft were subsequently exported to America. They were never ued in any commercial operation within Australia. Accordingly there are no papers relating to licensing or exemption pursuant to regulation 203. No licences or exemptions were ever applied for. The relevant papers relating to ownership and export of the aircraft will be tabled when I finish this statement. 
I should add that no promises were given to  Mr Barton,  to Jetair, or to anyone con- nected with the company, in return for  Mr Barton's  decision to export the 2 Viscounts. Nor, in fact, did Jetair subsequently get any licences to engage in airline operations or to import any aircraft. The House will see from the documents which I will table in a moment that the Department of Civil Aviation played no part at all in the purchase by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the DC3 aircraft and also that its only role in connection with the Viscount aircraft - the documents I will table will show that - was to take all steps within its capacity to ensure that the aircraft were exported overseas, and in fact they were. 
I would like to make it quite clear that when I make the statement that the Department of Civil Aviation played no part in the purchase I mean that in fact there was no indication in records that a part was played by the Department. But, of course, officers from various departments verbally seek advice and under some circumstances officers from one department or another could verbally seek advice in relation to certain matters. That is a normal process. But the point is that the records do not reveal that any part was played by the Department of Civil Aviation. We have been through the various files. In accordance with the promise made by the Prime Minister I now lay on the table of the House copies of all the various papers which have been taken from the files of the Department of Civil Aviation in relation to the Jetair matter. I present the following papers: 
Jetair Australia Limited - Viscount aircraft - 
Department of Civil Aviation documents relating to the ownership and export of Viscount aircraft acquired by Jetair. 
Department of Civil Aviation documents - Ministerial statement, 17 October 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
As the honourable member knows, the first grant made under the new national water resources development programme was an amount of $ 12.8m for the Monduran Dam, which is associated with the whole Bundaberg irrigation scheme. At the same time, Queensland is undertaking the barrage arrangements towards the mouth of the river adjacent to Bundaberg. The Monduran Dam is designed to store water from the Kolan 
River and to utilise a diversion scheme into the Burnett. That is a major part of the Bundaberg scheme that is to be undertaken. As the honourable member will recall, I had the opportunity of firing the first charge at the dam some time ago. 
This was the first allocation made under the new programme and I am sure it is appreciated by, the people of the district. However, subsequent to that, the Queensland Government has been giving consideration to the second phase, which envisages the development of another water storage and also some channels to provide irrigation into other areas, all associated with basically the same scheme. Just a few weeks ago the Queensland Government, through its Premier, submitted to the Prime Minister a proposal for consideration in relation to phase 2. The Queensland Government has been informed that this matter will receive the usual consideration, which means, of course, that it will have to be studied by a special survey team comprised of officers of my Department assisted by officers of other departments, including the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. That is the normal procedure and of course, it will take quite some time. In addition, a number of other submissions have been made by Queensland in accordance with the priority which has been placed by it. Those matters will have to be considered in the order in which they have been submitted to the Commonwealth by Queensland. 
We will not know whether this project will be accepted under the scheme until we have had the opportunity of conducting a full survey and the interdepartmental committee which will have to examine it on behalf of the Commonwealth has had the opportunity of doing so and reporting to the Government on it. So one should not expect any urgent decision to be made. But I can assure the honourable member, and the honourable members on the Government side of the House who have raised this matter recently, that the matter will be fully considered and handled as expeditiously as possible. The decision as to what will ultimately happen - whether a Commonwealth grant will be made to cover the whole or part of the project - will be made after a submission has been put to the Government on the details submitted by the Queensland Government. 
The honourable member has shown a great deal of interest in this matter. In fact, he has discussed it with me on a number of occasions in the past and I know that he has raised the matter in the Government members' National Development Committee. It is a matter of great interest to Victoria because the utilisation of its brown coal reserves is of vital importance to the economy of the State. However, it is not correct to say that the petroleum and natural gas reserves in Australia have the limited life that was suggested in the Press report referred to by the honourable member. In the next 2 or 3 years our petroleum reserves will be sufficient to cater for about 70 per cent of our total requirements. After that, unless any further major discoveries are made, that percentage will decline. 
We are just emerging as a producer of natural gas and our reserves are not yet proven, although we believe that will be a major world producer when the reserves are ultimately proven. This will take a couple of years. 
The hydrogenation process for producing motor spirit from brown coal has been examined in the past and some studies have been undertaken. So far the indications are that it would not be a viable process, although there is still a lot more work to be done in this field. However, there is an aspect of the production equivalent of natural gas from coal on which a lot of work has been done in the United 
States of America. We hope that the research work that has been undertaken there will be of some benefit to Australia. 
I am sure we all have a full appreciation of the expertise that is available in this field in Tasmania and the splendid work these people have done in the development of the hydro-electric system in that State. It is also a fact, of course, that when the existing scheme is completed most of the major projects in that field will terminate. But, as the honourable member has pointed out, this means that there will be available to be absorbed into industry in other parts of 
Australia a relatively large number of people with special skills. Within whatever capacity I can employ 1 certainly will try to assist in this regard, although it is principally a matter which concerns the State governments. I would point out that the major instrumentality that we have in the consultancy field, as far as the Commonwealth is concerned - one which is now doing an excellent job - is the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which, as honourable members know, has absorbed a fair proportion of the skilled personnel from the Snowy Mountains Authority who are now fitting in in a splendid way in conjunction with private consultants in Australia and who are doing some very big jobs overseas. The Corporation is expanding all the time. I will certainly take up the matter with the Corporation to see whether there is any way in which it can assist. 
That was a very long question. It is interesting to hear the Leader of the Opposition referring to this matter because my colleague, the honourable member for Herbert, has raised the matter in the House on a number of occasions. I think the last occasion was on a Thursday morning during the grievance day debate, when he asked whether consideration could be given to the matter. I do not think there is any confidentiality regarding the fact that the Queensland Government has submitted a case to the Commonwealth for consideration under the national water resources development programme in relation to water storage on the Ross River. Perhaps I could indicate without breaching any confidence that there are some complications in this application. The position of course is that the only grounds on which this matter could be considered would be in relation to flood mitigation because other than that it is principally related to the urban water storage system. Under the national water resources development programme it is possible to consider matters relating to flood mitigation but it is not possible, because the fund relates only to rural industries, to consider matters of direct urban consequence. These are dealt with under separate headings. 
The submission is still under consideration. No reply has yet been given to the Queensland Government in relation to this but I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that the matter is being carefully considered. There are legal implications as well as the straight out normal evaluation that is given to matters of this nature when they are submitted. But as soon as possible a decision will be made and the Prime Minister will relay that decision to the Premier of Queensland. I may also say without breaching confidence that the Queensland Government did mention this point in relation to the urban water supply system but asked whether there was any way in which it could be considered in relation to flood mitigation under this national fund. We have been looking at these aspects very carefully and considering what the honourable member for Herbert has raised on a number of occasions. As soon as possible a decision will be conveyed to the Queensland Government. 
Yes. 
I will see that it is recorded. The Prime Minister a'so extends his thanks to the Leader of the Opposition. 
It might not be unusual but it is still deplorable that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should seek to slide away from things which he is reported in Hansard as saying as recently as 30th September 1971. This Bill was introduced in April 1970 on his behalf. Until he became Prime Minister it remained on the notice paper in his name. In September last year he wanted it recorded that he thanked me for the tribute that I paid to the scholarly and constructive speech delivered on his behalf when that Bill was introduced, ls the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who preceded me in this debate, repudiating his Leader, the right honourable member for Lowe, in his former capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs or in his present capacity as Prime Minister, or is the Minister in the same state of indecision as is his Leader, the former Minister for Foreign Affairs? 
I conclude with a couple of other examples of where, not in the international field but in the domestic field, we have sought the co-operation of the States. It will be remembered that in 1958, and then with full reasons in 1959, the all-party Joint Committee on Constitutional Review recommended that there should be Commonwealth jurisdiction over companies and also restrictive practices. The then Attorney-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, the present Chief Justice, aspired to get uniform legislation on these subjects by co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. On restrictive trade practices not a single State government of his political persuasion was prepared to co-operate. The only Stares which were willing to co-operate had Labor governments. Finally, the Commonwealth had to legislate on its own in the restrictive practices field. Nevertheless, there was still an attempt to get a uniform companies law. We still have not got it. For over 12 years the principal law officers of the 7 governments in Australia have spent hundreds of hours meeting together, and their advisers have spent thousands of hours, trying to bring about a uniform company law for Australia. We still have not got it. 
That the question be now put. 
 First of all, 1 should like to mention that this will be the last lot of estimates that I will be handling in this House and 1 should like to express appreciation to all honourable members who have taken part in what I believe has been a very constructive debate. Certainly, the contributions have been hard hitting in one or two cases but nevertheless, they have been made with the object of obtaining information and I think that in every case they have been based on a sound foundation and have been constructive. 
A number of matters have been raised by honourable members to which I will reply briefly, in view of the time factor. Firstly, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  referred at length to matters concerning national development principally in relation to northern development with which, of course, he has had a very close association. I must express appreciation to the honourable member for Dawson for the constructive approach he adopted. I do not know whether he said all the good things first and was keeping the bad things until last and then did not have time to say them, but I shall give him credit for an intention to say only kind things on this occasion. The point he raised in relation to feasibility studies has been taken on board. I can assure the honourable member that the matters he raised will receive consideration. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  referred of course to matters that concern the northern part of Queensland. Timber production features prominently in the economy of that area. The honourable member for Herbert referred to the programme of softwood planting proposed by the Australian Forestry Council and sponsored financially by the Commonwealth. The new programme has just been approved. In fact, the legislation for the new programme finally went through only a few days ago. I am sure it will be of assistance as far as Queensland is concerned. The points he raised in relation to beef roads have been noted. I am sure that he will be happy as far as the proposals for the future are concerned. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  referred in detail in his initial comments to an arrangement through a subsidiary of Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Ltd whereby Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd has taken over the Avonmouth Smelter and is now marketing metal through that company into European Economic Community countries. We know about it. I cannot give the honourable member information regarding the details of the financial transactions. All we know is that CRA, through its principal company RTZ, organised this because of tariff problems related to the EEC. I refer to the tariff that is imposed against metals. Perhaps the raw materials could be imported but the prohibitive tariff would apply against the metals, principally lead and zinc. The arrangement is made now through Avonmouth for the manufacture of metals to provide an opportunity to continue to supply EEC countries with Australian raw materials processed at Avonmouth. That is the basis of the proposal. As to the financial details, if there is any real problem certainly we will look at the points the honourable member has raised. They may concern a State. They may have some effect as far as the new proposals being considered by the Commonwealth at the present time are concerned. However, we will examine the background of the details. As far as the request of the honourable member to have the matter submitted to a Senate select committee is concerned, I can only suggest that Senate select committees decide which matters they will examine, lt will be open to the honourable member to make a suggestion to a committee himself. 
On the question of the Green Paper which I submitted to- the Parliament a couple of weeks ago, the honourable member said that he thought this was prepared back in 1967. I am sorry, but he is completely wrong. The information is right up to date, in fact up to just a couple of weeks ago. It is an entirely new document which has been presented. I think he had in mind the White Paper which I had prepared just a couple of years ago and which in fact was not presented. This document is an uptodate version, perhaps, of what the White Paper would have been a couple of years ago. The honourable member referred to questions on notice. I will certainly see what I can do to expedite a reply to those questions. 
In regard to the policy on natural gas, 1 do not think I need elaborate on what I said in the Green Paper and which I have explained to the House on a number of occasions except the matter in relation to the contract which has been signed on a provisional basis between Magellan Petroleum Southern Pty Ltd and the Pacific Lighting Co. The contract has been submitted for consideration. As I pointed out to the House, in view of our present policy it seems unlikely that approval will be granted although we must fully examine every aspect of it. The points raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  are very pertinent to this. Until such time as we have full knowledge of our total reserves on the northwest shelf, in Palm Valley, Amadeus Basin, Cooper Basin and all those other areas it will be impossible really to assess what the future position will be in relation to our own requirements but a lot of work is being done in this field at the moment. In the meantime, the policy which I have enunciated will still apply. 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  made a very contsructive submission in relation to the petroleum industry and his survey, I think, is worthwhile reading and it would be of interest as far as the industry and Parliament ls concerned. The honourable member lor Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  did refer to the question of no plans for development. I have already referred to the Green Paper  -  r will not elaborate on that - which brings together all the policy aspects in relation to natural resource and energy development in Australia. I shall only refer him to that as a basis for all the policy points in relation to the various industries that are concerned. The honourable member referred to problems in the coal industry. This is a matter with which I dealt at great length on Monday night in a speech to the Coal Preparation Society of New South Wales. I can only suggest that I could send him a copy of that speech which would give him a lot of detail in relation to the future of the industry as we see it in Australia. 
The honourable member referred to the control of the petroleum industry by private companies, particularly overseas companies. Unfortunately from his point of view this is the wrong industry to pick on when referring to complete control by overseas companies because 1 suppose 'ii.it there is no industry more controlled by government than the petroleum industry where the distribution and the utilisation of local production is completely under control, where it is subsidised and where there is even price fixing as far as the industry is concerned in the field of motor spirits and other products. Also, export control applies to liquid petroleum and to natural gas. The Government has pretty substantial control as far as the petroleum industry is concerned and I am sure the honourable member should not bc concerned in relation to it. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  referred to the River Murray system and the salinity problems of that river. Many of the points which he raised are already covered in my statement but I do appreciate his constructive comments. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  referred to the Loch-Kimba proposal. A request was made for assistance to be granted by the Commonwealth. A further submission, as the honourable member stated, was made a few months ago and at the present time it is being examined. It was sent back for further information which has now being received and I hope to be in a position before long to give a decision on it. I cannot indicate whether it will be favourable or otherwise, but certainly the opportunity to study it is far more favourable at the moment than it was at the time of the first submission. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  raised the matter again in relation to scientists employed by the Tasmanian Hydro-electric Authority who will become available on the market in Australia for employment in other areas in the future. I can only refer the honourable member to the answer which I gave him during question time today. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  spoke about natural gas policy. I am afraid I cannot go into the details regarding this except to say that where exploration leases are granted in any State and in Commonwealth Territories this is a matter which is goverened by mirror legislation in relation to petroleum and it is a matter for approval by both the States and the Commonwealth. The honourable member did say that Australia had not signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Wc have in fact signed it and this was announced in the House. We did submit to the international atomic energy agency some proposals for amendments before the agreement was ratified. Most of those amendments that we suggested have been agreed to and the proposals should come back before long for consideration and ratification by the Government. 
The proposal to set up a uranium enrichment plant in Australia is not anything new. I have discussed this matter overseas for the last 2 years. It is reaching a stage at which within the next year or so some decision will have to be made in relation to it and that is why at the present time wc are trying to encourage the interest of Australian companies. We have bad some substantial success in Australian companies indicating an interest in joining a consortium to provide an enrichment plant in the future. But it is not correct to say that the gaseous diffusion system is out of date. It is the only system operating at the present time. It is the only system that will operate for some years in the future. The next 5 plants that will be constructed will be gaseous diffusion plants. We hope that the centrifuge system eventually will be successful but I believe it will take at least another 10 years before we could look forward to its being a proven viable proposition even at that point in time. On the question of studies being undertaken at the present time with the United States and France, these are in the early stages as elementary studies. We are having discussions with Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and West Germany in relation to these matters. I can assure the honourable member for Cunningham that all States and the Northern Territory have indicated their intense interest in establishing an enrichment plant within their borders and are co-operating with the Commonwealth to the utmost in this field. We believe that eventually an enrichment plant will be established in Australia. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred briefly to a matter which is of concern to him, namely, the development of the natural resources - principally natural gas - of the Northern Territory. I can assure him that the particular points he has mentioned today are well and truly in mind. I hope to be able to give him some information soon regarding the Mareenie area. The honourable member is vitally concerned about the establishment of a refinery in Alice Springs to service that area in the future. I hope to be able to provide some information to him in relation to that within a matter of weeks. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $81,059,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tabulation has been compiled using published information. 
Tonnage of iron ore exported to Japan in each of the last five years: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The range of general cargo rates on scheduled services is as follows: Sydney to London, $2.46 to $3.67 per kilo; London to Sydney, $3.85 to $5.78 per kilo. The particular rate applicable depends upon the weight of the consignment, with the lowest rates applying to consignments of 500 kilos or more. Lower rates apply for certain specified commodities carried between Sydney and London, and for shipments from London to Sydney presented in aircraft unit load devices. 
The reason for the difference is the disparity between the volume of air cargo sent to and from Australia 
The answer to the honourable member's question Ls as follows: 
The joint Commonwealth-Slate appraisal of the Burdekin Basin now in progress will of necessity take some years to complete. This is due to the vastness and diversity of the Burdekin River Basin and the complex problems involved in considering future water needs for urban, irrigation, power generation and industrial (including minerals) purposes as well as flood mitigation aspects. The honourable member will recall that I furnished some detailed information to him on this subject by letter of 12th April, 1972. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The particular rate applicable for the carriage of general cargo on scheduled air services depends on the weight of the consignment and the rates for carriage over the sectors referred to are: (a) London to Hong Kong $2.65 to $5.55 per kilo; (b) Hong Kong to Sydney $1.61 to $2.15 per kilo. 
The rates for the carriage of such cargo from London to Sydney are $3.85 to $5.78 per kilo. 
lt is not cheaper to send general cargo from London to Hong Kong by scheduled air services and to then send it from Hong Kong to Sydney. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a  second  time. 
The Air Navigation (Charges) Act imposes charges on the operators of aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airway facilities, meteorological services and search and rescue services provided, operated and maintained by the Commonwealth, and the purpose of this Bill is to increase the rates of air navigation charges, to introduce charges for airline training flights, and to make other desirable changes in the provisions of the Act. In 1971-72, the estimated cost of operating and maintaining airport, airway and meteorological facilities and services used by civil aviation operators amounted to some $113m. Revenue received by the Department of Civil Aviation in respect of the use of these facilities was approximately S33m, $23m coming from air navigation charges and $10m from airport commercial development, rentals and other miscellaneous sources. In addition, the Department of Customs and Excise collected about $1 9m in aviation fuel taxes. 
As is usual at this time each year, the Government has given consideration to the level of air navigation charges, having regard for the revenue and expenditure position which I have just mentioned and the economic circumstances in the air transport industry. The rates of charges were last increased as from 1st January 1971, but the operators of heavy jet aircraft recently incurred higher charges when concessions applied to these types under the provisions of paragraph 7 (3) of the First Schedule to the Act were removed because the airport facilities now available do not justify their continuation. The Government is aware that the civil aviation industry has experienced some problems in recent times, with a slowing down of traffic growth and rising costs making it difficult to maintain profitability. The aircraft operators have all advocated most strongly that no changes be made in the charges which they have to pay for the use of Commonwealth civil aviation airport and airway facilities. The cost of these facilities, however, continues to rise year by year, and the Government has a clear responsibility to see that gradual but reasonable progress is made towards the recovery of those costs from the users of the facilities. 
In previous years, increases in air navigation charges approved by the Parliament have generally been at the rate of 10 per cent. Although the charges were not changed last year, the Government has taken into account the factors I have mentioned earlier and has concluded that an average increase of only about 5 per cent should be applicable to the rates of charges payable by airline operators with effect from 1st December 1972. It has also decided that the economic state of the domestic general aviation industry does not warrant any increase in the charges payable for light aircraft used in charter, aerial work and private operations, and that some reduction in the charges applicable to ultra-light aircraft would be appropriate. These proposals will be made effective by the new scale of charges included in clause 7 of the Bill. This single scale replaces the 2 existing charging scales applicable to domestic and international aircraft, and it introduces metric weights into the Act. Apart from the first 2 weight brackets, it is a smooth type of scale which avoids the sudden increase in charges that have been a feature of the scales used in the charging system previously. 
The amendments incorporated in clauses 5 and 8 are designed to introduce charges for air crew training flights operated by the airlines. The Government recognises the vital part which crew training plays in maintaining Australia's outstanding safety record in civil aviation, and it was only after very careful consideration that a decision was taken to charge for the use of Commonwealth facilities on training flights. The total annual costs of the special jet training aerodrome at Avalon in 
Victoria alone amount to about Sim, and the airlines also use other Commonwealth aerodromes and facilities in their crew training activities. The modest charges now proposed will recover some of these costs without imposing an unacceptable burden on the airlines. Two types of charge are proposed - one for training flights which are operated between airports, at least one of which is owned by the Commonwealth, and the other for training flights confined to a single Commonwealth airport. 
The amendments proposed in clauses 3, 4 and 6 are minor in nature and are intended to improve the relevant provisions in the Act and to avoid a loss of revenue in special and unusual circumstances. Clause 9 adds further routes to the Table of Flights included in the Act and deletes and amends other routes already in that Table. These changes are deemed to be necessary in the light of developments in the provision of facilities and the present operating patterns of the airlines. Clause 10 amends the refund provisions of the Second Schedule to the Act, principally so that double-charging will not occur when airline training flights are operated with aircraft for which charges have been paid under that Schedule. Clause U will facilitate the specification of aircraft weights in the Commonwealth Gazette in metric units with effect from 1st December, when the proposed new rates of charges become effective. 1 commend the Bill. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. Recently 1 advised the House of decisions reached by the Government on several major matters of civil aviation policy. This Bill is designed to give effect to some of those decisions, namely the extension of the Government's 2-airline policy and the obligations placed on the major airlines as a pie-requisite to that extension. The main provision of the Bill approves the new 2 Airlines Agreement between the Commonwealth, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, and the Australian National Airlines Commission, a copy of which is attached as the Schedule to the Bill. This agreement was executed by the airline parties on 20tb October and by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  on behalf of the Commonwealth, on 21st October. It does not become effective, of course, unless and until it is approved by the Parliament. 
The present agreements on which the 2-airline competitive system is based are due to expire on 18th November, 1977. The new agreement extends those agreements, and the 3 together will be known as the 1952-1972 Airlines Agreement. The Commonwealth or the Company may determine the 1952-1972 Airlines Agreement by giving at least 5 years notice of termination after 31st December 1977, any determination by the Commonwealth requiring the consent of both Houses of the Parliament. It will be seen that paragraphs 5 to 9 of the 1972 Agreement are undertakings by the Company and the Commission regarding parallel scheduling of air services, the maintenance of rural air services, the promotion of lower air fares for tourist travel, the stimulation of air freight, and the restriction of flights in curfew periods. Paragraph 10 acknowledges that the Commonwealth may facilitate the provision of specialist freight and passenger services by operators other than the 2 major airlines within the framework of an economic 2-airline system, and paragraph 11 requires Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to furnish for presentation to the Parliament separate financial details relating to its airline activities. Paragraph 12 is a recognition by the airlines that the Commonwealth is entitled to recover the costs of civil aviation facilities. These are the matters which the Government said it would require the airlines to accept if the 2-airline system was to be extended, and it is gratifying to see that the parties have been able to reach satisfactory agreement on them. It was the original intention of the Government to include in this legislation provisions designed to protect the position of the Commonwealth in the event of the private enterprise airline having a certain degree of overseas ownership or control. It has been concluded that this aspect can best be covered by separate legislation, perhaps by means of legislation relating to industry generally rather than specifically to the airline industry. 
In announcing the Government's decision to extend the 2-airline policy, mention was made of the additional routes and opportunities to be given to the Government's own airline, Trans-Australia Airlines. As soon as applications for licences are received and departmental operational requirements are met, authorisations will be issued for TAA to commence services on the Perth-Port Hedland-Darwin route, the Darwin-Gove route, and the CairnsWeipaThursday Island route. In order to remove any doubts that may exist regarding TAA's powers to implement the Government's decisions, certain changes in the Australian National Airlines Act may be desirable, but the limited time available has precluded the drawing up of the necessary amending legislation. It is the intention of this Government, therefore, to introduce in the first sittings of the new Parliament a Bill amending the Act so that there is no question about TAA having the powers enabling it to engage in activities closely related to airline operation and to give effect to the Government's decisions. This Bill, together with the 1972 Airlines Agreement, is another milestone in the development of Australia's outstanding airline system. We can be proud of the safety record, the growth, and the stability of our airline industry, and I am confident that these characteristics will continue beyond 1977 with the encouragement and the guidelines established by the new agreement. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill is presented for the purpose of amending the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1970 in certain material respects. Section 17 (7.) of the Act now provides that salaries of officers of the Australian National Airlines Commission, other than the General Manager, which are above $5,000 per annum are subject to the approval of the Minister for Civil Aviation. This salary limit was adopted in 1959 and is clearly inappropriate in present day circumstances in view of the substantial increases in wage levels which have occurred since that date. In addition, it creates problems in dealing expeditiously with industrial matters affecting the numerous staff on awards when the salaries concerned are above this level. It is more appropriate that ministerial control should be exercised only in relation to the Commission's executives. The present salary of a Level 1 executive is $13,766 per annum, and the amount specified in the Bill approximates this salary level. In addition, provision is made so that the figure can be amended by regulation without the necessity to amend the Act every time the relevant salaries are increased. Section 31 of the Act authorises the Commission, with the approval of the Treasurer, to borrow such moneys as the Minister for Civil Aviation certifies are necessary for the Commission to meet its obligations or discharge its functions under the Act. Sub-section (5.) places a limit of $6m on the borrowings which may be outstanding at any time. 
A similar provision was removed from the Australian Coastal Shipping Act in 1966, and there does not appear to be any compelling reason why the Airlines Commission should continue to be placed in the present restricted situation. If the limitation were removed Parliament would still have control over the funds available to the Commission through the normal budgetary processes and borrowings, other than from the Government, would be subject to the approval of the Treasurer and the Minister. Also, the Commission is required to present its accounts and report annually to the Parliament, which provides a further avenue of Parliamentary supervision. Removal of the borrowing limitation would also facilitate the change of the Commission's accounting arrangements in relation to its superannuation schemes, to which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  referred in his Budget Speech and which was mentioned in my recent statement outlining Government decisions on civil aviation. In the light of all these considerations it is proposed that section 31(5) should be repealed. 
Pursuant to section 32(1) of the Act, the Minister for Civil Aviation, with the concurrence of the Treasurer and after consultation with the Airlines Commission, is required to determine a dividend target for the Commission for each financial year. The Commission is to be notified of this determination not later than one month before the commencement of the year. Obviously, the Minister and the Treasurer, in considering the matters to be taken into account in determining the dividend target as set out in section 32 (2) of the Act, should have available to them the latest possible information, and a budget submitted by the Commission in May is regarded as being the most appropriate basis on which to perform this task. In these circumstances, there is little time left before the determination has to be made; that is, by the end of May. It is intended, therefore, to remove the provision requiring the giving of one month's notice and at the same time to repeal section 32 (b) (ii) which becomes redundant with the change of the superannuation accounting arrangements. 
Section 37a of the Act sets out the requirements to be met by the Commission if it self-insures itself against certain risks. It provides for the maintenance of a prescribed account, and sets out the items to be charged against, or credited to, this account. It also requires the Commission to keep invested in Commonwealth securities an amount equal to the surplus in the account. It has been found that the items relating to the prescribed account now specified are not sufficiently precise. Also the surplus in the account, which really represents the profit on self insurance transactions, is not available to the Commission and the Commonwealth for any other purpose under any circumstances. The amendments proposed correct these defects. Section 37a (7), which relates to the period up to 1964 and is now redundant, is also to be repealed. 
Section 65 provides that the Commission may require any person injured in an accident on its services to be examined by a doctor nominated by the Commission. If any person fails to undergo such an examination, no damages are recoverable from the Commission in respect of the injury unless the failure to undergo the examination was reasonable in the circumstances, or the Commission was not prejudiced in its defence. These provisions do not exist under general law and consequently plaintiffs against the Commission have a special penalty imposed on them which could act unfairly against some persons. There is no reason why the Commission should be placed in this preferred position and, accordingly, it is considered desirable that the section should be repealed. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion  by  Mir Charles Jones) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One agreement for the export of natural gas is under consideration by the Government. This agreement relates to the possible export of natural gas from the Palm Valley field in the Northern Territory. No agreement for the export of natural gas has been approved. 
The application for approval for the export of natural gas from Palm Valley has been submitted by Pacific Lighting Gas Development Co., of California, and Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd, Magellan Petroleum (N.T.) Pty Ltd and Farmout Drillers NL have completed an agreement for the sale of gas to Pacific Lighting Gas Development Co. subject to Government approval for export 
Pacific Lighting Gas Development Co. is a United States' corporation. Shareholdings in the remaining companies are as follows: 
Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd: As at 4th July 1972 the published share holding was as follows: 54.1 per cent Magellan Petroleum Corporation - USA 21.1 per cent Pantepec International 
Inc.- USA  24.8 per cent Australian Shareholders. Magellan Petroleum (N.T.) Pty Ltd: 30 per cent United Canso Oil and Gas 
Ltd - Canada 16.333 per cent Magellan Petroleum Corporation - USA 53.666 per cent Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd- USA/ Australia Farmout Drillers N.L.: Farmout Drillers N.L. is a subsidiary of Flinders Petroleum N.L. Longreach Oil N.L. has a considerable holding in Flinders Petroleum N.L. There is no known appreciable overseas ownership in either Flinders Petroleum NX. or Longreach Oil N.L. Equity holdings in the Palm Valley farmout are held as follows: 81.25 per cent Magellan Petroleum (N.T.) Pty Ltd 9.375 per cent Freeport of Australia Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Freeport Sulphur Company of New York, USA) 9.375 per cent Farmout Drillers N.L. 
and (5) The agreement is between private firms. See above. 
and (7) The Company has stated that the agreement relates to production of more than 600 million cubic feet per day and is for a duration of 25 years. Other details of the conditional agreement are confidential at this stage. 
VIP Flight  (Question No. 6404) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has been decided that the Commonwealth Government will not provide financial assistance for the Eton water conservation project. This project is not considered to have sufficient merit from the national viewpoint to justify the provision of such assistance under the National Water Resources ] Development Programme. The Premier of Queensland has been advised by the Prime Minister of the above decision. 
I did read some comment recently on a somewhat similar matter. As the honourable member will be aware, at present no arrangements have been made for supersonic transport commercial services. The British Aircraft Corporation and its French counterpart are endeavouring to sell the Concorde throughout the world. I understand that they have several firm orders for these aircraft but the major airlines that operate from Australia at the moment have not yet made any decision in relation to services. However, in anticipation that there could be services operating with this aircraft in the future the Australian Department of Civil Aviation, in conjunction with its overseas counterparts, has been carrying out some examination of possible routes. The information that the honourable member has provided in his question will certainly be taken into account. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1970, I present the 27th annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
 Mr Speaker,  mayI have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this BillI should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Australian National Airlines Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
In opening the debate for the Opposition the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  referred to the introduction of this measure at a late hour in this Parliament. He indicated that, in his view, it was an entirely new measure being introduced at this point of time. He knows that that is not correct, because, on 30th August the honourable member for Newcastle himself responded at length to a statement which I made in this House on behalf of the. Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and which dealt with all the matters that are covered by this legislation. This measure merely ratifies what was outlined by the Minister for Civil Aviation in a statement in the Senate and in a statement which I made in this House on 30th 
August 1972. The suggestion of hastily introducing legislation at the end of a sitting is completely refuted because the matter was dealt with some months ago and was clearly outlined. The legislation now is merely ratifying what was outlined in that statement. 
It is very interesting to note that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  apparently disagrees with the basis of the 2-airline policy. He spent most of his time being critical of the private company concerned in the Agreement, and I judge from his remarks that he disagrees with the basic principle of the 2-airline policy. I do not know whether that would be a misrepresentation, but I assume from his comments that it would be a fairly accurate interpretation. If it is an accurate interpretation he is in conflict with his colleague the honourable member for Newcastle who, on 30th August, made some rather favourable comments on the statement that I made then. I thank him for those comments. They are recorded at page 887 of Hansard. He said that it was an excellent paper and that he then wanted to deal with a number of matters relating to it. In response to a question I asked him in an earlier debate, as to whether the Australian Labor Party agreed with the 2airline policy, he stated quite categorically that it did agree with the 2-airline policy and would continue it. Apparently there is some conflict and the honourable member for St George has not discussed the matter at too great a length with his colleague. However, the position is set out quite clearly in the Agreement. I will refer in a moment to the question of the introduction of the undertakings given to TransAustralia Airlines. 
The honourable member for Newcastle referred to the matter of parallel schedules, and quite rightly so. This is a matter that has been of concern to the Government as well as to the public for some considerable time and it has been reviewed on a number of occasions. I will not read out the changes that have been effected over the years to improve the situation, but certainly some very substantial improvements have been made. It is extremely difficult to change the situation too radically as far as the major trunk route between Melbourne and Sydney is concerned, to which the honourable member for Newcastle referred, because of the number of flights made in the one day. But, even so, there may still be some opportunity for improvement under those circumstances. The honourable member for Newcastle has not observed, but will be pleased to note, that there is in the agreement an opportunity for this matter to be reviewed. It is hoped that the new agreement will result in an improvement on the present position. 
The subject of the Government's policy in relation to the imposition of a curfew at certain airports in Australia also was raised. This matter was referred to by not only the honourable member for Newcastle but also the honourable member for St George. The position, as both honourable members know, is that the scheduling of jet flights into and out of Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. is not permitted. This policy is strictly enforced. But there are occasions when, because of unusually high traffic density or an emergency due to some operational deficiency or weather conditions, permission is given to break the curfew. In the case of an unusually high traffic density it is given only by the Minister for Civil Aviation. It is given by certain senior officers in relation to other operational conditions. Beyond that the curfew is applied rigidly and adhered to to the greatest possible degree. It is recognised that some problems still exist in this field. We can only ensure that the points which have been raised In relation to this matter are taken into account. I will certainly ensure that the points which have been raised principally by the honourable member for St George are considered by my colleague in the Senate. I can only give the assurance again that the policy which is in operation at the present time will be maintained. 
Reference was made to the use of superannuation funds and the change that is now contemplated in this agreement. I did point out in a statement I made in the House - I shall merely quote one paragraph from it - that the changes which have been made in relation to TAA superannuation funds will mean that TAA's superannuation arrangements will be similar to those adopted by over 30 other Commonwealth instrumentalities, including the Australian Coastal 
Shipping Commission, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. It is to bring TAA into line with the majority of other Commonwealth instrumentalities that the changes have been made. 
One final point I want to mention is the requests that have been submitted by TAA in relation to amendments to the Australian National Airlines Act. I did indicate in my second reading speech last night that an undertaking had been given that certain action would be taken in this respect. This relates to matters such as aviation engineering work for outside organisation, which has been referred to by the honourable member for Newcastle, the handling of Commonwealth contracts, the establishment and operation of hotels and other kinds of accommodation, the establishment and operation of road transport services, the acquisition of subsidiaries or shareholdings in companies or the establishment of subsidiaries for the purpose of the Australian National Airlines Act, aerial work and charter operations, and operations in Papua New Guinea after independence, if requested. I wish to quote an extract from a letter which was written by the Minister for Civil Aviation to  Sir Frederick  Scherger on 18th October 1972, which states: 
As I previously informed you, it will be very difficult for the additional amendments to the Act to be dealt with before the present Parliament ends, but it has been the intention of the Government to introduce any legislation necessary to give effect to its presently stated policies on TAA's operations as soon as possible. I thought I had made this position quite clear to you in previous correspondence. 
I have only one paragraph to read. 
I have only an extract from it. I can incorporate it if the honourable member wishes. I will read the last paragraph, which is only a few more words. It reads: 
However, in the light of the reservations expressed by your Commission I now confirm that as far as this Government is concerned, the Commission has a firm assurance that, in the first sittings of a new Parliament a Bill amending the 
Australian National Airlines Act will be introduced so as to give TAA the powers requested in your letter to  Sir Donald  Anderson dated 13th October 1972 and that, in presenting the proposed Airlines Agreement Bill 1972 I will make a statement to that effect. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation made a statement to that effect in the Senate and I made a statement to that effect in the House of Representatives. 
I turn now to the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition. In view of the comments I have made on the fact that it is necessary to have projection some time ahead in relation to the enormous expenditure involved in the purchase of airline equipment and the fact that this agreement had been virtually completed in April of this year but was deferred because of the Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd negotiations and was finally completed only last week - although this Bill unfortunately came in only this week the conditions of the agreement were outlined in a statement made last August and had been practically finalised last April - we cannot accept the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition. 
I have been provided only with an extract from the letter. I am not aware of the full contents of the letter.I have read the full extract from it that has been given to me. I will discuss the matter with the Minister for Civil Aviation. If any relevant material has been excluded from the extract, perhaps it could be incorporated in Hansard. I have already quoted the relevant paragraphs of the letter. They are already in the Hansard record. However, I will discuss this matter with the Minister for Civil Aviation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Charles Jones's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
 I am afraid that we cannot accept the amendment put forward by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  As he has correctly stated, this present arrangement has been in operation since 1959 and it requires amendment to bring it up to date. The Act now provides that salaries above $5,000 are subject to the approval of the Minister. It is proposed that this level be raised to $13,700 so that salaries above this figure will be subject to the approval of the Minister. These salaries are those paid to the executive staff of Trans-Australia Airlines, and the people involved would include, for example, the General Marketing Manager; the Commercial Manager, Administration; the Chief Industrial Relations Officer; the Services Manager; the Manager, Flight Safety Investigation; the Managers, South Australia, Victoria and New Guinea; and the General Cargo Manager. They are the executive staff who will be affected by the provisions of this Bill. 
Under the circumstances we could not agree to the situation whereby approval for movement above the amounts that have been stated was deleted. The salaries which will be above the new limit which we propose to establish will be subject to ministerial approval, but the Minister himself does not have sole responsibility for these salaries because they are referred to him by the Higher Salaries Committee of Cabinet or the Officials Committee which was established to review salaries of senior Commonwealth officers. The approval is given in the normal way after consultation with the personnel. It is a matter now of up-dating the Act and adding a procedure which is contained in other Acts. We feel that it is necessary to have the Act up-dated in the circumstances. Amendments are being made in other respects in the same Bill. We believe that the up-dating should be carried out at the same time. Therefore, we cannot go along with the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tabulation has been compiled by my Department using published information. 
Tonnage of black coal exported to Japan in each of the last 5 years: 
As this will be the last debate in which I will be participating in this House I would like to establish a record by speaking for only a few brief minutes. On an occasion such as this, of course, obviously I could not be unkind to anyone, least of all the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  who has just finished his remarks. I do very much appreciate the comments that have been made by the speakers in this debate tonight. The honourable members for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and Macquarie all made personal references of a kindly type which I know in this House makes quite a distinct change. 
In view of the circumstances, I should like not only to thank those honourable members but also to indicate that the statement we have been debating is rather a unique one. To the best of my knowledge it is the first of its type produced by any developed country in the world. I know this from my knowledge of discussions with officials in Canada and the United States of America where they are prepar ing a similar document. I think that Australia was the first in that field. Therefore, I think it is a very important basic document and one on which we can build for the future. No doubt, many of the points that were mentioned tonight will be taken into consideration when any amendments are being considered to this document in future years. 
Finally, I should like to pay a tribute to the people who actually prepared this document - the officers of my Department. Over the last 2 years or so they have spent many a long hour on the preparation of material and, prior to the introduction of the statement into this House, they spent many all night sittings getting the final preparation completed. I am sure that our thanks as members of this House go to those dedicated public servants who did a tremendous service to us all. I pay a tribute to them on this occasion. I conclude by again thanking all those who took part in this debate for their comments and I indicate that the thoughts that are expressed in this document are those that have been emphasised to some degree by speakers on the Opposition side but are a blueprint for action by the Government in the future. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I have a strange feeling that for the second time in one night I will make a short speech, but I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that its brevity is not an indication of the significance of the occasion. I want to express my personal feelings for the friendship that has been extended to me by members on both sides of this House over a period of 23 years. I am sure that I have just as many friends on the Opposition side as I have on the Government side. That has been clearly indicated over the years. I would like also to join in the expression of thanks conveyed to you,  Sir, the  Clerks and Hansard staff and all those associated with the workings of this House, either inside the chamber or in other parts of the building. I would also like to thank the various staffs that work for us - the ministerial staffs and those who work in any administrative capacity in other fields - all of whom have helped to make this Parliament work successfully. I would even like to extend my thanks tonight to the members of the Press gallery for the kindness that they have shown to me over many years. In conclusion 1 would again extend my best wishes to those of my colleagues who are leaving in a voluntary capacity tonight and to extend my sincere best wishes to all those members who serve in this House in the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a and b) The Commission has disposed of solid, liquid and gaseous waste from Us Research Establishment at Lucas Heights. The radioactive wastes disposed of have contained only very low levels of radioactivity. 
The solid radioactive waste has consisted mainly of paper, cardboard, plastic sheeting and laboratory glassware, which was sealed in fibre drums or fibre-reinforced bitumen impregnated kraft paper bags. The remainder consisted of bulky metal or plastic items, which were wrapped in plastic sheeting, and sludges from the liquid waste treatment plant, which were scaled in steel drums. All the above wastes were slightly contaminated with  a  mixture of radioisotopes, consisting mainly of fission products, natural uranium and a very small amount of actinide elements. The total amount of low level solid radioactive wastes buried has been 1,670m9, containing the small total of 4.2 curies of radioactivity. 
The liquid radioactivity wastes disposed of are initially treated to reduce radioactive and other contaminants to extremely low levels. The treated wastes are carefully monitored and then discharged via a pipeline to an underwater outlet in the upper tidal reaches of the Woronora River. In all cases, the discharges have been well below the requirements of a radioactivity discharge authorisation granted by New South Wales authorities, and which is based on the recommendations of the International Commission for Radiation Protection. Audited discharge data is regularly reported to the appropriate State authorities. 
Gaseous waste disposed of from the Commission's Research Establishment has consisted of ventilating air contaminated with radioactive gases or particulate materials. This air is first filtered through high efficiency filters and then discharged to the atmosphere through stacks. Each stack is fitted wilh  a  radiation monitor and is the subject of a separate discharge authorisation given by the New South Wales Department of Health. The authorisations specify the amounts of radioactivity which may be discharged in 1 13-week period and the Commission reports the monitor results accordingly. Discharges in each 13-week period, since the authorisations were issued in 1969, have contained amounts of radioactivity representing only small fractions of those permitted. 
Until November 1968, the low level solid radioactive waste was buried in a disposal area  situated in  Commonwealth-owned land approximately one mile north of the Research Establishment. Burial was in 10ft deep trenches with at least 3ft of consolidated earth cover. Since then all solid radioactive waste has been stored at the Research Establishment. 
The solid radioactive waste was packaged before burial as described in the answer to question (1) above. However, the characteristics of the soil in the disposal area are such that any radioactivity which might be leached from the wastes by ground water would become chemically bound to the soil by an ion exchange process and thereby fixed in position. Consequently no special containment of the wastes, designed to prevent the spread of radioactivity, is considered necessary. A regular programme of sampling, designed to indicate any movement of radioactivity from where it was buried in the disposal area, has detected no such dispersal of radioactivity. 
The area is surrounded by a security fence and is under surveillance by Commission staff and by Commonwealth Police. 
The radioactive decay half life of fission products ranges up to a maximum of 30 years for caeshim-137 and strontium-90. The actinide elements have half lives ranging up to 3.8 X 10* years and the radioactivity in natural uranium has a half life of 4.5 X 10" years. However, it must be recognised that the half life is but one of the factors which define any hazard which a radioisotope presents to man. Other factors are: the radiotoxicity which, in the case of the wastes under discussion, falls mostly either into intermediate or low categories; the contained quantity, which in this case is low; the probability of man coming into contact with the material, which again is low. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consultations (other than at the Fisheries Council) concerning the possible use of nuclear explosions for harbour construction have occurred on three occasions. All occasions related to the possible provision of ports to serve iron ore developments in the Pilbara area of Western Australia. 
The dates, sites affected and the outcomes were: 
April 1965-February 1966; several sites between Onslow and Cape Preston: discussions lapsed following alterations in the plans of the companies developing the iron ore resources. &lt;b) December 1968-February 1969: Cape Keraudren to serve the Nimingarra deposits: the company did not proceed wilh the Nimingarra project 
May-July 1969: Cape Preston to serve the Robe River deposits: alternative arrangements for development of the ore reserves led to the discarding of plans for a port at Cape Preston. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1 and 2) Following negotiations between the Governments of Australia and Indonesia in early October, an agreement establishing seabed boundaries in the area of the Timor and Arafura Seas, was signed in Djakarta on 9th October 1972. The text of the Agreement, and a map showing the agreed boundaries were tabled by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the House of Representatives on 10th October 1972. 
In 19'68 B.O.C. of Australia Ltd made representations to the Government with regard to offshore petroleum permits which might be affected by any seabed agreement with Indonesia. The Government undertook to keep the interests of the company in mind in any such agreement 
Portuguese Government has not made known its position. (5, 6, 7 and 8) See (1) and (2) above. Northern Territory. Permits P.2, P.7, P.8, P.9, P.13, P. 15, have been affected by the new Agreement. (The positions of these permits is illustrated on the map produced by my Department, entitled Petroleum Exploration and Development Titles, 31st December 1971). None of these permits is subject to farmout or proposed farmout agreements. 
One well (Brown Gannet No. 1) is currently drilling in the area referred to. The position of the well is latitude 12 05' 27", longitude 123" 51' 23" and is being drilled by Arco (Australia) Ltd. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Submissions have been received from all States for assistance under the second phase of the National Water Resources Development Programme. Details necessary for a proper evaluation of each project did not accompany all submissions. The Commonwealth Government has usually left it to the individual States to decide whether to make public the fact that a project has been submitted for consideration under the Programme. Those submissions which have been announced and for which a detailed report has been provided but which have not yet received approval are set out below. The list does not include projects which have been considered, and in relation to which the Commonwealth has already advised that financial assistance will not be made available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Queensland Government has sought advice from the Commonwealth Government on whether the Ross River Dam would be eligible for consideration for financial assistance under the National Water Resources Development Programme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Eton-Mackay scheme was submitted to the Commonwealth by the Premier of Queensland for consideration under the National Water Resources Development Programme on 27th April 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Reports containing the results of a departmental study of projects submitted by the States for consideration under the National Water Resources Development Programme are submitted to the Government, and are regarded as confidential documents. 
Housing in Canberra: Members of Parliament  (Question No.  6469)  Mr Les  Johnson asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In respect of each Member of Parliament who has contracted to purchase a Government house in Canberra over the last 5 years, what was (a) the address of the property, (b) the market value of the property, &lt;c) the purchase price, (d) the deposit paid, (e) the interest rate and period of repayment applying to the balance of the loan and (f) the date the contract was entered into. 
Which Members of Parliament are eligible to purchase or hold the tenancy of a Government home in Canberra. 
In respect of each Member of Parliament currently renting a Government home, what is the (a) address of the home rented, (b) capital cost of the home rented, (c) rental paid and (d) tenancy period approved. 
Are tenancy rights terminated when a Member who is renting a Government home ceases to be a Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An application for Commonwealth financial assistance has been received from the New South Wales Government for construction of the Windamere Dam. 
The proposal is being examined by the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further submissions concerning Commonwealth financial assistance for the Lock-Kimba Pipeline 
Scheme on the Eyre Peninsula have been received from the South Australian Government. These are currently under examination and I anticipate that a decision will be made by the Commonwealth Government concerning this project in the near future. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) At the request of the Prime Minister all Commonwealth Departments concerned, in co-operation with State and City of Brisbane interests, are completing the engineering and environmental studies as a matter of urgency. Some $600,000 of Investigation are involved. 
Those studies are well under way; some have been completed. Prompt consideration will be given to the proposal as a whole immediately the results of all these supplementary studies and other technical reviews are available. 
Eliminating existing aircraft noise problems is one of the main issues which has received the attention of all concerned in developing alternative airport plans for Brisbane and in the Advisory Committee's recommendation in favour of what has become known as Concept Q. 
All alternatives considered have been north of the Brisbane River and do not involve significant noise nuisance in the Electorate of Bowman. 
Brisbane Airport: Re-siting Proposal  (Question No. 6536)  Mr Keogh  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
In relation to the proposed, re-siting of Brisbane Airport, has consideration been given to the criticism by the ex-President of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, Captain Holt, to the positioning of the main runways, and his suggestion that they should be slightly re-aligned. 
If so, has any decision been made in regard to changing the position of these runway^. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the. following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Additional to the public release of the Commonwealth/State/City pf Brisbane Advisory Committee's Report on Brisbane's future airport needs earlier this year, the Department has referred to all major aviation interests, including the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, a summary of all the factors which had to be considered in achieving a new safe airport concept for Brisbane. 
That paper is now being discussed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The United States Government has decided not to proceed with the release, but rather to use the material in pre-production of enriched uranium for stockpiling against later demand. 
No. 
No. 
No. The recent Agreement with Japan for co-operation in the peaceful uses of atomic energy is basically an enabling agreement under which the parties, or organisations under their jurisdiction, may make arrangements for exchanges of information and co-operative ventures in specific fields of nuclear science and technology. No arrangements have yet been made between Australia and Japan for exchanges of information on the technology of centrifuge enrichment. 
The Enrichment Study Group in the Japanese Central Electric Power Research Institute is known to be interested in international enrichment projects. However, it has so far made no approach to the Australian Government to seek any assistance in its studies, nor has it given the Government any indication of its programme of studies. 
While it is expected that the report by Cameron McNamara and 'Partners on coordinated development of the Alligator River region will be made public, it is not possible at present to indicate when this might occur. 
Proven reserves are presently of the order of 100,000 short tons, but it is expected that durin the next 12 to 18 months this figure will double. 
(a) The Spanish Government is at present setting up a National Fuel Company to develop a nuclear fuel cycle capability in that country. The new company will be government cotrolled, but is likely to include Spanish and overseas groups involved in uranium supply, processing and fuel manufacture, (b) Uranium mining in Sweden is controlled by A.B. Atomenergi. The Swedish Government is setting up a nuclear fuel corporation to co-ordinate purchases of uranium from overseas and also to undertake and promote studies of uranium enrichment possibilities in Sweden. It is reported that the corporation is to be 50 per cent owned by the State Power Board and 50 per cent by private and municipal utilities, (c) British Nuclear Fuels Ltd, is at present wholly owned by the United Kingdom Government. It is intended that in due course private organisations would be offered shareholdings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
BOC of Australia Ltd is the operator for the consortium. 
Following the merger the Burmah Group held approximately 51.2 per cent of the equity in Woodside-Burmah Oil NL. 
Exploration in the area controlled by the consortium is carried out under an operating agreement between the companies concerned. The Commonwealth and Western Australian Governments had discussions with the companies involved in the merger, and were assured that there would be substantial Australian equity in the new company and that the board of WoodsideBurmah was and would remain predominantly Australian. 
See 1 above. 
The effect at the time of the merger was to reduce the Australian equity in the permits by less than one half of 1 per cent from 24.78 per cent to 24.4 per cent. Woodside Oil NL and MidEastern Oil (NL held approximately 48.8 per cent equity in Woodside-Burmah which holds a 50 per cent interest in the permits. 
Four farm-out agreements were announced in early April 1972. 
(a) and (b) The farm-out arrangements and respective interests are as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the period September, 1969 to August, 1972, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and/or the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation carried out work in all States of the Commonwealth, the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and Papua New Guinea. In addition work was undertaken or investigated in Algeria, Burma, Indonesia, Khmer Republic, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, Samoa, Thailand and Vietnam. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation was established in June, 1970 and since then no such work has been undertaken by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. 
Details of projects commenced during the period September, 1969 to August, 1972, are incorporated in the following table. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's  question: 
1,709 as at 30th September 1972. 
1,163 as at 30th September 1972. 
It is not clear what is meant by 'holding positions of administrative and technical responsibility'. However, there are 96 indigenes whose services have been made available to the Department by the Papua New Guinea Administration and who are Second Division officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service. The Second Division in the Papua New Guinea Public Service is similar to the Third Division of the Commonwealth Service and these 96 indigenes could therefore be considered as occupying positions having administrative or technical responsibility. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Percen- 
Total tageof Number of Number of number of total take-offs landings movements move- towards towards (landings ments on tbe east the west 
July and east-west using using 1972 take-offs) runway runway 07 runway 25 
* Excludes 167 helicopter nights during the month. _ (4) _ 724 flights either took off in an easterly direction or landed in a westerly direction between 6.00 p.m. and 11.00 p.m. during the month. 
289 flights, which included all types of aircraft, departed or landed at the airport within the hours 11.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m. during the month, 34 of these flights were jet aircraft. 
to (5) The low numbers of take-offs to the east and the number of days when a relatively high number of landings were to the west on the east-west runway are indicative of winter westerly wind conditions influencing runway use. The overall percentage use of the east-west runway in either direction of 38.5 per cent may be compared to an annual estimate of 37 per cent which allows for all seasonal and other conditions. Qf the flights occurring between 11.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. only 7 took off or landed over the eastern side of the airport. One of these was a jet aircraft. 
and (7) During 1971-72 a working group consisting of airline and other industry representatives, the New South Wales State Planning Authority and interested Commonwealth Departments, including DCA, completed a review of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport primarily to decide the best way of expanding the domestic terminals and meeting other miscellaneous accommodation requirements. It was determined that TAA and EWA should be authorised to expand into the old international area and that AAA and Airlines of New South Wales should expand from their present position along the southern side of the north-east (domestic) terminal complex. These domestic terminal developments can take place, with other accommodation re-arrangements, without compromising the ultimate parallel runway pattern at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. Both parallel runways were considered by the working group and these considerations were referred to the Commonwealth/State Committee bearing in mind that the Committee must recommend on the respective roles of Sydney's second airport and Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. The working group meet periodically and usually, incidental to other commitments of its members and, as a result, it is not feasible to isolate the investigation costs in this discussion phase. 
The present position with the investigation of proposals for a second airport is that the Commonwealth/ State Committee appointed to make recommendations to the Government is actively carrying out its investigations. The Committee has had 17 meetings up to 22nd August. To assist the Committee, the Commonwealth Government has engaged a 'British firm of consultants who, with the assistance of Australian experts, will carry out a detailed benefit/cost study of the alternative proposals for a new airport, as well as the alternative schemes for the development of the existing airport. The study will be most comprehensive and take into account not only a comparison of the costs of all works involved in these proposals but also a comparison of the benefits and costs in all significant aspects including environmental factors and aircraft noise. This study is currently in the design phase and present indications are that the study itself will not be completed before October 1973. 
As the report on the benefit/cost study is not expected before October 1973, it is unlikely, that the Commonwealth/State Committee will be in a position to make a recommendation before the end of that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Overseas holdings in the Rankin, North Rankin, Goodwyn and Angel fields located in offshore titles WA-l-P and WA-28-P in the 'Adjacent Area' of the State of Western Australia are as follows: 
The  Chairman  of Woodside-Burmah Oil N.L. has stated that, in addition to the holding of 54.5 per cent by the Burmah Oil Co., a further 10 per cent of the company's shares could be held by overseas interests. This does not include holdings by nominee companies on behalf of overseas residents, details of which are not known. 
See answer to (1). 
Gas fields so far discovered on the Northwest Shelf are located in excess of 12 miles from the Australian coastline. The joint Commonwealth/State legislation - the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Acts - governs the exploration for and exploitation of petroleum resources in offshore areas adjacent to Australia. The Agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Governments of the six States is the basic instrument underlying the joint petroleum offshore scheme and provides for joint administration of the offshore areas by the Commonwealth and the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As advised in my answer to Question No. 6270, the Queensland Government has sought advice on the eligibility of the Ross River Dam for consideration for financial assistance under the National Water Resources Development Programme. This request was made in April 1972. 
