-I am honoured and privileged to take part in this debate on the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  's Speech. I offer my congratulations to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your election to your high office and, through you, to  Mr Speaker  on his election to his office. I also pay tribute to my predecessor, my friend Bill Fulton, who served this House and the electorate of Leichhardt for 17 years until he retired at the end of the 29th Parliament. He was a good, honest, decent man- one of the old school of the Australian Labor Party. Leichhardt has been a Labor seat for 24 years and I am pleased that I played some small part in reversing that trend. 
It strikes me that few honourable members know very much about far North Queensland and the Leichhardt electorate. It must be difficult for those members who represent constituencies of three or four square miles to comprehend an electorate such as Leichhardt which stretches north from the town of Innisfail for 1200 kilometres to the Papua New Guinea border and west from the Great Barrier Reef for 1200 kilometers to the Northern Territory border. The mainland area is more than twice that of Victoria and this does not include the many islands in the electorate. If we add together the land, the islands and the sea surrounding them, the electorate is almost four times the size of Victoria which has 34 members in this House. The coastline of Leichhardt is 12 times the length of the coastline of New South Wales, an area which has 45 members in this House. 
Last week the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  when large electorates were mentioned interjected with 'camels and spinifex'. Humorous perhaps, but a very typical urban reaction. Unlike many rural electorates, the population of Leichhardt is growing rapidly. It is now over 120 000. The numbers on the electoral roll between the 1974 and 1975 elections grew by 3000. The whole of this vast area is populated and productive- no camels and no spinifex. It is one of the last frontiers of Australia opened up by adventurous, stout-hearted men and women. - not by governments but by private individuals, people willing to take risks, to face the dangers and difficulties of isolation and the 'tyranny of distance', the apt tide of Professor Geoffrey Blainey's recent book. The tyranny of distance emphasises the difficulties of living so far away from the main centres of population. It is the cause of past ignorance and neglect of the far north by governments- all governments- and now that this side of the House holds all the seats in Queensland north of the Tropic of Capricorn I trust that the northern members will work together to produce an influence, perhaps greater than their numbers, in keeping with the vast wealth and importance of the area. 
We recognise that half the population of Australia lives in and around the great metropolises of Sydney and Melbourne. However, perhaps city dwellers forget that they produce little of the wealth of the nation. They process some of it and use much of it for their own needs, but the real wealth of the nation comes from the land, the mines and the sea which together produce 73.5 per cent of the nation's exports. I believe that more of this wealth should return to the source. Because of the tyranny of distance, the greatest problem in Leichhardt is communication in all its forms. The most pressing need of the electorate is for roads and bridges which are usable throughout the year. At present during the height of the wet season it is not possible to travel by road in a conventional vehicle more than a couple of hundred kilometers from Cairns, the main centre of population. National Highway 1 must be upgraded so that we are not cut off from the south. Roads to the west and north must be improved. Today the towns of Croydon, Normanton, Burketown, Weipa and Coen are cut off by road and last week the people of Normanton and Burketown had to charter an aircraft to bring in fresh milk and vegetables. Thanks to good planning before the wet season, so far none of these towns has run out of beer. 
I have in my possession a letter written in 1 888 by a member of my family from the then booming cattle and mining town of Croydon, in the centre of the gulf country. At that time there were more than 50 public houses in Croydon and a rather greater number of houses of a less reputable character. The letter talks of great troubles in getting supplies in and gold and cattle out. It goes on to say: 
There is much hope for the future as it has just been announced that a railway from the east is to be built to Croydon. 
So much for the promises of governments. Eighty-eight years later there is still no railway and no all-weather road into Croydon from the east. The people still cannot get their cattle out. Inadequate radio and television reception is another of our communication problems. No one in my electorate tonight can listen to this speech as the one Australian Broadcasting Commission channel does not broadcast so far away. Perhaps because of this the people of Leichhardt have a higher opinion of this House than those who have been able to listen to the debates in this House over the last 3 years. Beyond a radius of 240 kilometers from Cairns no one can receive television or commercial radio and many closer areas receive very poor television reception because the installation of equipment necessary to improve reception was cancelled as an economy measure by the last Government. The greatest good for the greatest number. 
It is my firm belief and the policy of the National Country Party that those who live in the more isolated areas of the nation should not be unduly disadvantaged by the tyranny of distance. People in the cities say: 'But you chose to live there'. Yes, of course we did, but without a populated north Australia would be a much poorer and more defenceless nation. When the economic climate improves I will press for the reintroduction of the fuel equalisation scheme and for assistance to small local airlines, both measures having been cancelled by the last Government. The reduction in assistance to small local airlines means that very large areas of Leichhardt no longer receive deliveries of mail or newspapers. This is particularly hard on the women of the outback, another instance of the tyranny of distance. 
Leichhardt is an area of great diversity of terrain and industries. There is the modern city of Cairns, a centre for tourists. Cairns and Innisfail are surrounded by rich fields of sugar cane. The Atherton Tablelands, with its unique temperate climate in the midst of a tropical zone, produces dairy products, tobacco, timber, minerals, maize and vegetables. This area is able to supply Alice Springs and Darwin with milk when the roads are not cut. It is the longest milk run in the world. Weipa, on the far north west of the peninsula, produces and exports vast quantities of bauxite, and along the great coastline is a big fishing industry. Many speakers already have mentioned the plight of the cattle industry. Throughout the gulf and peninsula area of Leichhardt this is the major industry and the area has the potential to export more beef than has the rest of Australia combined, and did so until the slump in the market in 1973. I recognise that the Government is beginning to implement the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission report on the beef industry, but if the industry is to survive until the market recovers more must be done in conjunction with the States. Although some loans are available to producers, I am most concerned about those producers who do not qualify for loans. Urgent support is necessary to enable them to survive, and I mean that in the literal sense. I urge immediate application of the IAC recommendation on household support so that families with no income may have enough to eat. 
Tourism is rapidly becoming the greatest money earner in the far north, as people from the south and from overseas realise the unique attractions of the far north and its magnificent climate. Now that honourable members no longer can travel overseas at government expense- I agree with that restriction- perhaps some of them may wish to travel north during the winter recess to escape the southern cold and to see what we have to offer them. 
Other speakers in the debate have spoken about the plight of small businesses. In Leichhardt three out of four people are employed by small businesses or on small farms. That section of the community has suffered most from the disastrous economic policies of the previous Government. I look forward to prompt action being taken in carrying out the election promises made by the Government concerning the assistance required to ensure the survival of so many small businesses. Jobs must be created by real decentralisation so that young people from the north do not have to travel more than 2000 kilometres south to the nearest big city, Brisbane. 
More than 20 000 of the people of Leichhardt are Aboriginals and Islanders. They comprise a major part of the community. The previous Government did many worthwhile things for them, but it did too much too quickly. Many of the leaders of these people, with whom I have had discussions, are concerned about the handout philosophy so encouraged by the previous Government. I believe that this Government, in consultation with the Queensland Government, should re-think its policies to encourage both independence and the involvement of these people in all decision making which affects them. 
The problems associated with the proposal to mine bauxite at Aurukun have already been mentioned tonight. Recently I spent a whole day in the area sitting under the trees letting the people talk to me. If mining is to be undertaken the people must be consulted very carefully so that their wishes may be met. They have many worries, such as the desecration of their sacred sites. They worry about the impact which the close proximity of a large European community could have on their way of life. I look forward to having close contact and involvement with the Aboriginal and Islander communities of Leichhardt. I will try to ensure that this Parliament and the government departments involved are aware of their special problems and hopes. 
I suppose that not many members of this House can say that they have two difficult international problems within the boundaries of their electorate. I can. The first one is the potential trouble between Australian and Taiwanese fishermen in the Gulf of Carpentaria when the prawn fishing season opens next week, on 1 March. The long term solution to the problem of foreign fishermen in Gulf waters is to close the Gulf. That should be done only, I believe, with international recognition. Next month the Australian Government is to be represented at the International Conference on the Law of the Sea to be held in New York. I hope that at that conference we will reach agreement so that Australia may have an exclusive economic zone stretching 320 kilometres from the coastline. Such a decision would effectively close the Gulf by international agreement. 
The other international problem lies in the definition of the border between Australia and Papua New Guinea in the Torres Strait. There are 17 inhabited islands in the Torres Strait, and the proud Island people have been Australians and Queenslanders since 1 879. The islands and the seas surrounding them are their fife. The 10 000 Islanders would strongly oppose any agreement or solution which does not continue to recognise and preserve their status as Australians and Queenslanders, their islands as Australian territory, and their traditional fishing rights in the waters of Torres Strait. Equally, the traditional fishing rights of the coastal Papuans must also be preserved. I am most concerned at some of the solutions which have been suggested to this problem, many by people who have never been near the Torres Strait, and I believe that many of them would be quite unacceptable to the islanders and to Queenslanders. 
I turn now to defence. Everywhere I go throughout my electorate people express concern about our inadequate defences. Because of my long and varied experience in the defence forces this as a subject in which I will take a continuing interest, encouraged by the people of Leichhardt who realise that they live, once again, in the front line of Australia 's defence. They look on the map at the area to our north and they read reports of war and unrest in Timor and Bougainville, and they worry. It is my firm conviction that the first duty of any government is the security of the nation, a duty dangerously neglected by the previous Government. I am very pleased that expenditure on defence was not cut in the recent economy measures. There was absolutely no room for further economies in defence spending. My many friends in the Services tell me that the most vital areas are those of equipment, training and morale. Commitment to buy new equipment and money spent on sound training will quickly raise morale. 
In the far north a major problem is surveillance of the coastline, which I said earlier is 12 times the length of the New South Wales coastline. It is easy for foreign fishermen to land undetected on the coast with the disastrous possibility of the introduction of foot and mouth disease, which could stop all beef exports and have disastrous results throughout the country. It is known that drugs are smuggled in and that rare birds are smuggled out. There is also the long term possibility of undetected incursions. I would recommend a form of coast watcher service, manned voluntarily and at little cost by locals in the Gulf and on the peninsula. They can all ride horses and use radios, and many have cross country vehicles. I would like to congratulate the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  on the views which he expressed on defence last week. He and I had the privilege of serving together in the same great regiment. It is very good to see a member of the younger generation of the Services with such a sound grasp of and interest in defence. I ask all honourable members to take a similar interest in defence, to create a national awareness of the importance of those in uniform who serve the nation. 
It will require money to reverse the past neglect of the far north. I am sure that the people of Leichhardt realise that little additional money will be available until the economy improves. I urge the Government to commit itself to development programs for the future so that the people may have hope. I will be a clear, firm voice in this House so that the far north and Leichhardt, although far out of sight, will not be out of mind. I urge all honourable members to go north and to see for themselves the problems imposed by the tyranny of distance and to see also the vast potential of the area. Finally, I thank honourable members for the courtesy of listening to me with such attention. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the disastrous effect of the gradual reduction of Government subsidies to small local airlines as a result of a decision by the Labor Government? Is he aware that in the last 18 months scheduled air services have been withdrawn from 41 towns, communities and properties in north Queensland as a direct result of the reduction of subsidies, and that on 1 July this year services will be withdrawn from a further 12 areas? Will the Minister continue the remaining subsidies due to be withdrawn on 1 July this year until the whole problem of scheduled air services to isolated areas can be investigated? 
-The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  conveniently forgets many facts of the past. He forgets that it was the Government of which he was a supporter that sowed the seeds of what is happening in Timor at the moment by its tacit approval of Indonesian actions. Had the previous Government taken strong action in August 1975 we would not be having the problems in Timor we are having now. I do not believe that in this debate we should dwell too much on the past. Surely it is the future of the Timorese that really concerns us in this debate. Throughout Australia many people feel a sense of anguish, frustration and concern for the Timorese. The Government shares this concern. It shares the concern of the families of the journalists who died. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  used some emotive terms in describing their deaths. Sadly, we do not know how they died. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has seen enough of war to know how, in the confusion of war, facts can easily be twisted by both sides. This Government must press, and continue to press, for a genuine process of self determination for the Timorese. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, we owe a debt to the Timorese for the assistance they gave to Australian forces during the last war. 
Several arguments were put forward in the United Nations Security Council, ranging from the views of Indonesia, supported by the Philippines and Malaysia on the one hand, to those advanced by Fretilin supported by China, Mozambique, Guinea Bissau and the honourable member for Fraser on the other hand. It is true the resolution reflected something of a compromise in that while it called for the withdrawal without delay of Indonesian forces it also avoided any strong censure of Indonesian actions. In a sense the resolution pointed the way to an appropriate and just solution in Timor without indulging in unnecessary and probably counter-productive recriminations. 
Australia is not currently a member of the Security Council. The Australian position was set out clearly by our representative in a statement before the Council on 14 April. The main points of that statement which have been mentioned by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  related to the renewal of the mandate for  Mr Winspeare,  the withdrawal of Indonesian forces, and a genuine act of self-determination. Those points were embodied in the resolution finally adopted by the Security Council. The Australian Government accordingly welcomes the resolution, believing that it provides a basis for settlement in East Timor providing for selfdetermination of the Timorese people. 
We have to consider the political and regional environment in which we live. I represent the northernmost seat in Australia. The north-west boundary of my electorate is only a few miles from the nearest Indonesian territory, West Irian, and one gets a different view if one lives in the Cape York Peninsula from the view one gets in the ivory towers of Canberra. 
So far, we are alone in the whole region in pressing the case of the people of Timor, a case that was not pressed by the previous Government. Their case was neglected. I believe we cannot press their case to the extent of breaking off diplomatic relations with Indonesia. We must look at this problem in the perspective of our overall relationship with Indonesia and with the region as a whole. I have spent many years of my life living and working in Asia. I have taken part in 2 wars in the Indonesian archipelago. I certainly do not want my children or the young Australians of today to have to be involved again in that area. I am firmly against any military involvement by Australia in the Timorese problem. I am sure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would agree with that. But if we take his argument to the extreme, that is where we are leading and we cannot do that. 
We have to look at this problem in the context of our overall relationship with a great neighbor. 
We must continue, with all the means in our power short of a break of diplomatic relations, to press for a withdrawal. We must press for a genuine act of self-determination so that the Timorese can say what they want for their future. This act should be undertaken with UN participation. We are pressing for a recognition of the rights of the Timorese. But we must also look at our interests in the wider concept of South-East Asia in which we live. We must continue to press as hard as we can, being a lone voice in this whole region, speaking for the people of Timor. We must press for a self-determination for the Timorese. I see very little argument with the Opposition on this. We want the same thing. The Opposition is dragging up the past; we are looking to the future of the Timorese. The past is the responsibility of the previous Government; the future must be our responsibility. 
-Last week during the grievance debate I was severely criticised by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  for my alleged failure to protest about a decision not to proceed with the building of a navigational aid vessel in the Cairns shipyard of North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd. During his speech, to drive home his point, the honourable member for Newcastle mentioned me at least 6 times. I am flattered that he should have taken the trouble to mention me so often and I wonder whether he is worried that I may be doing an effective job in my electorate.  His  speech was full of misrepresentation and half truths. It is perhaps unfortunate for him that I have been taking a very great interest in this firm, NQEA, which is the largest employer of labour in Cairns. 
I do not intend to involve myself in the gutter politics of innuendo and character assassination. I will confine myself to the facts of the case, which are well documented. In rather complicated syntax the honourable member for Newcastle criticised, to use his words 'the decision of this Government to withdraw the decision of the Labor Government to award the tender to the North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd in Cairns'. The facts are as follows: Tenders for the construction of a navigational aid vessel closed on 11 December 1974. In April 1975 NQEA in Cairns was asked to accept the tender. Unfortunately the contractual financial terms were not satisfactory to NQEA. I understand that the company would have had to carry the sum of approximately $2m over a period of 2 months pending completion of the vessel. As a result, on 1 8 September NQEA sent a telex to the Department of Transport, then headed by the honourable member for Newcastle, which read in part: 
We are not prepared to accept the order or continue any further negotiations to build the Navaid vessel except on our conditions of profit on escalation and payments. 
On 3 November 1975- note the date-the Department of Transport, still headed by the honourable member for Newcastle, sent a letter to NQEA which said in part: ... it has been decided not to proceed with this project for the time being. 
On 6 November NQEA sent a further letter to the Department which said: 
We consider now that the refusal to negotiate comes from your Department and not from this company. 
The firm, NQEA alleges that the Department of Transport refused to negotiate on the financial terms of the contract. It was the Department of Transport then headed by a Labor Minister, the honourable member for Newcastle, which cancelled the contract, not the present Government. 
I agree that first class navigational aids are required for the area between Cairns and Darwin. Because of the delays in building the navigational aid vessel mentioned by the honourable member for Newcastle, his Department arranged for the building of a smaller vessel of, I think, 260 tonnes which has been built and is in service. The Department, under the honourable member for Newcastle, was satisfied that this smaller vessel could adequately maintain the navigational aid system as an interim measure. I understand that the situation will be reviewed in the light of experience to see whether a larger vessel is required. 
I have been working very actively in an effort to assist NQEA to obtain further contracts and I have arranged appointments for the directors of that company to see appropriate Ministers and departmental officers on a number of occasions. I reiterate that the attack on me by the honourable member for Newcastle was quite unjustified as the contract to build a navigational aid vessel was cancelled by the department when he was Minister for Transport, not by the present Government. 
-I support these 2 Supply Bills. They demonstrate Government's determination to reduce inflation, to reduce unemployment and to help the disadvantaged. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  in his excellent and erudite speech, dealt with some of the details of these Bills. I would like to deal with some of the broader aspects. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in his second reading speech, stated that the Bills reflect decisions relating to expenditure and, more generally, the Government's continuing policy of expenditure restraint Restraints and reduction of expenditure always fall unevenly. It is an unfortunate fact of life that the isolated areas of a nation are always harder hit than the great metropolises. I make a plea to the Government to give every consideration possible to those disadvantaged by isolation and the tyranny of distance, such as the people in my electorate of Leichhardt. 
In this House there are 6 members who, between them, represent 74.54 per cent of the land mass of this continent. Almost 75 per cent of the mainland is represented by 6 members from both sides of the House. I am disappointed in my gallant and honourable friend from Lowe, because this is his cue to interject: 'Camels and spinifex'. I quote from the maiden speech of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam): 
To hear the detailed topographical description of their electorates in which certain honourable members indulge, one might be forgiven for thinking that they were here to represent majestic mountain peaks or  babbling  brooks, or even sheep and goats. 
-I do not have any goats in my electorate. That profound comment led me to do some research. I discovered that at the 1975 election the honourable member for Grayndler represented 57 081 voters while I, in my electorate, represented 61 266 voters, over 4000 voters more than the honourable member for Grayndler at the last election. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  represents 57 483 electors. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  represents only 55 567 voters, almost 6000 fewer than 1 have in Leichhardt. Compare the few square miles of his electorate to my electorate which is 4 times the size of Victoria. 
-I agree. This profound ignorance on both sides of the House of problems in isolated areas concerns me. Last night in my office I was speaking to one of my colleagues who has had the good sense and perception to have decided to visit my electorate. I wish more honourable members would visit it. We were looking at a map and discussing some of the problems. He said: 'You know, I had no idea of these problems'. He represents a small, safe, wealthy, inner city electorate. We hear a lot about equality, justice for all and the quality of life. I hope that these good things do not apply only to cities. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has made several speeches recently about these factors. He shows great concern for the cities. It is high time that more of us stood up and showed concern for the isolated areas of this nation. There are many problems. They include education and rural poverty. It is worth noting that Professor Henderson stated in his report on poverty that there are 14 per cent more people in the rural areas who are below the poverty line than there are in the cities. I hope to deal with those 2 subjects at another time. 
Today I should like to talk about communications in all its aspects. I want to stress the problems of communications and the lack of them in their widest possible aspects- radio, television, telephones, mail deliveries, roads, ports and airlines. 
Let me deal first with television. Threequarters of the people in my electorate do not have television reception. I heard the honourable, member for Wills talking about colour television sets. It is of no use for most of the people in my electorate to buy colour television sets, even if they could afford to do so. We have a television service, but it does not cover a very big area. In fact, because of our magnificent mountains there are areas within two or three miles of the main city of Cairns that cannot receive television. 
-Yes, they are in blind spots. We would receive much better television reception over a wide area with the installation of 9 television translators. The installation of this equipment was deferred in the Hayden Budget brought down by the previous Government, but I am delighted to hear from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that money for the translators is likely to be made available next financial year. The installation of two of them in north Cairns and Mossman should take place this year and the remainder in due course. Hopefully, one day television reception will be extended throughout the vast areas of the Gulf and the Peninsula in the electorate of Leichhardt. I give notice that I will press for this as soon as the present economic crisis is under control. 
-I do not wish to comment about the previous member; he is an old friend. 
Let me take a specific area of my electorate, the area north of Cooktown covering the Cape York Peninsula and the Torres Strait Islands. There are 12 000 or 13 000 people living in that area. They have no commercial radio, no television and no roads, except for a few bush tracks. They have no reception of Australian Broadcasting Commission programs unless they have short wave radios. Last month the Minister for Post and Telecommunications announced plans to install an ABC transmitter on Thursday Island. It is difficult to realise the impact this will have on the people in this area. I urge the Minister and the Government not to cut out this proposal. I regard it as a matter of urgency because it will provide the first ray of hope for a very disadvantaged area. 
A great deal of money has been spent on rock radio stations and FM radio stations in the cities. People in my electorate find it difficult to understand why those people who, to use the words of the well known advertisement, appear to have everything should be given such luxuries when they, the people of Leichhardt, have so very little by comparison. I wonder what the reaction of some of my city colleagues would be if 13 000 of their constituents had no television, no commercial radio reception, no roads and no parliamentary broadcasts. Exactly the same problems that I have mentioned in regard to Cape York and the Torres Strait Islands apply also in the western and Gulf areas of my electorate. 
I would like to mention briefly roads. Considerable sums of money have been made available for roads in these Bills. One of my constituents who lives in a very isolated town called Helenvale recently visited me at Parliament House, having driven as far as, I think, Adelaide. Adelaide to Helenvale is about as far as you can drive north-south in Australia. He said that he was very impressed by the roads and that in some places there are two or three roads running to the same place. He pointed out that he did not have a road to his area. He has not. He was quite right. I hope that some of these funds will be made available for roads in my electorate. Some priorities should be set between the building of great freeways and the improvement of bush tracks. For example, the town of Normanton which is 749 kilometres west of Cairns, has a road running to it. But 225 kilometres of that road are unsealed. It is impassable for 5 months of the year during the wet season. During the dry season it is covered in a foot or so of what is known locally as bull dust- great choking clouds of dust. It is dangerous. Several enterprising operators have tried to start bus services in that area, but they have had to give up. I might say that in the 23 years of previous Liberal-National Country Party governments several hundred miles of that road were sealed. The beef roads program was stopped, not by the LiberalNational Country Party Government but by the last Labor Government. Had it done its job and looked after the people in the bush we would have had those 225 kilometres of road sealed in the last 3 years. 
Burketown is 2 15 kilometres west of Normanton and almost 1000 kilometres from Cairns. It has leading to it a dirt track which can be used by 4-wheel drive vehicles for very brief periods of the year. On the peninsula, the 480 kilometre road from Cooktown to Coen can be used only with 4-wheel drive vehicles in the dry season. It is closed at the moment. 
-I will come to that. I hope that some money will be made available to commence upgrading those roads. I know that the Commonwealth provides the money and the 
States decide the priorities, but the Commonwealth will have to start pressing Brisbane. I might say that in the minds of my electors Brisbane and Canberra are grouped together as being very distant, unfeeling centres of government. 
This does not necessarily apply to governments; it applies to the people who form them. Telephones are another problem. Many thousands of people in my electorate have no telephones. One family was recently quoted the sum of$15,000 to have a telephone installed. Hundreds of others maintain their own telephone lines at their own expense, and many others have to rely on 2-way radio which gives them very little privacy. It is fascinating to listen to some of the broadcasts over the air. I believe that a denial of communication such as this is a denial of the freedom of speech. It shows up the disadvantage of people living in the isolated areas, the 75 per cent of this continent which is represented by only 6 Federal members of Parliament. 
Yesterday morning at question time the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite asked a question on zone allowances. I strongly support what he said. I was delighted to hear the Treasurer agree to investigate the boundaries of the zone allowance areas and to increase the base value to give some compensation to those taxpayers who suffer isolation, inconvenience, bad climate in some areas, and the high cost of living. Let me cite a couple of examples of the high cost of living faced by these people. In Burketown petrol costs $1.14 a gallon; in Coen it costs $1.03 a gallon. When the economy improves I intend to press for the reintroduction of the petrol equalisation scheme which was cancelled by the last Labor Government which thought nothing of the people in the country areas. 
I now turn to air routes, about which an honourable member interjected a moment ago. In those areas where there are no roads, airlines and aeroplanes are vital. The Labor Government reduced the subsidy for local scheduled air services. This year 31 scheduled air services in my area have been cancelled and another twelve are due to be cancelled on 1 July. Again I intend to press for the reintroduction of the subsidy when the economy improves - 
-The Government of which the honourable member was a member cut them. It is difficult,I think - 
-I will take you up on that one. It is difficult for people in the cities to realise the reliance which people in isolated areas place on air services for their mail, for their supplies, and for such things as correspondence courses for their children who are educationally disadvantaged. There are some areas in my electoratefor example, some areas in the Torres Strait- which receive a mail delivery only once every 2 months. How would honourable members opposite fight for their electorates against a problem like that? I hope that strenuous efforts will be made to improve the frequency of mail deliveries and to reduce the impositions, such as a doubling of the mail bag rates, which were made by the previous Government. I hope that the Government will give consideration to those of us who live in the isolated areas of the continent. People who work in rural areas, on farms, in mines and at sea produce 73.5 per cent of Australia's exports, and it is time they got back some of the money Australia receives for its exports. I hope that some of this wealth will be returned to the people who produce it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I rise to support this Bill. So far we have had a dismal, dull and lack-lustre performance from the Opposition. Except for the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who has just spoken, we have not had one constructive suggestion from the Opposition. We have had instead a lesson in academic destructiveness. Members of the Opposition are opposing for the sake of opposition, without conviction and without hope. Compare the performance we have had from the Opposition with that of  Mr Wran,  the Labor Premier of New South Wales, who spoke up and said that in spite of political disagreements he would work with the Budget for the sake of the future of Australia. Surely that is the sort of leadership which we should be expecting from the Opposition, but we are not getting it. The Opposition is trying to weaken the national resolve by looking back, not forward. The Budget looks to the future. It is a budget of responsibility, resolve and reason. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government on their courage in bringing down this Budget which will set 
Australia on the path to recovery after the disastrous 3 years of the Labor Government. All Australians will be better off in 12 months time. 
The Treasurer, in his Budget Speech, talked about emerging from shell holes. The enemy which we are fighting is inflation, so that unemployment may be reduced. At question time today the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made very clear the connection between inflation and unemployment which the Opposition does not seem to have realised or at least admitted in this debate. I have had some experience of emerging from shell holes. I know how difficult it is to muster the courage to get out of the shell hole and risk exposure to shot and shell. Once out of a shell hole it is vital to keep going steadily forward. All Australian infantrymen are trained that once an attack starts they must never falter or stop. There is a great natural temptation to hit the ground for safety, and once down it is very hard to get up again and continue to advance. To keep going among shot and shell takes courage, teamwork, leadership, discipline and training. If Australians are to win this battle against inflation and unemployment, we will need to show some of the great qualities that have made Australian infantrymen among the best in the world. We must move steadily forward to attack inflation. Once we start moving we must not falter or stop, whatever the problems. There is no doubt there will be problems. 
There is need for teamwork and leadership by business, management, unions, governmentsboth Federal and State- and by the Opposition but we will not get it from the Opposition. We must all work together with a common aim. The Government must have the courage and the nerve to stick to its objectives. This does not mean that we should be inflexible. Obviously there will need to be changes and adjustments during the year as circumstances change. Business must have the courage to invest, produce and employ. The whole nation must go forward with confidence. Franklin Roosevelt wrote just before he died in April 1 945: 
The only limit to our realisation of tomorrow will be our doubts of today. 
I think the Oppostion should read that statement again. 
This is a Budget of social responsibility and social compassion. A major advance is the new family allowance scheme which will help 800 000 disadvantaged children and which will give their mothers an assured income. This is one of the major social moves since Federation. The Government has been given little credit for it in public, certainly none by the Opposition. The Opposition, when in government, did not introduce it; we did. There is no doubt that the mothers who are getting their cheques now will give us the credit. They are giving us credit. Most of my electorate does not have television or commercial radio reception. In some areas there is a tendency for families to be larger than families in other parts of Australia. This applies particularly to the Aboriginal population which will benefit greatly from the new family allowance scheme. The other great advance is tax indexation, which will cost the Government $ 1,200m in a full year. This will keep the Government honest and will prevent the tax rip-off which we experienced under Labor. Again, this was not mentioned by the Opposition. The Government has done its share to keep down inflation by not increasing direct or indirect taxes. The Medibank levy is not a tax; it is a charge for service. 
Another major social advance is that pensions will be automatically adjusted to the cost of living every 6 months. This takes pensions out of the political arena. This was done by the present Government, not by the last Government. The abolition of the property component of the means test for pensioners will help many people. I trust that the next Budget will begin to carry out the Government's promise to abolish the means test. I realise that this cannot be done in a hurry, but I hope that the next Budget will move to bring down the present means test age limit of 70 years. It is pleasing to see provision made for the building of old people's homes during the next 3 years. Expenditure on such homes was slashed in the Hayden Budget of last year, despite the statement of the honourable member for Corio a few minutes ago. It is also pleasing to see that the allowances for handicapped children have gone up from $ 10 to $ 1 5 a week and that the expenditure on child care programs has been maintained. This is a Budget of social compassion and responsibility. 
It is also a Budget to get business moving again. The new incentives for business are considerable, and they have started to work already. The concessions in relation to estate duty are the beginnings of what I hope will be the complete abolition of this unjust and iniquitous tax. 
I spent an interesting time in my electorate last weekend testing the reactions to the Budget. They were generally very favourable. I had a  Tetter  today from a pensioner who, I am sure, did not vote for me at the last election. He had the grace to write to me and say: 'Well done, for automatically increasing our pensions every 6 months. It is something we wanted for a long time. We have been trying to get it for 3 years '. A man to whom I was speaking said that it was a well thought out piece of financial management. I hope the Treasurer hears that. 
Because of the Budget's provisions the mining industry can now get going again, after 3 long years of Labor neglect and obstruction. This is becoming an increasingly important industry in far north Queensland. Its future is now much brighter that it was. A vital mining industry will give much employment, and the sooner the better. 
We have heard a lot today and on other days about the problems of primary industry. They are very real problems. My electorate has its fair share of them. I think it is worth repeating what has been done by this Government so far to assist the rural sector. Let me list a few of the things which have been done. They include the suspension of the meat export levy, the reintroduction of the investment allowance for new plant and equipment, the provision of low interest carry-on finance for the beef industry which, in this Budget, amounts to $15m from the Commonwealth and which will be matched by the States on a dollar for dollar basis. That is a total of $30m. There will be more if necessary. 
There is the extension of the rural reconstruction scheme to the end of the this year, at a cost of $10m, while the Government considers the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. The dairy industry, which was discussed today, has been helped by underwriting the price of skim milk powder at $300 per tonne and by underwriting butter and cheese to $900 and $600 per tonne respectively. Both of these are very important provisions. There is the provision of $ 13.5m for adjustments in the dairy industry, and the provision to the States for this financial year of $12m for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. There is also $6.5m for a brucellosis slaughter compensation scheme, as recommended by the IAC. 
Another major social provision is the funding of household support which allows unemployment benefit to be paid to primary producers who are suffering severe financial hardship and who have registered for unemployment benefits. This has made a very great difference in my electorate, particularly in the beef areas where I know of some large families with no income who were finding it increasingly hard even to feed their children. This assistance was introduced by the present Government, not by the previous Government despite many requests for it. The previous Government said that the implementation of such a scheme would be too hard. 
I am very pleased that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has stated that the Government will keep the financial situation of rural industries under constant review and that further assistance will be provided when necessary. Of course much more needs to be done, but the first priority must be to reduce inflation which is an enemy of all rural and primary industries. 
Since the Budget announcement I have talked to many people in my electorate. It seems to me that those who are the worst off are often the most understanding and sensible. 
Last weekend I went to an area about 450 kilometres west of Cairns and met many people in the cattle industry. These are people suffering desperately from very low market prices and very high transport costs. It is not worth their while at present selling their beasts, but they understand and appreciate what is being done to help them. They do not want government handouts, although they do want low interest loans and carry-on finance, which they have got, and they would like some form of orderly marketing, which I hope they will get. What they really want is markets for their beef and reasonable prices. 
They know that the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry all nave been overseas doing their best to open up new markets and to encourage the opening of old markets which we have lost in recent years. I was most impressed and heartened by the sturdy independence of the beef producers to whom I spoke. They are determined to hang on until markets improve. They are doing all sorts of things to help themselves. One family I know has a contract for cutting railway sleepers from the timber on its property, which gives it a small cash flow while it cannot sell its cattle profitably. Others are working on the roads for their local councils so they can keep going. They are particularly bitter about the actions of the unions which are holding up primary produce exports at the moment. They are stupid and unnecessary disputes, mostly demarcation disputes which have nothing to do with real industrial action. 
The scheme for income equalisation deposits announced in the Budget is a major advance, particularly for those in primary industry who are doing well. It certainly will not help the beef producers at the moment, but a number of beef producers to whom I spoke last weekend were pleased about it. They are sensible fellows. They realise that if they had had this concession during the 1973 boom they would have been able to save from their heavily taxed income of those years enough to help them weather the present terrible times. The IED scheme should also help the sugar and grain industries, which at present are doing well, although of course they are being pressured by increasingly high costs of production. Talking of sugar, I was shocked to find last week that one of the sugar mills in my area has stopped work because of a demarcation dispute between 2 unions about who should drive a new locomotive on a cane train. I think this has been going on for 5 days. It is costing individual farmers thousands of dollars in lost production, particularly those who have already burnt their cane. 
Some honourable members are critical of the assistance given to rural industries. They do not realise how concerned rural people are about the amount of tariff protection to secondary industries which greatly raises rural costs. This year rural industries throughout Australia will receive assistance from the Government of about $286m. This compares with the tariff protection given to secondary industry, which is conservatively estimated at about $2,000m. The rural assistance is $286m as against $2,000m for secondary industry. I am beginning to agree more and more with that modest member, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  in his call for a reduction of protection for inefficient secondary industries, which only hurts the primary producer. 
A Queensland representative in the other place has criticised the Budget because, he says, it does nothing for northern Australia. This comes well from a supporter of a Labor Government which did so much to increase the disadvantages of people living in isolated areas. What did the Labor Government do? It cut out the petrol equalisation scheme. People in Burketown now pay $ 1 . 1 4 a gallon for their petrol. 
-They pay $ 1 . 1 4. 
-I hope we will. The Labor Government cut out the country airline subsidy. It cancelled the beef roads program. It cut out many country mail services or reduced their frequency. It doubled the cost of mail bag services. It reduced the length of telephone lines maintained by the Australian Telecommunications Commission from 24 kilometres to 8 kilometres. 
It did nothing to help the hard-hit rural industries. 
It was interested only in the big cities. 
All the things I just mentioned must be restored to reduce the disadvantages of people living in isolated areas. This Budget goes some way towards doing that. It has restored pan of the subsidy to country airlines. It has halved the cost of mail bags. It has increased the length of telephone line which the Telecommunications Commission maintains from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres. I hope this will be increased to 24 kilometres before too long. 
I am delighted that the sum granted to the Royal Flying Doctor Service has been increased by $900,000 to $2m for this year. People living in the cities may find it difficult to realise the importance of this service in providing what is called a mantle of safety to the people of the north and also in providing the only communication network for many people. Together with all other honourable members representing large isolated electorates, I would like to have seen more done in this Budget, but I realise that until we beat the main enemy, inflation, and its relation, unemployment, we cannot expect too much. I hope that the next Budget will restore all those concessions destroyed by the Labor Government. I would particularly like to see the petrol equalisation scheme reintroduced and more money spent on our appalling roads. In future more must be spent on all forms of communicationon roads, on radio, on television, on ports and on airlines, all the things that make life more bearable for people in isolated areas. 
All of us who live in Australia's front line in the far north are concerned with defence. I strongly support the increases in the defence budget. They are the minimum required to keep the defence force going. I will not speak more on this subject now as I note it is listed later in the notice paper. It is vital that this Budget should work. It is vital for all Australians and for our future. I hope everyone in Australia will get out of his shell hole and move forward in the fight to beat inflation and restore employment in this country. I condemn the destructiveness of the Opposition's amendment to this Bill and I strongly support the Bill as introduced by the Treasurer. 
-Can the Minister for Transport indicate to the House the present position in regard to the dispute between Connair Pty Ltd and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots which has resulted in a ban on airline services to Alice Springs and a crippling of that town by the denial of services? Will the Minister assure the House that the Government will do everything within its power to ensure that essential airline operations are maintained in the Northern Territory? What has been the effect of the ban imposed by the Federation on the operation of Connair? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. On 10 October the Minister announced the approved beef roads program for Queensland up to June 1977. Only one short section, from Mungana to Highbury, was included in the program in the Gulf and Cape York Peninsula areas in my electorate. The Minister will be aware of the very urgent need for sealed all-weather roads to open up this vast and productive area. Will the Minister give an indication as to when roads in these areas will be included in the beef roads program? Can he give an assurance that priority will be given to beef roads in the Gulf and Peninsula areas in the next program? 
I was delighted at the announcement made on 12 November that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will visit the Torres Strait later this month. He will be the first Prime Minister to visit the Torres Strait, the northern extremity of Australia. It is very important that the Prime Minister should meet the Torres Strait Islanders in their home territory, to see their way of life, to understand the relation between the islands and the sea and that way of life and to hear their strongly expressed views on their future. All of the islands of the Torres Strait are within my electorate of Leichhardt. I have a great respect and affection for this fine and energetic people. They were great warriors and fought to establish and keep their islands. Now they are fighting with words, not spears and clubs, but their fighting spirit and determination is evident in thenefforts to retain their unique way of life. 
I have not previously spoken in the Parliament on this matter, but I have been working very hard behind the scenes to present the views of the islanders to the Prime Minister and all other Ministers concerned. This was the best way I could serve my constituents in the area. I decided to speak tonight because of a report in the  Courier Mail  of last Friday, 12 November. This suggested the possibility of a protected zone in the Torres Strait without a seabed demarcation line running through it as was originally planned. This is a compromise which I have been recommending strongly for some months, although I should point out that I was not the source from which this newspaper report came. Briefly my compromise proposal is as follows: Firstly, a protected zone should be agreed to include all the islands and seas of the Torres Strait and the area of the zone outside Australian territory and Australian territorial waters should be administered by some form of joint commission. Secondly, no seabed line should be drawn within the protected zone. Thirdly, all resources contained within the protected zone, outside Australian territory and the Australian territorial seas generated by that territory, should be shared equally between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Lastly, outside the eastern and western boundaries of the protected zone Papua New Guinea should be allotted the seabed north to the mainland median line and Australia the seabed south of that line. 
This compromise overcomes the very stong objections put forward by the Torres Strait Islanders to any seabed line within the protected zone. They believe that such a line would divide their land, their seas and their people and would be a source of future friction and misunderstandings. I agree with them. Traditionally they have always shared the resources of the seas of the Torres Strait with the coastal Papuans and they are quite prepared to continue this sharing within a protected zone. They have their own agreements on the sharing of these resources which have been worked out over generations and are well known to all. If the real problem is the sharing of any other resources which may be found within the area an equal sharing of such resources between Australia and Papua New Guinea would seem to be a very sensible and practical compromise. An internationally recognised commission comprising representatives of Australia, Papua New Guinea, Queensland and the Islanders formed to administer the sharing of resources would overcome many of the difficulties or frictions which are likely to arise if the Torres Strait Islands and the seas around them are divided by a sea bed line or by any other sort of line 
Several times both inside and outside this Parliament the Prime Minister has stated that it is the firm objective of the Government to arrive at a settlement which will protect the rights and interests of the Islanders and preserve their traditional way of life and livelihood. He has emphasised that the continued wellbeing of the Islanders is linked to the conclusion of a satisfactory settlement with Papua New Guinea over this issue. There is no doubt now that the Torres Strait Islanders will remain Australian citizens and that the Torres Strait Islands will remain Australian territory. It is now recognised that a protected zone should be an essential part of any settlement. The Prime Minister stated at the Liberal Party annual convention at Toowoomba on 3 October 1976: 
The protective zone is a fundamental requirement. My Government believes that the first priority of all is to ensure that the Australian Islanders of the Torres Strait shall be able to live and sustain themselves in the Torres Strait as they have always done. This is an absolute requirement. 
It was good to hear such strongly stated terms from the Prime Minister. It is my firm belief that the long term interests of the Torres Strait Islanders, Queensland and Australia will best be served by an agreement which includes a protected Zone. 
Because of the fiasco of the interrupted debate on the White Paper on defence last Thursday, I have decided to speak in this grievance debate. This may be my only opportunity to speak on this matter and I shall make only a very short speech. I am appalled at the very low priority given to the vital subject of the security of the nation. I strongly support the White Paper on defence and congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  on it. It provides a valuable guide to discussion and debate and it deserved a much better fate in this chamber. It is the most comprehensive document on defence presented to this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member that he might be able to say exactly the same thing without referring to the White Paper. This would make the task of the Chair a little easier. 
-I accept your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Inevitably, some questions on defence are left unanswered. After over 30 years of wide and varied experience in the defence forces, I am very well aware of the immense complexity of the issues and of how little any one man can know and understand unless he is engaged full dme in this field. I wish to confine myself to 2 major issues: Firstly, national aims and objectives and, secondly, the provision of an effective deterrent to armed attack on the nation. Because of the vital importance of the security of the nation and the immense cost of effective defence, it is of the first importance that the national aims and objectives should be clearly and simply stated. All those concerned with the defence of the nation are facing a fundamentally new, challenging and exciting task. Now for the first time we as a nation have a firmly stated and accepted responsibility for the defence of our whole continent. It takes time to change national attitudes. Perhaps it is too soon to have achieved a complete reassessment of our aims and objectives based on our new responsibility to defend ourselves. 

 Major questions of approach and philosophy have to be decided. Until these are decided we cannot get the right answers on the shape and size of our defence forces or on the most effective level of technology and the related problems of logistics and local defence production. Our national strategic objectives should be a combination of military, political and economic factors, preferably compatible but often conflicting. For example, in 1965 and 1966 Australian servicemen were fighting Indonesians in East Malaysia during confrontation. At the same time we maintained diplomatic relations with Indonesia and continued to give aid. As one involved in that small operation, I believe that was a realistic and practical decision. 
We must now take a hard and realistic look at our present situation. We cannot always in the future depend upon the protection of a great power. In differing sets of circumstances we may find that the interests of our major allies and our interests are not the same. The key to our defence policy remains the strength of our alliance with the United States and the ANZUS treaty. Yet this alliance, however strong it may be, must not lull us into a false sense of security. We cannot rely upon treaties alone to protect us. John Hobbs, the 1 8th century philosopher, said: Covenants without swords are but words'. Australia has far too few swords to back its covenants. Our swords are blunt. We do not have sufficient capacity to sharpen our own swords or to make new ones. 
It is imperative that we should have an independent defence against potential threats which might arise in our area or neighbourhood. 
These threats may not necessarily be identified as potential threats to the United States. Most of our neighbours are not potential enemies of the United States but in some circumstances we could be in conflict with them. If we accept that in some circumstances the United States may not always be willing or able to support us, we must be capable of conducting an independent military defence and of possessing a credible, independent military deterrent. 
Our first priority is to provide forces for the most effective independent defence of Australia, its islands and its seas, within our capacity to do so. Our second priority is for a defence readiness in situations where we would have the support of a great power. The defence of Australia requires very different forces from those required for our old posture of forward defence. Our position is unique and requires unique solutions. These new priorities must make us question the whole structure of our forces and their support from within our own resources. The very high cost of modern defence equipment makes a clear definition of national strategic aims and objectives very important indeed. Without clearly stated aims there will always be the temptation to purchase better and more expensive equipment to replace dated and aging equipment. This tendency is known as the 'replacement syndrome'. It may well be valid that we do need more of the same equipment but this is not necessarily so. 
We live in a very uncertain and rapidly changing part of the world. This calls for very sound contingency planning by the Services. The shape, size and the equipment of the defence forces must be able to cope with quite unexpected contingencies at short notice. These may start as small-scale operations which could escalate rapidly. I have considerable respect for the procedures within the Department of Defence which evaluate policies and requirements and which advise the Government. I wish to make one point about defence planning. In the organisation chart of the policy divisions of Defence Central I note there are very few senior military planners and large numbers of senior civilians. There seems to be an imbalance, which is reflected in parts of recent statements. This could lead to inadequate military input into defence policies and planning. 
Unless national aims and objectives are clearly stated by the Government these defence planners will operate without adequate guidance. There is perhaps a temptation to give undue weight to the 'replacement syndrome' and to the desire to maintain the state of the art in a wide range of capabilities which may not be relevant to the national aims. It may be that all the decisions made are the best possible in the circumstances. 
However, there will always be a difficult argument in favour of a few technologically advanced and very expensive pieces of equipment against the counter argument that our independent defence capacity would be best served by having a large number of cheaper, less sophisticated pieces of equipment. I hope my few points on the need for clear national aims and objectives will help to kindle debate and interest in this major issue, both inside and outside this chamber. 
I wish now to deal with my second major point; our ability to deter any threat. We have a unique situation. It is fashionable to compare Australia with Sweden and Switzerland. This comparison is not relevant. Our strategic circumstances could not be more different. We are a great island continent and an enemy can reach our shores only by air or over or under the sea. Therefore, our most important national strategic objective should be the capacity to deter or to defer the mounting of major operations against Australia. The priority should be against the higher levels of threat. The best way to achieve this military objective would be to cause a would-be aggressor to face the problem of mounting a large-scale tri-Service operation by air and by sea. Provided Australia has adequate air and sea surveillance capacity such an invasion force would be very vulnerable to attack far from our shores. This situation emphasises the importance of the Navy and the Air Force. But it does not mean for a moment that the importance of the Army as part of the deterrent force should be under-rated. 
The capacity and structure of the Army will determine the quality and quantity of men and material an aggressor would have to deliver and sustain in Australia in a conventional military operation. We can and must acquire the capacity to cause a potential aggressor to mount a disproportionate response in terms of money, time and material. If we possess a credible deterrent there are few powers which have the capacity to threaten us. It must be made just too difficult. This strengthens our position in foreign negotiations, and makes it much less likely that we will be forced into political and diplomatic actions which are not in the national interest. I have not mentioned the most important part of our defence forces- the men and women of the Services. I conclude with this quotation: 
Nothing has' ever been made until the soldier has made safe the field where the building shall be built: And the soldier is the scaffolding until it has been built, and the soldier gets no reward but honour. 
I am most grateful for the opportunity to speak on this very important subject. I spoke briefly on it in the Grievance Debate last week, but I was limited because of a very correct ruling by the  Deputy Speaker  that I could not mention the White Paper at that time. At the expense of some repetition I want to expand on my theme of last week. I must say that I was very encouraged by the support for a bipartisan defence policy which was expressed by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  This issue is far too important, as a national issue, for partisan party politics. It is an extremely complex subject. There are no simple answers, and we should not look for simple answers. 
I would like sincerely to congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Government on the White Paper. Many other members have spoken on it, but I believe that it is a valuable guide for discussion and debate. It contains a calm, sensible and frank strategic assessment. It is the most comprehensive document on defence produced in this Parliament. Inevitably, it leaves some questions unanswered. I have some understanding of the constraints under which such a paper is written- security, of course, being one great problem. After more than 30 years of wide and varied experience in the defence forces, I know very well the immense complexity of the issues and how little any one man can know and understand unless he is engaged in this field full time. The details are for the Government's expert advisers, both military and civil. In this Parliament we can best contribute to the defence of Australia by a broad and informed understanding of the wider issues and by using the Parliament as a forum in which to impress on the nation the vital importance of the defence forces and their place in the national and international scene. 
I do not propose to speak in detail or to deal in any depth with the White Paper. Other speakers and sections of the media have done this already. I wish to confine myself to 2 major issues: Firstly, national aims and objectives and, secondly, the provision of an effective deterrent to armed attack on this nation. Because of the vital importance of the security of the nation and the immense cost of effective defence, it is of the first importance that the national aims and objectives should be stated clearly and simply. All those concerned with the defence of the nation are facing a fundamentally new, challenging and exciting task. Generations of Australians have been conditioned to a forward defence policy. Our organisation and equipment have always been similar to those of our major allies, although their resources were incomparably greater and they operated within a much wider global context. Today in Sydney I attended the opening of a memorial to the Royal Australian Regiment in which I served for many years. It was a sad, moving and significant occasion, but it brought to mind the fact that battalions of that Regiment served continuously overseas from 1945 to 1972 -a total of 27 years. Since 1972 all battalions of that Regiment have been serving in Australia, concentrating on the defence of this country. 
Previously, the shape and size of our forces were decided on financial grounds not necessarily related to our strategic requirements. Our contributions to other forces were token and often arbitrary. Now, for the first time, we as a nation have a firmly stated and accepted responsibility for the defence of the whole continent. It takes time to change national attitudes. Perhaps it is too soon to have achieved a complete reassessment of our aims and objectives based on our new responsibility to defend ourselves. There are major questions of approach and philosophy to be decided. Until these are decided we cannot get the right answers on the shape and size of our defence forces or on the most effective level of technology and the related problems of logistics and local defence production. 
Our national and strategic objectives should be a combination of military, political and economic factors, preferably compatible but often conflicting. For example, in 1965 and 1966 Australian servicemen were fighting Indonesians in East Malaysia during confrontation. At the same time we maintained diplomatic relations with Indonesia and continued to give aid. As one closely involved in that small war I, and all other servicemen involved, realised that this was the right approach for Australia's future relations with Indonesia. Potentially, it was a much more explosive issue than the present argument over Timor. 
We must now take a hard and realistic look at our present situation. We cannot always in the future depend on the protection of a great power. In differing sets of circumstances we may find that the interests of our major allies and our interests are not the same. The key to our defence policy remains the strength of our alliance with the United States and the ANZUS Treaty. Yet this alliance, however strong it may be, must not lull us into a sense of false security. We cannot rely on treaties alone to protect us. John Hobbs, the eighteenth century philosopher said: Covenants without swords are but words'. At present Australia has too few swords to back its covenants. Our swords are blunt. We do not have sufficient capacity to sharpen our own swords or to make new ones. The provisions of the White Paper, when implemented, will greatly increase our capacity to back our covenants. We cannot expect the United States to help us in a defence emergency unless we show that we are prepared to do our utmost to defend ourselves. This is clearly stated in the Nixon or Guam doctrine. 
Our main concern must be with those powers whose lesser strategic importance to the United States may inhibit United States assistance or deterrent action. If there is no United States deterrent we may be forced to make concessions unless we are prepared to develop our own deterrent posture. Therefore it is imperative that we should have an independent defence against potential threats in our area or neighbourhood. These threats may not necessarily be identified as potential threats to the United States. Most of our neighbours are not potential enemies of the United States, but in some circumstances we could be in conflict with them. These circumstances add greater emphasis to the importance of an independent defence capacity. If we accept that the United States may not always be willing or able to support us we must be capable of conducting an independent military defence and of possessing a credible, independent military deterrent. 
Our first priority is to provide forces for the most effective independent defence of Australia, its islands and its seas, within our capacity to do so. I stress, within our capacity to do so. The second priority is for our defence readiness in situations where we would have the support of a great power. The defence of the Australian continent requires very different forces from those required for our old posture of forward defence in co-operation with major allies. Our position is unique and calls for unique solutions. These new priorities must make us question the whole structure of our forces and their support from within our own resources. 
The high cost of modern defence equipment makes a clear definition of national strategic aims and objectives so important. Without clearly stated aims there always will be the temptation to purchase better and more expensive equipment to replace dated and aging equipment. This tendency is known as the replacement syndrome. It may well be valid that we do need more of the same, but this is not necessarily so. There will always be constraints on the freedom of action of our defence planners in that there must be limits to defence spending. These are set by the state of the economy or by the limits of public interest and understanding. I am grateful that in my electorate in the far north of Australia there is no lack of public interest. We all believe up there that we live in the front line of Australia, and recent events have made that only too clear. 
-I thank the honourable member for Darling Downs for his constructive comments. We live in a very uncertain and rapidly changing part of the world. It is impossible to define the time limits to be set on any proposals which we make. Our planning must be sufficiently flexible to take into account all sorts of possibilities. This calls for very sound contingency planning by the Services. The shape, size and equipment of the defence force must be able to cope with quite unexpected emergencies at very short notice. Because of the lead time for the manufacture and purchase of many equipments, decisions must often be made many years in advance. 
I have considerable respect for the procedures within the Department of Defence which evaluate policies and requirements and advise the Government. I wish to make one point about defence planning. In the organisation chart of the policy divisions of Defence Central I note that there are very few senior military planners and large numbers of senior civilians. There seems to be an imbalance which is reflected in parts of the White Paper. This could perhaps lead to inadequate military input into defence policies and planning. Unless the national aims and objectives are clearly stated by the Government these defence planners must work with inadequate guidance. In these circumstances there is a temptation to give undue weight to the replacement syndrome and the desire to maintain the state of the art in a wide range of capabilities which may not be relevant to the national aims. It may be that all the decisions made are the best possible in the circumstances. However, there will always be a difficult argument between the conflicting desires to have a few technologically advanced and very expensive equipments and the counterargument that our independent defence capacity would best be served by having a larger number of cheaper and less sophisticated equipments. I do not know the answers. Only the defence experts can provide them, but they will be assisted by a clear direction from the Government and an informed and concerned Parliament and people. 
Two major decisions mentioned in the White Paper which must soon be made are those on the replacement of the tactical fighter force and whether HMAS  Melbourne  is to be replaced to give Australia, as a great maritime nation, a seabased air capability. The White Paper recognises the great difficulties in reaching the right decisions on these problems. I hope that my few points on the need for clear national aims and objectives will help to kindle debate and interest in this major issue. I now wish to deal with my second major point- our ability to deter any threat. The White Paper mentions this only briefly. I have said that we have a unique situation. It is fashionable to compare Australian with Sweden and Switzerland. This comparison is not relevant. Our strategic circumstances could not be more different. We are a great island continent and an enemy can reach our shores only by air or over or under the sea. Therefore our most important national strategic objective should be the capacity to deter or to defer the mounting of major operations against Australia. The priority should be against the higher levels of threat. If we deter the higher levels we should be able to handle the lower levels, difficult as many of these may be. 
The best way to achieve this military objective would be to cause a would be aggressor to face the problem of mounting a large scale tri-service operation by air and/or sea. Provided Australia has adequate air and sea surveillance capacity any such invasion force would be very vulnerable to attack far from our shores. This situation emphasises the importance of the Air Force and Navy contribution to an overall strategic deterrent force particularly in the roles of maritime strike and air superiority. This does not mean for a moment that the importance of the Army, as part of the deterent force, should be underrated. The capacity and structure of the Army will determine the capacity, quality and quantity of the men and materiel an aggressor would have to deliver and sustain in Australia in a conventional military operation. 
Therefore the essence of any effective defence policy is the provision of a credible military capacity to deter the possibiltiy of attack and invasion. As a middle rank economic power we need to develop a military capability with a limited range of selected characteristics sufficient to persuade even a vastly superior military power that compromise is more realistic and desirable than conflict. Sweden and Switzerland have thenthreats on their doorstep. Their strategic response is governed by the fact that as soon as hostilities commenced they would be locked in a close quarter tactical battle. Their potential aggressors have the power and the initiative. Not so for Australia. We have the initiative. We can dictate, by the size and shape of our deterrent, the force needed by a regional power to attack or invade us. 
If we possess a credible deterrent there are few powers which have the capacity to threaten us. It must be made too difficult. This strengthens our position in foreign negotiations and makes it less likely that we will be forced into political and diplomatic actions which are not in the national interest. I have not talked about the most important part of our defence force- the men and women of our services. I wish I had more time to spend on this matter. I conclude with a quotation: 
Nothing has ever been made until the soldier has made safe the field where the building shall be built: and the soldier is the scaffolding until it has been built, and the soldier gets no reward but honour. 
I welcome the detailed and objective statement by the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  which sets out Australia's attitudes to our global problems in foreign affairs. This is the most comprehensive and far-reaching statement in many years. I congratulate the Foreign Minister on grasping so many difficult nettles at one time. He has given us a realistic view of the world as it is, not necessarily the world as we would like it to be. It is a changing world in which many old certainties have been swept away. For the first time we in Australia must think independently and for ourselves in both our foreign policy and our defence policy. We are not used to doing this. There is a need for us to have clearly stated aims and objectives in both foreign affairs and defence. I believe that much hard work needs to be done in this field, recognising our new place in our region and in the world. This will not be easy. It will require both imagination and originality- qualities which have not often been very evident or perhaps even very necessary in our past thinking. 
Our national aims and objectives should be a combination of political, geographical, economic and military factors, preferably compatible but often, regrettably, conflicting. Until we define our national aims precisely there is a danger that we will make  ad hoc  and short term decisions. The Foreign Minister's statement goes a long way towards clarifying many difficult issues. Other speakers in splendid historical speeches have dealt more than adequately with the past. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was outstanding in this regard. Regrettably, some other speeches have been less than relevant to Australia and its place in the world. 
It is impossible to range the world and all our problems in 1 5 minutes. I want to speak of the future, not the past, and to bring the discussion much closer to home. I welcome the Foreign Minister's statement on the Indian Ocean. He makes a very real point, namely, that it can become a zone of peace only if it first becomes a zone of balance. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated last week and as the Foreign Minister repeated yesterday, our concern is that this balance be achieved at the lowest practicable level. We should welcome and support any lessening of tension in the Indian Ocean- an area which of course is of vital importance to us. Personally I would be against dismantling the facilities on Diego Garcia unless the Soviet Union dismantled its facilities in Berbera and elsewhere in the Indian Ocean. Even then there would be great risks. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  spoke at some length about Indonesia. Indonesia, with its vast population, its potentially great resources and its many islands stretching across our northern doorstep, is the most important country to Australia in South 
East Asia. We must do all in our power to maintain and expand good relations with Indonesia. The Foreign Minister gave an excellent summary of the problems inherited by the Government from the Labor Administration in relation to East Timor. The situation is difficult and very delicate, and I am convinced that the present problems are not best served by passionate discussion in this chamber. The Foreign Minister made the same point in answering a question during question time today. 
I turn very briefly to Papua New Guinea. Much has been said already about our relations with Papua New Guinea. It is imperative that our present close relations with Papua New Guinea be expanded and developed. The southern coast of Papua is only about 5 kilometres from the northern part of my electorate; so all the people in the electorate of Leichhardt, including myself, are very much aware of the significance of our relations with Papua New Guinea. Several times recently I have been questioned on why we give so much aid to Papua New Guinea. I believe that as the former colonial power we have a great responsibility to help the splendid efforts of the Papua New Guinea Government in developing the country and improving the sometimes very low standard of living of the people. I know New Guinea fairly well, and I strongly support the level of aid which we are giving. It is an insurance policy for the future, and I am sure that it will pay handsome dividends and bonuses. I have similar views on the necessity to continue to give aid to Indonesia. This aid is not large, but it is significant in showing our goodwill towards this very important neighbour. 
Much more controversial is the modest aid program which we have initiated for Vietnam. The Foreign Minister makes the point that the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has a population of 50 million and military forces which are the largest in South East Asia. We should not forget that a great many Vietnamese supported Australian forces in Vietnam over a number of years, often at great risk to themselves. Our small aid program for Vietnam is for both humanitarian and political reasons, and it concentrates on agricultural development. I have travelled over all of South Vietnam, and I believe that we owe this modest aid to the people. 
I turn briefly to our neighbours in the South Pacific. Many of them have become independent recently or will become independent shortly. They are of increasing importance to Australia. I agree with the Foreign Minister when he says that previous governments of all parties have not given the South Pacific the attention it deserves, and I welcome the increased attention we are giving to this area. The greatly increased aid program which was announced recently, of $60m for the 3 years from 1976 to 1979, 1 am sure will have the support of all Australians. By comparison with most of the other countries in our region, we are an extremely wealthy country, and we have a responsibility to share some of our wealth with our less fortunate neighbours. 
Perhaps I am the only member of this House who has difficult foreign policy problems within his own electorate. The Foreign Minister is not used to private members banging on his door with problems. I thank him for the patience and understanding he has shown to me. One of the most difficult problems with which I am faced is the definition of the boundary between Australia and Papua New Guinea in the Torres Strait. This is a very difficult problem, and it must be resolved so that the people of the Torres Strait remain Australian citizens and the islands and the territorial seas around them remain Australian and Queensland territory and seas. I last spoke on this important matter in the House on 16 November last year. Now, as then, I welcome the agreement which has been reached between Australia and Papua New Guinea that a protected zone should be established in the area confirming the traditional rights of the Torres Strait Islanders and the coastal Papuans. 
I have had many discussions with the leaders of the Torres Strait, the last one being just before question time today. I hope that the leaders with whom I spoke are in the gallery behind me listening to this speech. The Torres Strait Island leaders are agreed that the resources of the Torres Strait in the protected zone outside the Australian islands and the territorial waters should be shared equally between Australia and Papua New Guinea. I strongly support their views on this. I also support their contention that there should be no sea bed line within the protected zone. They believe that such a line would cause much future friction in the area. 
The Torres Strait Islanders are a fine, determined and independent people. They have recently produced their own solution to the difficult task of the definition of boundaries. In recent months the leaders of the Torres Strait, together with the leaders of the coastal Papuans, have worked closely to define what they know to be the traditional boundary between their 2 countries. Together they have agreed on the exact line of their traditional boundary, a boundary which was recognised long before Europeans came to the Torres Strait. I strongly support the contention of both the Torres Strait Islanders and the Papuans that it is this traditional boundary which should be recognised by both Australia and Papua and New Guinea and not any one of the various arbitrary lines which have been drawn on the map, often by people who have never been to the area. A traditional boundary line recognised by both the coastal Papuans and the Torres Strait Islanders is infinitely preferable to an arbitrary line imposed by outsiders. I commend this solution to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to the Government. 
Now I turn briefly to the Law of the Sea Conference. I was very interested in the statement by the Foreign Minister on the deliberations of this conference. A number of states have already declared a 200-mile economic zone. In due course I would strongly support a declaration of a 200-mile economic zone by Australia. This involves giving states jurisdiction over the living and non-living resources of the sea and the sea bed up to 200 miles from the coast. Such a declaration by Australia would have great significance in my electorate, particularly in the Gulf of Carpentaria and in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. There is constant friction between local fishermen and foreign fishing vessels in the area. A declaration by Australia of a 200-mile economic zone would effectively close the Gulf of Carpentaria and would protect the marvels of the Great Barrier Reef from ruthless pillage by foreign fishermen. A 200-mile economic zone poses enormous problems for Australia. The sea area involved is almost as large as the land mass of our continent. The task of surveillance and defence of this vast new area is an immense responsibility. I know that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is very concerned about the solution to this problem. We will need to spend very much more to provide surveillance and protection in this area. 
I agree with the Foreign Minister's statement that we should do our best at the next Law of the Sea Conference not to prejudice the success of the conference. If the conference fails to reach agreement, we would have little alternative but to unilaterally declare a 200-mile economic zone. Once again I congratulate the Foreign Minister on his statement. I hope that it will generate public discussion on the need for a bipartisan approach to the problems of Australia's place in our region and the world. 
I am honoured to take part in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to  Her  Majesty's Speech. The visit of  Her  Majesty and the opening of Parliament by her were great Australian occasions. The visit of the Queen sparked a great deal of comment devoted to the cause of a republican Australia. Just after the arrival of  Her  Majesty I attended a luncheon at the National Press Club in Canberra, which was addressed by that high priest of republicanism, Donald Home. If I had been a swinging voter on the question of a republican Australia, I would have come away from that luncheon a confirmed monarchist. The speech was dull, repetitive, destructive and negative. It was over-concerned with and overinfluenced by the events of November 1975. 
-Yes, it was very typical of him. The questions by the media after the speech were little better. I suppose most of them were covering the visit by  Her  Majesty. It seems that so far all the running in this discussion has been made by the republican cause. It is high time that those who believe in our form of constitutional monarchy spoke out loudly and clearly. This is what I propose to do tonight. 
I am not an emotional monarchist tied to the past. I am a practical monarchist because I believe that is the best system of government yet devised. I have spent many years living and travelling in other countries and I have seen dictatorships both of the right and the left. They are equally bad. I have seen one-party governments of different sorts and I have seen various forms of presidential government. None of these, as far as I could see, offered a really satisfactory alternative to our form of constitutional monarchy. The  Canberra Times  of 1 1 March carried the headline 'Wishy washy monarchists versus rootless republican intellectuals'. I think that is a splendid headline, the author of which should be congratulated. I am certainly not a 'wishy washy monarchist' but there do seem to be many 'rootless republican intellectuals'. They seem to want to destroy our present system of government without producing any clear idea of a worthwhile alternative. 
Republicans, particularly of the rootless intellectual variety, seem to be committed to a republic which is a socialist and unitary state. Very often the formation of a socialist and unitary state is the first step towards various forms of dictatorship or one-party government. The republicans seem to be confusing arguments against the Constitution because of the events of November 1975 with arguments against the monarchial system. Surely they are 2 different issues. There are very good arguments for changes to the Constitution but I believe there is one vital principle which must be preserved. That principle is that the head of state must be able to dismiss a bad government and order an election. In this way the people can speak and make a decision on the issues. This is the very essence of democracy. On 13 December 1975 the people spoke in a loud clear voice. The composition of this House today shows that they were in no doubt as to what they wanted. This power to dismiss a bad government and to call for elections is a major guarantee against dictatorship or one party government. It is one of the great checks and balances of our system. It is insurance against a Watergate in Australia. 
It is regrettable that the issue of republicans versus constitutional monarchists is bound to be a political issue. If this is so, those who support our present system of constitutional monarchy must speak out so that their voices are not drowned by those tasteless demonstrators whom we saw during the Queen's visit and by the rantings and ravings of the rootless republican intellectuals. Donald Home, in his speech to the National Press Club, said: 
The Queen can be seen as a symbol of division. 
What utter nonsense. The overwhelmingly friendly and enthusiastic welcome which the Queen received everywhere she went was an indication of what the Australian people really think of the monarchy and our system. I must congratulate the armed services for their magnificent parade after the opening of Parliament. The parade brought back to me many happy memories of times past. I hope that parades such as that will be repeated throughout Australia so that people can see more of the Services. 
Having declared myself as a believer in constitutional monarchy I would like to turn now to some of the problems in my electorate of Leichhardt in far north Queensland. In February and March we had 2 very destructive floods. The rain gauge on top of Mount Bellenden Ker, which is not very far from where I live, registered from 28 January rainfall of over 7 metres- that is over 280 inches of rain- in less than 6 weeks. That must be something for the  Guinness Book of Records.  I repeat that we had 280 inches of rain in less than 6 weeks. Record or not, it caused a great deal of destruction. 
Yes, we are growing webbed feet. I spent last weekend visiting the flood areas and inspecting the damage. I know that my friend and neighbour, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  was doing the same thing in his electorate which also suffered very badly. The amount of damage is still to be calculated but I am certain it will run into many millions of dollars. There was damage to roads and bridges and to train lines. There was also damage to sugar fields and to banana crops and damage of course to houses and personal possessions, furniture, carpets, vehicles and machinery. 
The announcement last week by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that the Commonwealth will meet its commitments together with the State Government will do much to provide funds to repair the damage. But much more needs to be done. On 8 December 1976 the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  tabled in this House a discussion paper entitled  A Natural Disaster Insurance Scheme for Australia.  The Government has decided in principle to introduce such a scheme and I hope that the details will be worked out as quickly as possible and a suitable scheme announced. Whilst it is not possible for householders and property owners to insure against cyclone damage, it is very difficult and very expensive to insure against flood damage, particularly in flood prone areas. I have tried and I know. This makes a properly instituted national disaster insurance scheme of the utmost importance and urgency. 
I note that the discussion paper tabled on 8 December does not attempt to discuss the question of natural disaster crop insurance which is under separate consideration. I would urge the Treasurer to have this matter resolved as soon as possible. I saw large areas of cane fields destroyed and millions of dollars will be lost to the sugar industry as a result of this destruction. At present there is no way in which such crops can be insured. Perhaps our experience of the Brisbane floods, the Darwin Cyclone, Cyclone Ted on 20 December last year which destroyed so much of Burketown and Mornington Island in my electorate, the terrible fires in Victoria last month and now the floods in North Queensland will impel the Government to move very quickly on the matter of a natural disaster insurance scheme. 
I would like to deal now with another major problem in my electorate, namely, the lack of communications in all forms. During the debate in this House on 24 February 1977 on the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  at page 484 of  Hansard  is reported as saying: 
We live in a world of communication- telephones, travel, television and all the rest of it and we are now in communication in a way which was not possible when electorates were first drawn. 
The honourable member knows much better than that for he is one of the few members of this 
House who knows something of my distant and isolated electorate. The honourable member knows that very large areas of my electorate have no telephone service. There are very few roads and those roads which do exist are unusable for four or five months of the year during the wet season. Beyond a radius of 60 kilometres or so from Cairns there is no television service and no commercial radio. Many people in my electorate can receive the Australian Broadcasting Commission only by use of strong short wave sets and none of them can listen to the broadcasting of parliamentary debates. 
-I must say that listening to some of the debates, particularly speeches by the honourable member for Hunter, I am delighted that they cannot. Two weeks ago I toured my electorate with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. We travelled from Cairns to Cooktown, Thursday Island, Weipa, Normanton and Burketown. That is about 20 times around Victoria. On this trip the Minister became aware of the grave deficiencies of communications in isolated areas. For example, the people of Burketown assured us that their postal and telegraph services were much better 30 to 50 years ago than they are today. When the people in my electorate hear about the cities with their FM and ethnic radio, a choice of several television channels, many commercial radio stations and private telephones and public telephones available to nearly everyone, it is very hard for them to understand why they cannot get the barest minimum in the form of communications. 
-They would not agree with you there. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications announced recently that the Australian Telecommunications and Postal Commissions were to spend more in rural areas. Let us wait and see whether that happens. I know that these commissions are statutory authorities, that they are in effect a law unto themselves and that they are not readily responsible to this Parliament. The Act setting up the statutory commissions gives the Minister power to direct the commissions to act in the national interest. If the communications and postal services do not improve I will urge the Minister to invoke that power and direct the commissions to act to provide better services to the people in isolated areas of Australia. It is these areas that produce so much of the wealth of the nation. They do not use very much of it but they produce it. The cities use the wealth. They eat it up and it is time that we had something back. It is very unfortunate that there seems to be an increasing lack of understanding between people in the cities and people in rural areas. I do not want to add to this problem, but I am convinced that the imbalance between city and country must be corrected in order to give country people at least some of the amenities which are taken for granted by city people. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr James)  adjourned. 
I rise to support this Bill. I must say that I was surprised by the sarcastic comments of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  which ill become him. This is not an important measure. He knows it. He was trying to make political capital out of it. It must be one of the running shots in the current leadership battle which the Opposition is having. 
-I will not be taking a bet on it. This is a simple Bill. It removes an unnecessary requirement under the Defence Act that collectors of defence decorations obtain permission for that purpose. It is an unnecessary restriction and I am glad to see that it has been removed. However, I am sure all honourable members would agree that there must be some controls on the use of Service decorations, particularly the need to ensure that they are treated with respect. I am delighted to see that this has been taken into account. Accordingly, it will remain an offence for a person to wear a Service decoration, to falsely represent himself as a person entitled to wear such a decoration or to deface or destroy such a decoration. Of course there must be some changes to the present Bill and the Government recognises that fact. I am glad to see that some use of Service decorations is legitimate and that approval is given for them to be worn for dramatic purposes. I am glad to see this because many times throughout my Service career I loaned parts of my uniform, perhaps illegally, to members of dramatic societies for this purpose. 
-I always got them back again. The honourable member is being facetious. I am also pleased to see that the Government has decided to retain a provision allowing a member of a family of the person on whom a Service decoration has been conferred to wear the decoration, provided, of course, that that person does not represent himself or herself as the person on whom the decoration has been conferred. Honourable members who have attended Anzac Day marches will know how proudly so many wives, widows, mothers and children of servicemen wear their decorations. I believe this Bill represents a proper balance between the need to encourage collectors of Service decorations who are contributing to the conservation of Australia's military heritage and the need to protect Service decorations, whether or not they are in the hands of collectors, from any form of misuse. I support the Bill. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. As he is aware, the Queensland sugar industry attaches the utmost importance to the negotiation of a new International Sugar Agreement with effective economic provisions. What prospect does he see for the successful negotiation of a new sugar agreement in the negotiations opening in Geneva next month? 
-Any admiration I might have had for the logic of the mind of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has been destroyed by the cynical, irresponsible and ridiculous terms of this matter of public importance. It has been used as a vehicle for malicious and absurd gossip and as an excuse for a lengthy diatribe against the Central Intelligence Agency. I quote the matter of public importance because I think the House should be reminded of it. It reads: 
The need for Parliamentary scrutiny of foreign intelligence services in Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition stated very firmly that he would not agree to scrutiny of Australian security services by this Parliament. How he expects the Parliament to scrutinise foreign intelligence services I do not know. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  mentioned the matter, but he did not go into detail as to how he expected it to be done. It is the job of the Executive, not the legislature, to oversee the operations of the security services of our nation and the activities of any other security services which may or may not be operating in Australia. It was interesting that the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Corio and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke almost entirely about the operations of the CIA in Australia. There was very little mention of possible operations by other intelligence services from other nations. Lip service was paid to the proposition that these operations might be going on, but nothing was said about them. The debate has been used as a left wing device to denigrate Australian security services such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and as pan of the battle for leadership in the Australian Labor Party. It has done nothing for the security of this nation. 
-As the honourable member for Dawson says, nor has it done anything for the security of the Leader of the Opposition himself. The Leader of the Opposition was quoted by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  as saying that he knew of everything that was going on in Australiaall the activities of the CIA. Now he cynically says that the Parliament should oversee any foreign intelligence services. It is quite impossible for this to be done, in my opinion. I would have been much more impressed by this debate if more had been made by the Opposition speakers of the activities of the nations which may or may not be operating in Australia. The Leader of the Opposition said yesterday that he took away from his office after 11 November 1975 a large number of documents, including documents about the Petrov case, which would certainly substantiate the operation of the KGB in this country at that time. We have no reason to believe that similar operations are not being conducted now. I would like to quote from the introduction of a book on the KGB by  Mr John  Barron. It states: 
The KGB, or Committee for State Security, is the principal instrument through which the Soviet Union is ruled and Soviet foreign policy is executed. As such, it impinges on the lives of nearly 250 million individuals in the Soviet Union and countless others in nations affected by the Soviet Union's presence. 
It is interesting to note that in September 1971 the United Kingdom Government expelled a large number of Soviet diplomats from the United Kingdom. I believe 90 Soviet diplomats were expelled and 15 others who were out of the country at the time were prevented from returning. They were charged with engaging in operations against the security of that country. It is quite cynical for the Opposition to devote all its time in this debate to denigration of the security services of our major allies. Opposition speakers said nothing about the security services of other countries which are certainly working actively against Australia's security. It was quite cynical that this Parliament should have been used as it was as a vehicle for left wing propaganda. Obviously the Opposition has great hang-ups not only about overseas security services in Australia but also perhaps about our own security services. In March 1973 the then Attorney-General, now  Mr Justice  Murphy, led a raid on the ASIO headquarters in St Kilda in Melbourne. That was an absolute farce. The Leader of the Opposition, the then Prime Minister, called it a disastrous mistake. Of course it was a disastrous mistake. It cut off the flow of any information from overseas to our own security services for some time. It was a disastrous and stupid mistake. If we have parliamentary committees inquiring into the operation of overseas security services, of course our flow of information from other countries, which is vitally important to the security of Australia, will be cut off. 
-The United States does have a parliamentary committee. I would not like in this Parliament to criticise that parliamentary committee. I have some documents in front of me which in the interests of good relationships with the United States it would be unwise to read. Good relationships with the United States are most important. There is certainly a great deal of criticism of the congressional oversight of some of the operations of security services. I know of no congressional committee which is charged with overseeing the operations of foreign intelligence services in the United States. There is a committee charged with overseeing some of the operations of the CIA but not the operations of foreign intelligence agencies. I agree with the Minister for Defence, who said that this debate is quite unworthy of this Parliament and quite unworthy of the Opposition. I believe it is a disgraceful ploy to focus the Opposition's paranoic views on security against the United States and against the Central Intelligence Agency, and I very much regret that I have had to take part in such a cynical and ridiculous debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Those of us who live in northern Australia are becoming increasingly concerned about the very small number of patrol boats available for coastal surveillance, particularly as the present patrol boats are ageing and spending greater periods in maintenance. Can the Minister give an assurance that the program to build 1 5 new patrol boats will be commenced without delay? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He will be aware that I have a particular problem in my electorate. He recently advised me that a small community in my electorate can have television only if it is prepared to meet the full cost of installation-about $100,000-and the full cost of the operation of the television service thereafter. Can the Minister give any hope to isolated communities without television and radio, particularly in view of the large sums which have been spent in major cities to provide extra television channels, FM radio and community access radio services to people who already have a great deal? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns the growing number of countries which have made unilateral declarations of 200-mile fishery zones. This matter is of particular concern to my electorate, which not only embraces large parts of the Great Barrier Reef and the Gulf of Carpentaria but also has a mainland and island coastline. 
-I am delighted to be able to speak in this debate. I can speak of the countries with which this debate deals with some understanding, a certain amount of experience and knowledge, and a good deal of affection. I have spent many years of my life living and working and travelling in the area. I have lived in and travelled over much of Indonesia. I know Malaysia very well indeed, having spent a couple of years there. I have lived in Singapore and Sarawak and I have travelled widely in Sabah, from which country we have some distinguished visitors in the House tonight. I know Thailand well. The only one of these countries I do not know well is the Philippines, and I have been there on two or three occasions. It is 33 years since my first visit to the area and in the last three years I have been back to one or two of the countries, so I do have a good deal of understanding of them all. 
What is the aim of the Association of South East Asian Nations? It is to accelerate the region's economic growth, its development and progress, its cultural development, and to promote regional peace and stability. The ASEAN countries are our friends and neighbours and the more we can do to understand them the better. I do not agree with some of the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who was very critical of some of ASEAN 's actions. I know from personal experience that these nations think a great deal of Australia. They are our great friends, they understand us, and I hope that more and more Australians will understand them. A great many of the leaders and the people running these countries have been educated in Australia. They understand us and I think they too have a great deal of affection for us. This year ASEAN is ten years old, and its greatest credit is that it has survived for that time and is going on from strength to strength. Prior to this year many tensions existed and there was a lack of common interest throughout the area. Many regrettable disputes occurred prior to the formation of ASEAN, and it is only 1 1 years since 1 was very actively involved in one of those disputes. I am delighted that there are now no disputes between those countries and that two of them, Malaysia and Thailand, are co-operating very actively on their common border against a very difficult insurgency situation. In his statement the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
ASEAN leaders recognise that only through interdependence and self-reliance will they secure peace and stability in the region. And they have concerted their energies to establish the region as a force for stability and concord. 
I should like to stress the last few words of that statement: . . . a force for stability and concord. 
The Prime Minister went on to say: 
The ASEAN countries have firmly held that ASEAN is not, and should not be, a security organisation or a military pact. Increasingly their concern has been with the problems of economic development. 
I believe that it would be unwise for those countries to become involved in a military pact. They are much more likely to achieve success and stability in the region by economic strength. It is of vital importance to Australia that we have to our north a stable non-communist group of friendly countries with a reasonable standard of living. From my personal experience, I know that nothing breeds communism faster than empty bellies. So anything we can do to increase the standard of living and to help these people we should do. I am interested in the area not only because I know it well but also because my electorate is very close to it. Irian Jaya, West Irian, is only a few kilometres from the north-western corner of my electorate. It is much closer to my electorate than is the city of Brisbane. 
Before I came into the chamber, I looked at the map and noticed that we have two arcs of security to our north. The first of those arcs includes Papua New Guinea which is not a member of ASEAN. I hope that one day it will be. It could be useful for Papua New Guinea and certainly Indonesia would welcome its membership. The first arc also includes Indonesia. A secure neighbourhood with Indonesia and Papua New Guinea gives us our first line of security. The second arc or second line of security comprises the Philippines, the other Indonesian islands, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand. It is of vital interest that we keep these nations as stable noncommunist countries. 
Japan has been mentioned by a number of previous speakers and, whilst it is not a member of ASEAN it is obviously the biggest noncommunist power and participated in the postASEAN summit meeting at which our Prime Minister represented Australia. No discussion of ASEAN and Australia's role in the area can be complete without considering the already great and rapidly increasing influence of Japan in the area in both trade and aid. Japan is another country which I know well. I spent over four years of my life living in Japan. Those years of living in the area have given me a broad view of many of the problems. All the ASEAN countries need a bigger share of trade for their long term stability, as other speakers have said. They need it very badly indeed. They expressed to the Prime Minister their strong wish to increase their share of trade with Australia. I believe that we are obliged for our own security and stability in the future to give them a fair share of trade. ~ 
-We do have short term economic difficulties. I am glad that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  agrees with my previous remark because he has been a great influence on my thinking on this subject. 
-It was for the good. Of course, it is difficult when we have a high rate of unemployment to allow freer access to some of those areas of trade to which the honourable member for Wakefield referred- that is, clothing, textiles and footwear which are produced much more cheaply and much more efficiently by those countries. 
-It is the case, regrettably. Certainly they do it more cheaply and perhaps more efficiently.. I heard the honourable member for Wakefield the other day say that it is costing the consumer in Australia $600m a year for protection of our clothing, - textile and footwear industries. I know that we have very high tariff barriers but these tariff barriers and our protection are paid for by the exporter, by the primary producer and the miner. I do not have too much manufacturing industry in my electorate but I have a great many primary industries and have great and burgeoning mining industries. They are paying for the protection of people in the big cities. 
Australia's long term interests will be best served by carefully restructuring our heavily protected industries. It will have to be done carefully. The 25 per cent across the board tariff cut by the Labor Government was a disaster for these industries. The idea was right but the timing and method were wrong. It is a great pity that we did not do something about these tariff barriers when we had full employment; because we did not look at this problem and understand it then, we are having problems today. I would like to see the ASEAN countries increasing their share of the Australian market. In this regard some ideas have been mentioned. They include an annual ASEAN trade fair sponsored by Australia and the procedures which have been set up for consultation. My knowledge of the area makes me aware of the great importance which these countries place on consultation and consensus. They reach decisions by consensus and this is something which we must learn to do. It is not easy for Australians, who tend to be much more direct and sometimes brutal, to take part in discussions with the very polite people of these countries who aim for consensus rather than conflict. 
I presume that the honourable member for Dawson is talking about sugar. We are doing other things such as helping to set up five industrial projects in the region. This must be good. We have completed an important road in Thailand and there is another under construction. I have seen part of one of those roads. All these efforts to help will, I hope, secure our long term economic relationship with the ASEAN countries giving them much better access to our markets. Of course, we need access to their markets to sell the goods which we produce more efficiently and more cheaply than they do. 
Because it was decided that more trade was not possible at the moment it was decided instead to increase aid. I do not believe that aid is any long term substitute for trade. We should try to scale down our aid and to increase our trade as quickly as possible. It is very hard for people in my electorate where some industries are on their knees- the beef industry is in great trouble- to understand when they see that we are giving $90m extra to ASEAN countries in our Budget but nothing more to the beef industry. They ask questions which I find hard to answer. I know these countries well. I believe that they need our help, support and aid. I suppose it is because I am so aware of their problems that I say that we must increase our trade. Aid is no substitute for it. It is tragic that more was not done recently to help in this way. I support very strongly the efforts of the ASEAN countries to promote their own prosperity and stability and these efforts should have the support of every Australian. I said earlier that a stable, prosperous and secure ASEAN provides an important guarantee for Australia's future security. Therefore, I strongly support Australia's initiatives and commend them to the House and to Australia. 
During the last few days it has been interesting to note the changed attitude of the Press towards rural matters. There has been much wider and more sympathetic coverage, particularly by some newspapers, of the problems of rural Australia. For the last 5 years the media have concentrated on the noise and clamour of the cities, where most Australians live. As this is where their market is, I suppose that is understandable. Recently it seems that economic writers have become more aware of and concerned with the critical importance of Australia's balance of payments. They are acknowledging that it is the great exporting industries based on the farms and the mines which can solve the balance of payments problem. In these circumstances there is a growing realisation that there are major problems in rural Australia and this is being reflected in media comment. Rural Australia is not another country; it is a vitally important part of the nation. Unless it prospers, the cities will wither and die. Although a very small percentage of Australians work outside the towns and cities, they provide most of Australia's exports. The great metropolitan cities, the provincial cities and the country towns all depend for their existence on the hard work and prosperity of rural Australia and its small and very hard working and very efficient work force. 
Earlier this year I said that 75 per cent of the area of Australia was represented by only seven members in this House. Between us we represent a very large proportion of the wealth of the nation, the wealth which comes from the farms and the mines. Of course, there are other members who represent rural Australia; but there are just not enough of us, and for the last 5 years our voice has not been heard. It is not that the representatives of rural Australia have not been speaking. They have been speaking, loudly and clearly; but what they have been saying has been neglected by a city market oriented Press. Now there are indications of a new and dramatic awareness by the media. I have always thought that the sign of a great newspaper was that it could foresee and report trends and ideas perhaps in advance of public opinion. In the last few days a few newspapers have shown signs of greatness in their detailed reporting of and editorials on the problems of rural Australia. They have given understanding and sympathetic treatment to the major announcements of changes in policy affecting rural Australia which have been made in the last week by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other senior Ministers. These have been a great advance in Government thinking. Much of the credit for these announcements must go to the months of hard work by the Ministers concerned and by the back benchers who represent rural areas. They have been assisted in their efforts by the responsible rural organisations. 
However, there is one rural organisation which in my view has been irresponsible in its public statements, and that is the Cattlemen's Union of Australia. I agree with many of the aims of the Cattlemen's Union, but I disapprove very strongly of its methods. It has stooped to personal attacks and denigrations, particularly of honourable members representing rural areas in Queensland. One of its main targets has been my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige). 
-No one has worked harder for the cattle industry than the honourable member for Capricornia, as the honourable member for Wimmera said. In my electorate the executives of the Cattlemen's Union are my friends. I rang the Secretary tonight and told ner what I was going to do. 
-She said: 'Good on you; go ahead'. In my area the executives of the Cattlemen's Union have been responsible and moderate. It is a greaty pity that their colleagues in Canberra and in other areas of Australia have not shared their responsible views. 
-They do, unfortunately. Some executives of the Cattlemen's Union have resorted to threat and have attempted to blackmail members of Parliament by attacking them personally as not doing their jobs and by threatening to join Australia s latest and most formless political party, the Australian Democrats, in an attempt to take away our seats. 
The Cattlemen's Union is claiming credit for recent announcements made by the Government. It claims that the visit of its executives to the Prime Minister last Thursday was responsible for recent Government initiatives. This is just not true. After discussions in the Government's joint party room on Wednesday of last week the Prime Minster made a public statement in the House foreshadowing the announcements which are now appearing. This was before members of the Cattlemen's Union had seen the Prime Minister. The most significant point made by the Prime Minister was the first public recognition by the Government that it is the exporters, the primary producers and the miners who bear most of the costs of protection for manufacturing industry. The Prime Minister foreshadowed a policy of redressing the balance by compensating rural industries for the heavy costs caused by the high level of protection for Australian manufacturing industries. I hope that my city colleagues will see any assistance which is given to rural Australia in that light and will join the growing numbers - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware that as a result of his visit to my electorate in March this year the Australian Telecommunications Commission has been investigating the connection of outpost radios to the telephone service through base stations of the Royal Flying Doctor Service. Can the Minister advise the progress of these investigations? Can he say why such a relatively simple investigation has taken so long to complete? 
-In the last few weeks two very important policy statements have been made in this House. The first one, which was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 7 September, said that rural industries should be compensated for the cost of high protection afforded to manufacturing industry. The second one, which was made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on 22 September, said that people in remote and isolated areas have particular problems which are different from those of people in other parts of the continent and that in order to ensure that there is no critical disadvantage in this situation the Government is examining those government imposts which prejudice people in isolated areas to see whether they can be adjusted to bring those people into more relative equality with the position of people in urban Australia. 
The recent rise in fuel prices, with which I am in full agreement, has placed the people in isolated areas in a very difficult position. I shall quote some prices. Last week the price of super grade petrol was 19c a litre. The lowest discount price in Sydney was 14.5c a litre. The price of petrol in Burketown, which is in my electorate, was 29c a litre-twice the price of the discounted petrol in Sydney. This discount petrol is paid for by the sweat of people in isolated areas. In my electorate there is no alternative means of transport other than that which uses petrol or diesel fuel. We do not have railways, except for the very few miles of railway line in the southeastern corner. The roads are bad. Everything must go in an out by vehicle. Fuel price rises mean that all prices rise in the whole area. During the wet season much of the area is cut off for five months. One can imagine the cost of stocking up on all commodities for that period. 
In 1965 a petroleum products subsidy scheme was introduced. It was abolished by the Labor Government in August 1974 in one of the many actions that it took to disadvantage people in rural areas. 

 Mr Mc Veigh;By whom was it abolished? 
-The Labor Government, whose members were responsible for the disgraceful affair that occurred just before I began to speak. We said when we came into power that there should be justice for all. It is not justice for all that people in Sydney should be able to buy petrol for 14.5c a litre and people in Burketown should have to pay 29c a litre for it. I believe that something should be done about that. I recommend that the petroleum products subsidy scheme, which is still on the statute book, be used. I believe that we should raise a small tax on petrol and distillate to help to pay for the price differential. I am informed that a tax of half a cent a litre would raise $100m a year. A tax of a quarter of a cent a litre would raise $50m a year. This amount could be used to reduce the price differential in the isolated inland areas of Australia. 
The previous scheme did not completely equalise petrol prices. Prices varied from between 3.3c and 5c a gallon in those days. I believe that nowhere in Australia should the price of petrol and distillate be more than lc a litre above the city prices. This would cost about $50m a year, which would be covered by a tax of a quarter of a cent a litre. There is no public transport in my electorate, except for a very short length of railway track, but it is interesting to note that buses and trams in the cities of Australia are covered by the taxpayers for a deficit each year of $90m. The deficits of the railways of Australia are $500m a year. I make a plea for understanding and justice for rural Australians. I think it is essential that those areas which have no alternative transport be helped so that they do not collapse under fuel price rises. If we are to pay more than lip service to decentralisation we must do something about this matter. I appeal to all the city members of parliament, whose electorates have so much when the people in my electorate have so little, to support a fuel equalisation scheme. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. It being 11 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned till 2.15 p.m. tomorrow. 
I do not intend to spend any time on the erratic, inaccurate and scurrilous speech made by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson). 
-It is not worth it. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has made one point quite clear. The honourable member for Hughes raised so many inaccuracies and rumours that it is not worth talking about his speech. He did mention one matter, though, which I would like to follow up. He said that the Government was not doing anything to help small business. I shall talk briefly about small business in Australia. 
-I have a sufficient audience. Thriving successful small businesses are the real key to economic revival. There are 190,000 small businesses in Australia which is more than 90 per cent of all enterprises. Those enterprises with less than 100 employees employ 1,280,000 people or more than 40 per cent of all people employed. If every small business could employ just two more people we would solve our unemployment problem completely. In fact, we would have a considerable shortage of labour. Small business is big business. Our free enterprise society is made up of flourishing small businesses. It is very pleasing to see how much small business is doing to help itself. It is getting together and organising and expressing points of view very clearly. The Small Business and Self-employed Association of Australia is setting up branches in all States. I would like to see the Association extend to provincial cities and country towns where there are large numbers of small businesses and where practically everyone is employed by small business. 
Small business organisations are proving to be a strong voice in support of small business. I think they should be given every encouragement. Both the Commonwealth Government and State governments need a strong small business organisation to which they can speak. On the Commonwealth scene in Canberra we have the National Small Business Bureau. Each State has set up organisations of various sorts. In Queensland there is a Division of Small Business within the Department of Industrial Development. I think it is worth while looking briefly at what is happening in one or two other countries. In the United Kingdom there has been an alarming tendency for a small number of large corporations to control a greater proportion of production because it is far easier for government and unions to influence a small number of large corporations than it is to influence a larger number of small businesses. I shall read the words of  Mr Paul  Johnson, the former editor of the British Labour Weekly  The New Statesman  who recently resigned his long-standing membership of the British Labour Party. I wish the honourable member for Hughes had remained in the House to hear these words.  Mr Johnson  stated:  . . . it is the essence of corporation that the units must be large. And it is the essence of modern union bureaucracy that workers are easier to control in big factories, where the organised military clique rules all. So Labor ministers and  union  bosses are united in their upending of Labor's old posture. Both loathe the small business and the little workshop and penalise them viciously; both exhibit a positive hatred for the self-employed, who cannot be unionised or corporated at all. 
This is where the Labor Party is heading. It has already embraced corporatism, which ultimately must mean the end of parliamentary democracy. 
I say again that I wish the honourable member for Hughes was here to listen to those words and apply them to his party in Australia. It is, of course, far easier for Government and unions to influence a small number of large corporations. 
There is no doubt that small business is the best guarantee against an authoritarian corporate state. 
This Government has taken many actions to help small business. The major thing we have done is reduce inflation from over 17 per cent during Labor's regime to 10 per cent or less now. That is the best thing we nave done to help business in Australia. During the last election campaign the coalition parties published a fivepoint program which would help restore the small business sector to economic health. Those points were, firstly, to introduce a new 40 per cent investment allowance in order to encourage small business investment. That, of course, has been done. Secondly, we said we would implement the Mathews Committee recommendations on company taxation, beginning with a stock valuation adjustment and boosting cash flows and restoring confidence. That has been done. The third point was the introduction of new tax reforms designed to meet the problems of small business. I could spend 10 minutes speaking on that subject. A great deal has been done in this regard and the new tax scales to be introduced early next year will be a major concession to small business. Fourthly, we said we would undertake new policies to ensure the greater availability of finance for the expansion and development programs of small business. I shall deal with that matter in a few minutes. The final point was to initiate new programs in areas of education and counselling to assist in the management of small business. This is happening both in the Commonwealth and in the States. I think it is more properly a job for the States to do. They are on the spot. They know their local problems. 
I shall deal with the fourth point- the greater availability of finance for the expansion and development of small business. There is no doubt that banks and finance organisations more readily lend to big business than to small business. I was once a moderately successful small businessman. I have had considerable experience in this field. Banks find it much easier and safer to lend to established big businesses. Small business needs the provision of long-term finance at reasonable rates of interest. In my electorate I was speaking a couple of days ago to a man running a general engineering firm which employs 100 people. He needs money for ca rry-on finance and for expansion. The best he can get from his bank and the longest term is five years at 1 1 per cent. That is not good enough for a business which is expanding.  His  weekly payroll is approximately $18,000 to $20,000 a week.  His  payroll tax and workers' compensation amount to $2,000 a week. He needs to generate $20,000 business per week to pay for that. Fortunately the Queensland Government in its last Budget made a major reduction in payroll tax and in workers' compensation. 
Another major problem is sales tax in isolated areas. Sales tax is also paid on freight rates. I think this is quite wrong. I have written to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  several times on this matter as have other honourable members. I hope that this inequity will be put right. The Government has formed a task force on small business financing to study the problems and make recommendations. I understand the task force has reported and the Government will announce it s decision very soon. There would seem to be a variety of ways in which small business can be helped and revitalised. We need to reduce interest rates to enable a business to get established and to expand. That is happening now; it started a month or so ago. We have to ease the burden of provisional tax during the time when a small business is becoming established. We should reconsider the provision of company tax to help small business. A further easing of the Division 7 tax provision would be a very helpful move. 
It is suggested that a statutory small business authority, free of political and bureaucratic interference and control and capable of contributing to the arbitration processes on behalf of small business should be established. The need for such an authority has become increasingly clear in recent Conciliation and Arbitration Commission proceedings. There needs to be a partnership between government and finance institutions and any proposed small business authority to create, with an existing financial framework, a small business development finance service to ensure long term credit. Someone has suggested to me that a small business insurance corporation with government support to organise loans with insurance as a colateral should be established, to work through existing insurance companies, with loans for, say, 10 to 20 years. It has been suggested that repayments under this scheme would be made every five years on a quarterly basis. 
One other small point which is bothering small business a great deal and about which many complaints are being received by all honourable members concerns the burden of government surveys on small business, particularly from the Bureau of Statistics and from other government departments. This is expensive, time wasting and of very little value to small business. I think this procedure should be reviewed. I believe that the Federal Government should concentrate on small business matters of a national nature. All other matters are best handled by the States. I hope that when the Government makes its announcement on small business financing shortly we will have some very happy news for small businesses in Australia. 
-I want to speak about two aspects of these estimates. I will refer first to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, Division 202, which deals with the Industries Assistance Commission and, secondly, to the Department of Industry and Commerce, Division 380, which deals with structural adjustment assistance- for expenditure to assist the adjustment of industry to the effects of tariff and similar changes. Last year, 1976-77, $636,801 was spent on this item. This year, 1977-78, provision is made for $97,000-a reduction of more than half a million dollars. Both these expenditures are concerned with tariff policy. I do not want to join in a debate on free trade and protection. I think this is something we have to get in perspective. I would be delighted if later we could have a proper debate on this important subject. I commend to all members the Stan Kelly Inaugural Lecture by  Sir John  Crawford entitled: 'Some Problems of Freer Trade- Australia Under Pressure'. 
Tariffs are taxes on imports. They are used to protect industry. They have an interaction with all aspects of the economy. There is no argument that there must be a degree of protection to protect employment, to ensure that we maintain an industrial base and for defence purposes in particular industries. There must be a greater recognition of market forces. The real issue is how much protection is necessary in Australia. Recently we have maintained and in some cases increased tariffs and quotas in the motor industry, the textile industry and other industries. For many reasons these industries cannot compete with overseas goods. In the motor industry we have five manufacturers and far too many models. They are not good enough. Given a choice, most Australians would buy imported motor cars. The protection for each employee in the motor industry is equivalent to $4,000 a year. In the textile industry the same case generally applies. I do not have recent figures but in 1 968 there was a subsidy equivalent of $2,046 per worker when the wages were on average $1,860 per worker a year. This is just not sensible in the long term. Of course there must be short-term protection in times of high unemployment. But we cannot insulate ourselves from overseas competition. Tariffs will not guarantee survival of inefficient or uncompetitive industries. We must plan now for long-term structural change, but the reduction in expenditure of more than half a million dollars for structural change is rather difficult to explain. It is also difficult to define what is long term and short term. Perhaps a proper debate might settle this issue. 
There are various estimates of the cost of tariffs. They range from $4,000m to $6,000m a year. I will settle for the centre- about $5,000m a year. Who pays for this? It is the exporter who pays. He has to compete on world markets. He cannot put up his prices every time his costs rise, but the protected industries can put up their prices whenever they wish. They add to the cost of living. They make high profits between high tariff walls. It is interesting to look at our exports for last year, 1976-77. The primary exports from the farms and mines accounted for 76. 16 per cent of all our exports. Manufacturing exports accounted for 20.78 per cent. Therefore it is the primary industries, the mines and the farms, which generally are very efficient, which pay for the less efficient manufacturing industries. Is this the best use of our great natural resources in this nation? Our primary exports last year were as follows: Unprocessed products accounted for 58.67 per cent and processed products for 17.52 per cent. Is this the best way to export our great natural resources? Surely we should spend more of our efforts in manufacturing and processing our resources. It is necessary for long term restructuring to make best use of our unique natural resources plus our skilled and intelligent work force. We are becoming an increasingly sophisticated nation. We will have less and less use in the years to come for skilled labour. We should be planning for this now. We should be designing policies for long-term restructuring. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 7 September said that rural industries should be compensated for the cost of high protection afforded to manufacturers. This is a policy which I believe should be carried out now consciously and properly. It is estimated- the figures are difficult to equate here- that tariff costs each beef producer $8 per beast. This is caused by increased costs for the producer by way of protection. Honourable members might say that we subsidise rural industry. The biggest and most efficient export industries have very small subsidies. Most rural assistance is by way of repayable loans. It is interesting that the estimate of subsidies for the beef industry last year was $ 1 10m, which is about $4 per head of cattle. The tariff cost was $23 1 m or $8 per head. Subsidies to rural industries are public knowledge. They are obvious through the Budget, but tariff protection for manufacturing industries is hidden and secretive. Most people have no idea how much protection costs them. There has been a suggestion that we should replace tariffs for manufacturing industries with subsidies. It is a nice thought, but I believe it is quite impossible. If we subsidised manufacturing industries it would cost us about 20 per cent of all government spending and would quadruple the deficit. 
I spoke earlier about compensation for the exporting industries to correct the price distortions caused by tariffs and to help the efficient use of our resources. This could take many forms. In my vast electorate of Leichhardt there are many ways in which it could be done. It could be done by direct compensation in budgetary terms. There will be great cries of protest at this suggestion, but there will not be great cries of protest at the $4,000 per worker in the motor car industry. 
-It was $4,000. Perhaps we should do something about petrol price equalisation and the sharing of energy resources. I will speak on that matter at another time. Perhaps we should remove freight costs from sales tax calculations. Anyone in my electorate who buys any item pays sales tax on the freight. The distance might be 2,000 miles. We should spend some money on roads. Most of my electorate has very bad roads. There are very few railways. There are no shipping services for passengers. Most of the electorate does not have telephone services and cannot receive commercial radio or television. Many of the people in my electorate cannot listen to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. No one in my electorate tonight can listen to my speech. 
-I sometimes think it is a very good thing that people in my electorate cannot listen to some of the inane speeches in this Parliament. 
-I said some of them. The honourable member for Lang is excepted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member will direct his remarks to the Chair. 

 -Certainly, Mr Deputy Chairman. Perhaps we could have more assistance for education. The people in my electorate are disadvantaged by being, sometimes, many hundreds of miles from the nearest education establishment. We get very little recompense for that. There was a lot of discussion today about education. No one talked about isolated children, hundreds of miles from schools. No one in the Opposition talked about that. Honourable members opposite talked about the split-up between government and private schools. They did not worry about people in isolated areas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is getting a little away from the estimates before the Chair. I would ask him to confine his remarks to those estimates. 
-I return to the recompense to rural areas for tariffs. Another point I might make is in regard to health care. Any one in the cities can get immediate health care by calling a taxi or an ambulance. In my electorate the people are often hundreds of miles from any doctors or hospitals. They should be recompensed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I do not wish to restrain the honourable member too much, but we are discussing the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity. I ask the honourable member to confine his remarks to those departments. 
I was discussing structural recompense, included in the Budget. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will be aware that Mornington Island in the Gulf of Carpentaria was devastated by Cyclone Ted in December 1976. Can the Minister say what action the Commonwealth is taking to assist in the restoration and rebuilding of Mornington Island? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker I would like you to pass on my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his re-election and I would like personally to congratulate you on your election as  Chairman  of Committees. 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. Before the general election, the Government undertook to provide assistance towards air fares and accommodation for people in isolated areas who require specialist medical attention. Can the Minister give any information as to progress in this matter? 
-I rise to speak today as the representative elected by the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island to speak for them on this very important matter. I have no brief to speak for the Commonwealth or State Government or the Uniting Church. I must say that I was surprised at the recent actions of the Queensland Government concerning the proposed takeover. It appears that it acted without warning and without consultation with the people of the communities of either Aurukun or Mornington Island. I believe that the major question is: What do the people themselves want? If we claim to be a democracy, I believe that they must be given an opportunity to state freely their views and wishes. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has explained briefly the policies of assimilation and self-management. The policy of the State Government of assimilation may well be necessary for some of the communities close to the larger towns. However, I can see great difficulty in any assimilation in places such as Mornington Island- an island in the Gulf of Carpentaria, many miles from any large centre. The same applies to Aurukun at present. As the Minister said, the Commonwealth Government and the Church welcome self-choice, selfmanagement, self-determination and, hopefully, eventually self-sufficiency. Two main groups of people plus some mainland people live on Mornington Island- about 680 people altogether. They are a strong, independent people. I believe that it is a well administered community. It has great housing problems because most of the houses were destroyed by a cyclone at the beginning of last year. There is no doubt that those people are very certain about what they want. I shall come to that later. 
At Aurukun there are about 750 people- 400 to 500 people living in the central community and 250 to 270 people living in eight decentralised communities. All these decentralised communities are in clan or tribal groups and on clan or tribal land which is part of the reserve set aside by the Queensland Government for the people of the area. The decentralised groups are doing very well. I believe that they show a great example of self-management. They have moved from the somewhat difficult atmosphere of the main settlement- it is difficult for many reasonsand they have been forced to do things for themselves and to make decisions for themselves. An old friend of mine, Bob Massey, who is the leader of the community at a place called Ti Tree, earlier this year flew to Weipa and opened an account at the Weipa store. Now he has supplies flown in to his decentralised community whenever necessary, at a much cheaper price than they are available at the main Aurukun store. That seems to me to be a very good example of self-management and selfsufficiency. 
I understand that the State Government does not approve of decentralisation. The people of Aurukun, particularly those in the decentralised communities, are very afraid that if the State Government takes over they will be moved back into the main community. I last visited Mornington Island and Aurukun in December 1977- three months ago. I found on Mornington Island a very strong support for the Church remaining to administer them, as it is doing at the moment. Just before I visited Aurukun a survey was taken- I think it was in November 1977- and the community council wrote to the Church stating very firmly, as the Minister quoted, that it wished the Church to remain in control. I found some support for a State takeover amongst the people in the main Aurukun community; but the great majority of the people, particularly those in the decentralised communities, wanted the Church to remain in control. 
I wish to quote from a resolution of the Church Synod, which was sent to the State Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement on 30 December 1977. Two paragraphs of that resolution read: 
The Uniting Church in Australia would abide by the expressed will of the Aurukun community determined by a means yet to be devised but which can be seen to guarantee free expression by the community. 
The lights of those groups desiring to live on and work their tribal lands within the boundaries of the reserve be recognised and that the Government accept the responsibility of maintaining essential services such as medical, education, communication and supplies in consultation with the groups. 
I believe that these people must be given the time and the opportunity to make their own decision, free from external pressure and that, as the Church stated in its communication to the Minister on 30 December from which I just quoted, it should be 'determined by a means yet to be devised but which can be seen to guarantee free expression by the community'. I would welcome that. I believe that it would be impossible to achieve that aim by 31 March, when the State intends to take over the administration of these two reserves. These people need time to sit down and talk to each other. The people of the decentralised areas need to be able to discuss this so that we can have a free and genuine expression of what they want. There is a tendency, if they are asked by someone they do not know very well, for these people to give the answer which they think that person will like. We must be sure that this does not happen in this expression of opinion. As the Minister said, it may be necessary for the Commonwealth to continue especially to fund the Uniting Church so that it may continue the administration until the people are able to express their wishes. When I was there last November the impression I gained was that the Church perhaps would have been quite happy to give up the very difficult job of administering these two communities, provided the people wanted them to go. At that time the people indicated that they did not want the Church to go and the Church communicated that decision to the State Government. 
I believe that we have a responsibility to these people to give them every opportunity to make their own decisions. Whatever those decisions are, the State Government, the Commonwealth Government and the Uniting Church should accept the wishes of the people. It may well be that the Church is not the best organisation to administer these communities. They have problems but of course there are problems in the communities administered by the State. In my electorate there are 13 Aboriginal communities and 14 inhabited islands in the Torres Strait so I have a fair breadth of experience of the many problems in the area. I plan this weekend, provided I have permission of the councils of the communities, to visit both Aurukun and Mornington Island and to let the people tell me their views themselves. I will convey their expression of opinion to the Minister. I hope I will have an opportunity to meet the representatives who are coming to Canberra in the next couple of days. I reiterate that I believe that we have a very grave responsibility to make sure that the final decision is acceptable to the people. I trust that the Minister will make that possible by whatever action is necessary. 
I rise to speak on this Bill with some regret because I believe that in many ways it should have been unnecessary. I do not propose to answer the rather rambling and disjointed speech of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I believe that he and the Opposition do not understand the purpose of this Bill. I will leave it to other Government speakers to answer the specific points raised by the honourable member. I want to talk about the people at whom this Bill is aimed. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said, this Bill came about because the Queensland Government moved to take over the administration and management of two communities, Aurukun and Mornington Island. Both of those communities are in my electorate, so I have a very special interest in this Bill. 
On 17 and 18 March my wife and I visited both Aurukun and Mornington. That was only a couple of days after the visit of the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders' Advancement, who informed the communities that the State would be taking over their administration and management. I went to find out for myself what the people of those communities wanted. My wife and I spoke to several hundred people, many of whom we knew from previous visits. I was surprised at the unanimous expression of the people's wishes. I expected that there would be a division among the people, particularly at Aurukun as there has been often on other issues, but there was no doubt of the overwhelming support for the Uniting Church in Australia to remain in the management of those communities. Therefore I had no alternative but to support the wishes of those people. At both Aurukun and Mornington we talked to many of the people individually. We went to a public meeting at which I was asked to help and I gave my word that I would support the people of the communities. That was a very difficult decision for me to make because it put me in direct conflict with the Queensland Government and with many members of my Party in my electorate and throughout Queensland. I have twice been elected to represent all the people in my electorate of Leichhardt. I was not elected necessarily to represent the view of the Queensland Government in this Parliament, although on many occasions I have agreed with the views of that Government. On this occasion I do not agree because I believe that my duty is to support the wishes of my constituents, 1,600 of whom live in these two communities. 
I would like to quote from the Federal National Country Party of Australia platform. The first two planks of the platform on Aboriginals state: 
The National Country Party of Australia recognises the fundamental right of Aboriginals to choose whether they wish to retain their identity and traditional way of life, or to adopt in whole or in part a European life style. 
The Party recognises the different life styles of the Aboriginal people and the need for flexible policies to meet varying needs. 
I believe that this Bill and the intent of this Bill is exactly what those two planks of the platform of the Party which I represent in this Parliament are all about. 
There are more than 20,000 Aboriginal and Island people in my electorate, about one in six of the whole population. Many of them live in cities and towns but 13 Aboriginal communities live on reserves and there are 14 inhabited islands in the Torres Strait. I believe that I have a duty to all those people, as their elected representative in this place. As the Minister has explained, this Bill gives the people in the communities the right to choose. I think it is worthwhile for me to restate a short part of the Minister's second reading speech. On page 5 of the speech he said: 
The Commonwealth is not enlarging its own powers; it is not in any sense taking over the reserves itself, but is only allowing the communities themselves to exercise local responsibility. The Commonwealth has not in any other State taken over the reserves established under State law but applies its policies of self-management to communities living on those reserves. 
That is what this Bill does. There is no compulsion; each community will be able to make a choice. I do not mind who administers or manages all the communities in my electorate- the Church, the State or the people themselves. That is their choice and this Bill gives them the right to make that choice. They may wish to remain as they are now under State control; they may wish self-management; or they may wish, as I believe they will at Aurukun and Mornington, for the Church to remain and share the management of those two communities. As I said in quoting from the Minister's speech, there is no question of the Commonwealth stepping in to take over the management. 
Had I been asked about 18 months ago, I would have supported a State takeover of those reserves. At that stage they were both in a very difficult position. They had had a number of managers over a short period and they were not well run. Now they are much better managed. They are not perfect and I think very few reserves in the whole of my electorate are per.fectly managed. Many improvements in the management of Aurukun and Mornington have been made in the last 12 months. I think it needs to be realised that there is an infinite variety of communities throughout Queensland, and particularly in my electorate. They differ in history, racial composition, their degree of integration into the European community and in language. Some of them still speak their own language; some of them still retain their tribal and clan traditions; some of them have been partially and some almost wholly integrated into the 
European lifestyle. Therefore it is not possible to say: 'This is the right policy for all communities '. 
I believe that the Queensland Government through its Department of Aboriginal and Islanders' Advancement has in many ways done an admirable job in looking after the interests of Aboriginals and Islanders in the past. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  told me this afternoon that there were some very bad slum areas outside a number of towns in his electorate. By joint State-Commonwealth effort these have all been removed and the people have been housed in decent conditions. That is the sort of thing that has been occurring. 
Times and conditions are changing very rapidly and the State recognised this. It set up the Aboriginal and Island Commission with four members. It is to report by 30 June this year on the State Aboriginal and Islanders' Acts under which the reserves and Island communities are at present governed. I cannot understand why the decision to take over Aurukun and Mornington Island had to be taken now. Surely it would have been better to wait for the Commission's report because, for instance, if the Commission had recommended self-management, I am sure the State would have accepted it; but I believe that the precipitate action taken by the State without any immediate prior consultation was a mistake. 
I have said that there are many differences in the communities in my electorate. Staying in my house in Cairns at the moment on a holiday is  Mr Alan  Hockey, the Manager of Doomadgee Mission, which is outside Burketown near the Northern Territory border but still within my electorate. He and his wife have been at Doomadgee for 27 years and I suppose they know as much about this problem as anyone else in the business. When they went to Doomadgee the people had already lost their language, their tribal traditions and customs. The reserve is not on tribal land but is on land purchased by the Church for the purpose of the community. Alan Hockey told me that, in all the years that he had been dealing with the State, he felt that the Queensland Government had dealt with him and his community- his words were-'with compassion and justice'. Obviously this is not the experience of the Uniting Church at Aurukun and Mornington particularly in recent years. There are many reasons for this. I do not believe that I should go into them now. 
I would like to speak very briefly about the people at Mornington and Aurukun to whom this Bill mainly applies. Of course it applies to all communities and island communities in 
Queensland but particularly to Aurukun and Mornington. I believe those people have already made their choice as to what they want for their future. Mornington is an island in the south- eastern part of the Gulf of Carpentaria. It is a very isolated area and difficult to reach. Some 680 people live there. Aurukun is about 60 miles south of Weipa and is on the north-western coast of Cape York Peninsula. About 750 people live there. The reserve set aside for them by the Queensland Government covers 750,000 hectares or 1.85 million acres. It is a very large area. In both of these areas the people speak their own languages. One language is spoken at Aurukun and two languages at Mornington. The people retain their tribal and clan structure; they retain their tribal and clan traditions. Both groups are living on traditional clan and tribal land. There has been a great resurgence of interest in Aboriginal heritage in these two communities. I think this can only be a very good thing. 
There has been a lot of talk about the effects of alcohol in Aboriginal communities. No doubt there are many problems not only in communities run by the church but in all communities whether State run or church run. Alcohol is allowed at Mornington Island. The people there have had problems in the past. Under a very effective and recently appointed manager they have solved most of their problems. Aurukun does not have a canteen. It is dry by the wish of the people. Liquor does come in there. It is often brought in by unscrupulous Europeans. However that problem is under control; the situation is much better than it was in the past. The problem there is not worse than it is in many other communities. 
I said that the Aurukun reserve comprised 1.85 million acres- a very large area. Until the last few years most of the people spent their time living in a small village community crowded together. In the last two or three years they have started to move out to what are called outstations in a decentalised plan. At the moment 270 people are living out in clan groups in seven decentralised outstations. These outstations are not humpies on the banks of a creek. They are 
E roper small settlements with air strips, radios, buildings with tin roofs and stores. I believe that the stores in each of these outstations are making a profit, which is not very usual. 
There is no doubt that the health of the people on these outstations is much better than the health of the people in the main community. They are eating better food. They have beef, fish and duck. Vegetables are growing in the area. The health sisters tell me that there is no great problem in the health of the people at these outstations. The health of the children, particularly those in the main communities, is a much greater problem. Doomadgee, Mornington and Aurukun are three very different areas. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  also told me today that Cherbourg, one of the communities in his area, will almost certainly choose to remain under State management. This Bill will allow it to do so. The Bill is giving the community a freedom of choice. 
I think two points were made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who led for the Opposition. First of all, the general Queensland law will apply in these reserves as it does anywhere else in Queensland. Queensland will be responsible for health, education and law and order just as it is anywhere else. Questions have been asked tonight about acquisition of land. No part of this Bill allows the Government to acquire land. This can be done only under the Lands Acquisition Act. A provision for acquiring land is not contained in this Bill. I understand that the Australian Broadcasting Commission mid-day news announced that the Bill included plans to acquire land. This has caused a good deal of concern in my electorate and I have had a large number of telephone calls this afternoon. At the moment the land will remain Crown land vested in Queensland. It is very difficult to change that situation. Other speakers, better versed in the law than I am, might be able to add to that. 
This Bill will almost certainly be passed through this House and the other place this week. There is little doubt that it will be passed by both Houses. I appeal to the Government to delay the proclamation of this Bill to allow further discussions with the Queensland Government. This will be very necessary to allow for an orderly and peaceful period for the people of Aurukun and Mornington. 
-This will allow for discussion with the people themselves. A great deal of discussion with the people has already taken place, as has been mentioned tonight. I believe that other communities will have to make up their minds about this matter. I think we should have discussions with the Queensland Government to ensure that any communities wishing to come within the provisions of the Bill should be able to do so in as orderly a manner as possible. I am concerned that the people of the Aboriginal island communities should not suffer because of political arguments between governments. This Bill gives them the power to choose their futurethe future management of their communities. In carrying out the promise that I made to the people of Aurukun and Mornington, I support the provisions of this Bill. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware of the so-called bluetongue line which prevents the free movement of cattle south of that line, with disastrous effects on the many cattle producers north of that line and in my electorate. I understand that the Queensland Government has made a submission to the Federal Government concerning compensation measures for the producers who are facing ruin as a result of the bluetongue problem. Can the Minister give any information on the progress of the Government's consideration of this very important matter? 
-I ask the Minister for Health: Is the Government concerned about allegations of people fraudulently obtaining social security and unemployment benefits? Has the Government taken those allegations seriously and is any action being taken to investigate ways and means of protecting taxpayers generally from abuses of the social security system? 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of reports that the next Japanese import quota for Australian beef is likely to be announced soon? Can the Minister indicate the Australian beef industry's prospects in this important market? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. What action has the Government taken to make known Australia's concern about the proposed counter-cyclical beef import arrangements in the United States? 
I am told that I have only a few minutes in which to speak on this very important subject. It is very important to me because the Torres Strait Islands are entirely within my electorate. I would like to compliment the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on a very sensible and practical solution. This has been a very difficult problem for a number of years. To have reached such a satisfactory solution reflects great credit on all concerned. I would also like to compliment the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  for a very balanced and reasonable speech. He knows a lot about the subject and he has put the position very well indeed. It is very good to see such a bi-partisan approach to such a complex national and international problem. 
I wish to make one or two points about it: The chairmen of the Island groups have been kept informed of what has been going on. I was in the Torres Strait area last Thursday with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  The Island chairmen were briefed, in confidence, on this whole detailed proposal. They were shown the maps and they asked many questions. The briefing continued for a number of hours and they expressed a great deal of satisfaction with the agreement. The night before, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  had briefed the 
Premier of Queensland and the members of the Queensland Government. They also expressed, both in private and in public, satisfaction with the agreement. I think that this is a very good result in what could have been an extremely difficult problem. 
We have achieved all we wanted to achieve to protect the Islanders, the Islands and the Islanders' traditional way of life. We have also protected the traditional use by the coastal Papuans of that area. The people have been protected and the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he visited the Torres Strait Islands in November 1976 has been kept. The protected zone is unique hi international agreements. It is a splendid way of solving a very difficult problem, a way which I have been recommending, along with many other people, for some time. It will work well because the Papuans, the Islanders, the national governments and the provincial governments concerned agree on that problem. 
There was a very great problem in my mind and in the minds of a number of other people about the sea-bed line. The fear was expressed that a sea-bed line would cause the three nothern islands of Saibai, Dauan, and Boigu to be in an enclave in Papua New Guinea waters. As the  chairman  of the Torres Strait Islands Advisory Council,  Mr Getano  Lui, said in very pithy language, he was frightened that the sea-bed line would rise to the surface of the water and become a defacto border. Because the Australian fisheries jurisdiction has been extended around the three northern islands and the waters around those islands are Australian fisheries waters, it is not possible for that line to rise to the surface and to become a de facto border. That is one of the most significant objectives obtained by the negotiators. 
The word 'window' has been used to indicate the protection that has been given to those three northern islands. It gives them a window on to the rest of the Torres Strait. They are not cut off. They remain part of the Torres Strait, as they always have been. I wish to deal very briefly with the three islands of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa. I am satisfied that they were not originally proclaimed to be part of Queensland. The Islanders have always shared those islands with the Papuans. They are uninhabited and have very limited resources. The fart that they are within the protected zone answers many of the worries expressed by previous speakers in the debate. Because they are in the protected zone, the Torres Strait Islanders can use them as they have always done traditionally. That is of very great importance. They are not important islands. I do not believe that we have any claim to them. The fact that the Torres Strait Islanders can continue to use them in the traditional way is very important. 
Finally I would like to compliment the Foreign Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Ebia  Olewale. He and I are in a unique position in that we share an electoral boundary in the Torres Strait. He, like myself, has been very concerned with this problem. But I am delighted to say that he has taken a national approach to the problem and not a parochial approach, although I imagine that he has been under as much pressure from his constituents in the area as I have been from mine. So I would like to thank him publicly in the House for his statesmanlike part in these negotiations. I believe that a very good solution has been reached. I hope that at a later time we will have more time to debate this very important problem. I believe that this is the first time a member of this Parliament can say that this problem is in his electorate. This does not happen very often. I would be very grateful for the chance to speak at greater length on it at another time. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister and his officials, one of whom is sitting in the chamber, for the excellent job they have done under very difficult conditions. 
-This matter of public importance concerns: 
The urgency of full Australian support for international disarmament and arms control . . . 
I would think that the speeches made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  summarised between them very well indeed just how much Australia is doing in this field. A great deal is being done. This debate could have been brought on earner; it could have come on yesterday but for the fact that the Opposition brought on a censure motion which delayed it. However, Government activity has been proceeding for some time. On 25 November 1977 the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  issued a Press statement on nuclear arms control. 
There was no response by the Opposition in the election campaign to that Press release by the Minister. I shall quote one small part of it: 
On his instructions, the Australian delegation had cosponsored resolutions on a Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, Nuclear Non-Proliferation and the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT). These issues, as he had emphasised in two successive addresses to the General Assembly, were central to progress in nuclear arms control. Australia's leading role at the United Nations on these questions was an aspect of the Government's pursuit of international non-proliferation objectives. 
I might say that both the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics supported Australia's initiatives at that meeting. 
The honourable member for St George and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition quoted from the foreign policy statement of the Foreign Minister on 9 May, in which the Minister said: 
Last November the Government established an expert multi-disciplinary task force on non-proliferation and safeguards. . . . The Government has also joined in renewed international efforts to strengthen the nonproliferation regime, including the important International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation -  which was mentioned by the honourable member for St George. I first saw the horrors of nuclear warfare in January and February 1946 when I was in Japan and viewed the ruins of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I have never forgotten that sight and, were it possible, I would support in the strongest possible terms the banning of nuclear weapons. I hope that one day it will be. I hope that we are moving towards that. As a small nation we have not much strength, but we can add our voice. We have done a good deal in this regard. 
On 27 February 1970, Australia signed the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. A LiberalCountry Party Government was then in office. 
Admittedly the treaty was ratified by the present Opposition when in government, but the initiative was taken by those who support the present Government. 
-I must say that the honourable member for Wills gives me great joy. Shortly before I visited Japan on that occasion, he and I had been taking part in one of the last major operations of World War II. 
Because of that, one can forgive him a great deal. It is all very well to talk about Utopia. Although the honourable member for Wills would like to think that we live in Utopia, we do not. We live in a world of great unrest. The fact that so many new nations are struggling for national identity, particularly in our part of the world must add to that unrest. The problems in Africa today, the problems between Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, the problems in Northern Thailand, are all very real. They are not going to run away. We have a responsibility to the people of Australia to ensure that, should it become necessary, we can defend ourselves. The first plank of this Government's platform is the security of the nation. We cannot exercise that responsibility without spending money on defence. If we lived in Utopia, if we did not live in a very troubled part of the world, perhaps we could cut down on our defence expenditure. I would very much like to see that happen, but we must be realistic; it is just not possible. 
There has been a good deal of debate and discussion on this subject in the Parliament. Most of the questions concerning it seem to have come from this side of the chamber, not from the Opposition side. I refer, for instance, to a question by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  on 1 1 May 1978, in answering which the Foreign Minister said again: 
At the last General Assembly meeting we co-sponsored resolutions on the comprehensive nuclear test ban . . .  and so on, as I mentioned earlier. There was no further debate on the subject nor were there further questions concerning it by members of the Opposition. We talk about a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean. I would be delighted to see such a zone established, but is it practical? Our efforts have been to keep the balance at the lowest possible level. We are faced with a vastly expanded Russian navy. I would like to quote one or two particulars to illustrate the expansion of that navy. The Soviet Navy in 1964 had 20 cruisers and the United States Navy had 29 cruisers. In 1971 the Soviet Navy had 37 and the United States Navy had 27. In nuclear powered attack submarines, in 1964 they were very close- 23 in the United States Navy and 22 in the Soviet Navy. However, in 1978 the United States has 68 nuclear powered attack submarines and the Soviet 88. I could continue quoting figures showing the vast expansion of the Russian Navy and the way it is moving into oceans of the world, like the Indian Ocean, in which it previously showed no interest. We cannot neglect that. It is there. It would be nice to think we could give up all the bases we have in the Indian Ocean. It would be nice to think we could give up the communications facilities which we provide to the United States, but it is just not practical. Unfortunately, we live in a real world. 
I seem to have spent a great deal of my life involved in war in one way and another. We had a short period of peace from 1945 to 1950. From 1950 to 1972 Australian servicemen were continuously at war somewhere in South East Asia. Thankfully, at the moment we are not at war and I do hope, as the honourable member for Wills (  Mr Bryant)  said, that my sons will never have to take part in a war. But we must be realistic about it. We are a small voice but we can have a great influence in our own area. I think we should do all we can to promote peace and stability in our own area by discussions, by talks, by visits, by trade and by aid. But if one of our neighbours asks us to help with arms, I would think we should help them, just as we have helped Singapore and just as we have helped Fiji very recently to arm a small contingent to join the United Nations force. That is the sort of thing we should do. We can do it only in a small way. We do not have a great surplus of arms. There is no doubt in my mind that the Government has done a great deal and, in relation to our size and influence in the world, we have played a very great part in discussions on international disarmament and arms control. I hope this debate has clarified what we have been doing. 
I do not think we need to be ashamed for a moment. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  at the moment is leading a delegation to the United Nations conference on disarmament, and shortly the Prime Minister will address that conference. That will show Australia's very great interest and concern. I believe there is no substance in this matter of public importance raised by the Opposition. In fact I cannot understand why the Opposition raised it because the discussion has had the useful effect of summarising the great deal that the Government has been doing in this matter in the international field. 
-I welcome this Bill, which will help partly to offset the very great costs and the disastrous effects of the discovery of this disease in Australia. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  did say that it had taken a long time to find out about this disease. I do not believe that the system', the Government, the Bureau of Animal Health or anyone involved can be blamed for this. 
The history, very briefly, is that in 1975, as part of a routine check, some 3,000 insects were collected at Boatrice River in the Northern Territory. These comprised 11 different species of midge or culicoides. These were mixed together and used in Australia in testing for various diseases and viruses generally. As a routine measure, the mix was sent to Yale University for testing, and it was at that University that the first suspicion that we might have a bluetongue virus in Australia was confirmed. On 24 October 1 977 that confirmation was conveyed to Australia. Immediately, the problem was referred to the world reference bluetongue laboratory at Onderstepoort in South Africa, which confirmed that Australia had a new type of bluetongue virus, which they named CSIRO- 1 9. 
No one knows how long this disease has been in Australia. As the honourable member for Capricornia so rightly said, it has never shown any signs of affecting cattle. Therefore, we have never had any reason to believe that we had it. It was almost by accident that we discovered that we had this potentially disastrous disease. It is spread by biting midges, the little sandflies which are very prevalent in Australia, particularly in tropical Australia. It is not yet known which of the 1 1 species tested actually spreads the disease. It cannot be spread by cattle. It can only be spread by insects biting cattle, transferring the disease to other cattle and thence to sheep. Cattle cannot spread the disease to sheep. It is not like influenza or any of these other virus diseases. 
The problem is that if it were a virulent form of virus it could have a disastrous effect on the sheep industry in Australia. Because of that, the Government very rightly, in consultation with the States, took some stern measures. A program of testing herds in northern Australia was commenced immediately. When it was discovered that the virus was much more widespread than was originally thought, a large area of the Northern Territory, part of northern Western Australia and most of the Cape York Peninsula in Queensland were declared a bluetongue control area. Controls on the movement of cattle out of that area were instituted. As the honourable member for Capricornia so rightly said, this had a disastrous effect; on the beef producers of that area, those in the bluetongue control area north of the bluetongue line, as it has come to be called. 
I should emphasise that although we have the virus in Australia there has been no indication at all of any disease in cattle. The honourable member for Capricornia said that there were indications that the virus was highly virulent. I understand that that is not so, that it is thought not to be a very virulent type. Tests on sheep so far have produced only the mildest reactions. I will come to that point again in a moment. The problem, particularly, is that producers north of the bluetongue line, in the control area cannot move their cattle out of the area without mustering and testing. This is a very expensive business indeed. 
The Bill provides compensation for mustering and testing, and the payment of $3 a head up to a maximum of $3,000 per property to offset mustering costs incurred to assist bluetongue control. I am advised by industry organisations in the Cape York Peninsula area that on the coast it costs probably not much more than $2.50 a head to muster stock, but that in Cape York it costs up to $9.50 a head. That means that people on the coast will be adequately compensated for their mustering costs. Those in the more distant areas, on the larger properties, will certainly not be compensated fully. I am not sure how it could be done. I wish that there could have been some differential between those with different costs of mustering. The payment will certainly be a help. It is to operate from 1 January to 3 1 December, for the whole of this year. Secondly, the Government proposes payments to producers of $5 a head to meet the cost incurred in survey and surveillance blood testing, which is necessary. Before cattle can be moved out, a percentage of each herd must be tested, and only those cattle which are declared free of the virus may be moved. 
Costs for mustering and testing differ greatly. I am told that on very large properties in some areas this could be up to $19 a head, so that a payment of $5 a head will only partially compensate such producers. The problem in the very large properties is that the cattle have to be mustered over a vast area, brought into a holding area and tested. They have to remain in that holding area until the tests are completed. In the beginning that took quite a long time. Now I am told that tests can be done much more quickly; that results are coming back in about 10 days when there is no positive reaction, and a little longer when the reaction is positive. Again, a payment of $10 a head can be made for movement testing, including testing for export. 
It is very difficult to compensate for the loss of markets, the loss of profit, that producers have suffered. I would like to give just one or two examples of the problem. In Cape York Peninsula late last year eight properties organised the export of live cattle direct from the coast at Marina Plains to Hong Kong. Three shipments were arranged for the first six months of this year- 1,000 head per shipment, for a total of 3,000 head. The price then being received at point of shipment was $85 a head. That is about $35 a head more than they would get if they mustered the stock and sent it south to the nearest abattoir, it would have cost another $10 a head to move them. They are now losing a great deal of money because they cannot export the cattle to Hong Kong, which has closed the market to any cattle from the control area in Australia, north of the bluetongue line. It is a disaster to these properties because they cannot sell their cattle, or find it very difficult to sell them, anywhere else. The northern abattoirs have been booked out for some time and I understand that the eight properties concerned are finding it very difficult indeed to sell any cattle. They have to take whatever price they can get for the cattle that they do sell. 
I am not sure how the Government can compensate producers who are affected by the control measures. I have written to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  explaining the problems to him and asking him to investigate whether there is any way by which some special compensation can be arranged for producers who have been affected. In another case an owner with a very good brahman stud had arranged to the export of bulls to Indonesia.  His  property is just a few miles north of the bluetongue line. He has not been able to sell any of his bulls to Indonesia because Indonesia has closed off any imports from within the bluetongue line irrespective of whether they have been tested and found to be free from the virus. That producer is losing approximately $500 a head because he cannot sell stud bulls to Indonesia. The control measure has had a disastrous effect upon him. 
I cite those two examples to let honourable members know the very difficult problems that are being faced by sections of the industry because of the proclamation of the bluetongue line. As the honourable member for Capricornia so rightly said, this disease does not affect cattle but it does affect sheep. The control measures which are having such a disastrous effect on the producers in the area are there to protect the sheep industry and of course partly to protect the live cattle export industry in Australia. I hope that the Government will consider introducing some form of special assistance for people who are very gravely disadvantaged and in respect of whom the present measures, satisfactory as they are in many areas, do not really fill the bill. I should say that there are many producers in the far north of Queensland, and I think, in the Northern Territory who are satisfied that the Government has taken this action, but of course people always want a bit more. Generally the reaction that I have had over the last few days to the Bill has been a favourable one from the majority of producers. 
The discovery of a bluetongue virus in New South Wales has added to the problem. It is a different virus from the one discovered in Queensland. As the honourable member for Capricornia said, it is not known how that virus came to be in Australia. It is possible that the other virus in the far north of Queensland and in the Northern Territory was brought into this country by insects which have come from other countries to our far north. This is a very possible explanation. However, the fact that a bluetongue virus has been discovered in New South Wales does change the picture. I hope that the investigations which are being carried out at the moment will prove that the viruses that have been discovered are not virulent. There are many types of bluetongue virus in the world which are not virulent. The virus has been found in many countries, including Canada and the United States of America. It is fairly wide-spread in both those countries but, as I said, many of the types of bluetongue there are not virulent. If we can prove that the types discovered in Australia are not virulent perhaps we can very quickly open up some of those export markets in Indonesia, Malaysia, Hong Kong and other countries which at present are closed to Australia. This is having a disastrous effect on the export of live cattle to those markets- 
It is also possible that we may discover that bluetongue is more widely spread in Australia than we think it is. The discovery of the problem in New South Wales is an indication that this may well be so, although hopefully it will have a short-term effect on the export of livestock at the moment. It may mean the removal of the bluetongue line and the removal of the bluetongue control area from North Queensland, the Northern Territory and northern Western Australia because it would seem pointless to have that control area if it were found that the bluetongue virus is much more widely spread in Australia than we at present think it is. The great hope is that we will discover that the virus is not a virulent type; then our markets can be opened up once again. It is only live exports that are affected at the moment. It has not affected meat exports. The virus cannot be transmitted by meat, wool, hide or any other animal products. It can be transmitted only through live cattle 
I commend this Bill to the House. It is an effort by the Government to help producers who are very badly affected by the proclamation of the bluetongue control area. I hope that the Government will continue its efforts as quickly as possible to solve this problem in the ways that I have suggested. If it is not solved the beef industry, which is in a very difficult position because of a loss of markets and because of drought in some areas such as the far north of Queensland, will tend to collapse. I commend the Bill to the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the announcement this morning by the Acting Prime Minister that the United States is now prepared to receive additional quantities of beef, can the Minister advise whether, if other countries which may be offered a quota of this amount cannot supply the meat, Australia will be in a position to supply extra quantities to make up the global quantity which the United States is now prepared to accept? 
-I want to speak tonight on an election promise which has not been honoured by the Government. I quote from the election speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 21 November 1977. He said: 
Other measures to assist people in remote areas will include extension of the limit to provision of free telephone line plant from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said at the same time: 
The provision of free telephone line plant, which we previously extended to 12 kilometres and which Labor reduced to eight kilometres, will now be extended to 16 kilometres. 
I quote now from an answer given by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  on 2 May 1978. He said in part: 
There is a difference between myself and the Commission over the nature and extent of the Government's commitment made at the last election where the Commission believed that the promise to extend the free line plant entitlement from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres should be with respect only to those areas which are programmed for conversion to automatic within two years or where there is already an automatic exchange. The Government's view is that the commitment should be fulfilled without qualification. I have put that view in writing to the  Chairman  of the Commission, and I await a reply. 
I quote now from the charter of Telecom Australia. Telecom is responsible to:   . . plan, establish, maintain and operate telecommunication services within Australia and has a duty to perform those functions in such a manner as will best fit the social, industrial and commercial needs of the people of Australia. To the extent that it considers reasonably practicable it is required to make its services available throughout Australia to all who reasonably require them. 
The Telecom position is that only lines which are due to be connected to automatic exchanges within two years should qualify for the Government's electoral promise. In fact, the Government's promise was quite unequivocal, as the quotes from the speeches of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister make clear. I believe there is a matter of grave principle involved in this problem. Telecom is an independent statutory authority but it appears that the Minister and the Government have no authority over it so far as government commitments are concerned. There was an unequivocal commitment to extend the free line entitlement from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres. That commitment has not yet been honoured. It is being withheld by Telecom. 
I think it is time that the Government took a very firm look at the duties and responsibilities of Telecom. I believe that Telecom is overly influenced by the needs of the metropolitan areas of Australia and is neglecting the needs of the isolated and remote areas of Australia. 
My question is directed to  the Minister for Trade and Resources. In view of the present world price of sugar, which remains very seriously depressed in spite of a recent price increase, can the Minister indicate what action the Government is taking to try to bring about some improvement in the world sugar market? 
I wish to speak on petrol pricing as it affects the isolated areas of Australia. In the recent Budget, the raising of the price of crude oil to 1 00 per cent of the import parity price was the speeding up of a process which was commenced in last year's Budget. Raising the price to 100 per cent of import parity has a number of advantages: First of all, it encourages exploration. Last year, after the commencement of this system, 27 new wells were drilled in Australia. I understand that 130 permits have been applied for for next year. Secondly, the increased price for crude oil will speed up the use of alternative energy sources. Many city industries use petroleum products when they could use alternative energy sources such as coal and gas. I hope that this present policy will encourage those industries to convert to alternative means of energy because we must preserve our very limited oil resources for users with no energy alternatives, such as primary producers, airlines and most of our shipping services. 
I believe that the policy of raising the price of crude oil to import parity is in the national interest. I think that it was inevitable and that there was really no alternative for a responsible government, given the world energy crisis and our oil crisis. But, of course, there are disadvantages. The price of petrol will rise by 16c per gallon or 3tec per litre. That affects all Australians. But is affects most those Australians without alternative energy resources or alternative means of transport. In the cities and towns of Australia with electricity, gas, railways, buses and trams there are alternative energy resources and alternative means of transport. 
I want to quote very briefly the situation in my own electorate, which is probably one of the most difficult and worst served electorates in Australia for transport of all forms. There are 400,000 square kilometres in the mainland part of my electorate, excluding the many islands. There are less than 500 kilometres of usable railway in that vast area. There is limited sea transport. We rely almost totally on road transport and petroleum products. Therefore, I submit that those who live in the electorate of Leichhardt in far northern Australia are much more disadvantaged by this Government's policy, which I agree with, than any other people in Australia. I would like to quote some costs and distances. In the town of Burketown the price of petrol last week was 25c per litre. It is now 29c per litre or more. Burketown is 500 kilometres from Mount Isa and 1,000 kilometres from Cairns, which is its nearest port. There are no railways, only roads. 
-I note the point made by the honourable member for Franklin about discounting. He has made it in this House many times before and I agree with him. I wish I had time to deal with it. In the town of Coen, which is also in my electorate, petrol was 23c per litre. It is now 25c per litre. This town is 500 kilometres from Cairns and has practically no roads. Whilst our petrol is very expensive, it is cheaper than petrol in many other countries. I was informed yesterday that the price of petrol in France now is 60c per litre. In New Zealand it is 32c to 33c per litre, although the average income is about two-thirds of that in Australia. The honourable member for Franklin has often made the point about the discounted price of petrol in cities. This makes petrol more expensive for those in rural areas. I should like to think that the State governments would control the price of petrol. The Victorian Government did it with beer. Obviously it thinks that beer is more important than petrol. Perhaps it is. Because of the distance, isolation and lack of alternative energy sources, the people in isolated areas are specially disadvantaged. City transport is subsidised each year to about $500m by various State, Federal and local governments. Therefore I call on the Government to consider how it can best assist the people in isolated areas who are so very disadvantaged by this policy. Whilst it is in the national interest, it affects them very much indeed. 
At present dieselene which is very much used in our transport system, is free of excise for primary producers and miners. I call for the same policy to be introduced for petrol. Petrol which is used exclusively on the farms and in the mines of the nation should be excise free. There are difficulties; but this is done in Canada. Canada has what is called purple petrol, which is excise free for primary producers and miners. The dye to turn it purple is added by the fuel depots and is a fairly simple system. It means, of course, that separate storage facilities are necessary in the mines and on the farms of Canada. If it can be done in Canada, which has much the same problems as exist on our continent, why can we not do it here? I call on the Government to consider very seriously the introduction of excise free petrol. We might not want to call it purple petrol. Pinkblue is probably a better description for us. 
That is a short term solution to our energy problems in Australia as a whole and the farms and mines in the isolated areas of Australia in particular. We should be looking very much at alternative sources of energy and speeding up research on these matters. It is interesting that Brazil, which has a very serious energy crisis, has started adding ethanol, which is produced from sugar cane, to its petrol and is now approaching an addition rate of 20 per cent of ethanol to its petrol. It aims in the long term for 100 per cent of its fuel to be produced from sugar cane or cassava, which is a type of tapioca. Both sugar cane and cassava grow very well in northern Australia. Land is available for growing more sugar cane and large areas are available for growing cassava, which requires less fertile land than sugar cane. I notice that CSR Ltd presently produces ethanol from molasses, which is a sugar product, at about 28c per litre. It is not yet competitive but, of course, it is getting closer to being competitive as the price of petrol rises. If we put more research into the production of ethanol from sugar and cassava and the production of methanol from coal and the vegetable matter from which it can be produced, I believe that we could reduce the price gap between petroleum products and other products which can replace petroleum in areas where only petroleum products, such as ethanol and methanol, can be used. 
-Why are the oil heaters of Canberra not run on gas or perhaps electricity produced from our immense coal reserves, instead of using our expensive and increasingly scarce oil resources? A new and large primary industry could be started in the far north to produce ethanol from sugar cane and cassava. That could be done right across Australia, not just in my electorate. In the Northern Territory and perhaps in northern Western Australia the same thing could apply. 
-I doubt whether it could be done in Tasmania. I know that Tasmania looms very large in the mind of the honourable member for Franklin but the growing of sugar cane there is not possible. There are some things Tasmania cannot do. There are other sources which we should be investigating and on which we should be spending more money, such as liquid petroleum gas. The Government gave a lead last year by deciding that a proportion of the Commonwealth cars would be converted to LPG. We have vast reserves of LPG. It might be difficult to transport LPG from Bass Strait or the North West Shelf to far north Queensland, but if it were used in the rest of Australia it would release scarce petroleum resources for those areas without any alternatives. I think also that we should be doing increasing work on the production of fuel from shale oil. This work is proceeding. We have just signed an agreement with the United States and the United Kingdom on research into the production of fuel from coal. 
-The honourable member for Lalor has made an interesting point. The Pritchard steam car would use Queensland products. I call on the Government to do all it can to reduce the imbalance which its new pricing policy for crude oil has placed on those people living in the isolated areas of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the Government's attitude to the series of tragic incidents which have occurred in the war in Rhodesia? Does the Government condemn such incidents? Finally, what is the Government's assessment of the political situation now in Rhodesia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of Press reports referring to an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into the sugar industry? Can the Minister inform the House of the nature of the inquiry into the sugar industry? Is there a statutory requirement for a draft report? Do Press reports referring to the need for the issue of a draft report conflict with the views of people in the industry? 
I enjoyed listening to the thoughful and very sensible speech of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  particularly his comments on technical education. I hope that the Government will take note of them. I think a number of speakers have said that the education field was one field in which, in this period of belt tightening, we perhaps could have tightened the belt just a little more. I do not believe we could have tightened it in the primary and secondary sectors, but there is certainly an opportunity for a very hard look at the tertiary sector. I will deal with that matter later in my speech. I want to speak about the two extremes of education, those children, who are disadvantaged for one reason or another and the advantaged students who are at tertiary institutions. First, I would like to deal with the problems of education faced by children in the isolated areas. I note that the appropriation for isolated children is $ 14.6m. There are about 20,000 children who will be assisted by this scheme. That amount is an increase of about $250,000 over last year. I would have liked to have seen more money spent on this area but I will come to that matter later. 
The Federal Government provides a basic boarding allowance of $500 a year, not meanstested, to parents with children in primary or secondary schools without reasonable access to a government school. Additional means-tested allowances are available and there are further allowances for children in cases of particular hardship. The State governments also provide assistance although, unfortunately, the Queensland Government does not provide assistance for primary school students. I know that many honourable members will find that to be a great problem. The children in isolated areas have very special problems. One way of helping with those problems is the School of the Air which operates throughout most of the isolated areas. In my electorate 190 primary school children, aged from 6 to 12years, are enrolled in the School of the Air which operates from Cairns. It also provides a service to children on fishing boats and in light houses. One teacher of the school spends up to 10 days at a time visiting the pupils, who otherwise would have very little contact with their teacher. Another form of education is by correspondence. In Queensland last year almost 1,600 primary school students and 5,000 secondary level students were studying by correspondence. 
Isolated students face special problems. The Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty mentions some of these. A great many of these children are denied qualified and experienced teachers. Their formal education takes place without aids and materials that are common to larger schools. Specialists, such as remedial teachers, are not available. There is also deprivation in the social context in that they have no opportunity to mix with peer groups in sport and general cultural activities. At page 47 of the report of the Commissioner the following appears: 
 It is clear at the present time there is a population shift from the rural areas of the country, and that Australia as a whole is becoming increasingly urbanised. There is a very real possibility that the educational experiences available to children in remote areas fit them less and less for a role in an urban society. 
This is something that we must examine to see what can be done. The obvious way to do that is to make sure that it is easier for these children to go to boarding schools, or schools in the cities. There are in the towns hostels to which they can go. Many of their parents cannot afford it, and are making great sacrifices to give their children an education. 
I refer now to another special problem, the education of Aboriginal children. More than $13m has been appropriated for the Aboriginal Secondary Grants scheme. I agree that it is very necessary that Aboriginal children should receive special benefits as they suffer great disadvantages. I can speak with some authority as I have living in my electorate more than 20,000 Aboriginal and islander children and I am very much aware of the large gap which exists between various sections of the community. However, I am afraid that certain problems are being caused by the making of these special grants. Aboriginal children who go to secondary school have all their fees paid; they have their fares paid, both to go to school and to come home for holidays,* they receive pocket money, clothing, a book allowance and so on. This makes it very difficult for some other people who are living in isolated areas. 
Recently I spoke to a policeman stationed at an isolated Aboriginal community who could not afford to send his children to boarding school.  His  children should receive the privileges that are received by the Aboriginal children in that community. Great changes- very good changes- have taken place in Aboriginal communities, especially in urban areas, where many people of Aboriginal descent are in good jobs and earn good money. It is wrong that just because they are of Aboriginal descent- often quite distant- they should receive privileges that are really meant for Aboriginals who are in isolated communities. I have recommended to the Government that these special secondary school grants for Aboriginals be means-tested. I have not yet received a satisfactory answer but intend to press the Government on it. It is only fair that if an Aboriginal family can afford to send its children to boarding school it should receive no more aid than the equivalent non-Aboriginal family living in the same area. 
I refer now very briefly to problems associated with tertiary education. There is no doubt that a great deal of money is spent upon it, and that some of it could be better spent. For instance, there are in Australia 80 colleges of advanced education, with 15,000 students. There are 19 universities, with the same number of students. One problem is that there is a great misuse of resources, with very small colleges of advanced education duplicating the resources of universities. I know of several cases where universities and advanced colleges are next door to each other and, now that many of the advanced colleges are degree-granting institutions, degree courses are being duplicated. To me that seems to be a gross extravagance and misuse of resources that would be much better spent in other ways. 
All university education in Australia is now free. That situation was created by the previous Government- and for good reasons. Hitherto, university students had been required to pay about 10 per cent of their fees. The remainder had been provided by the Government. About half of all students had had Commonwealth or other scholarships, which were granted according the degree of merit. This meant that children from disadvantaged families found it very difficult to go to a university. I believe that is why the Labor Government did bring in the free education scheme for universities. It does provide, as other speakers have said, equality of opportunity. But I have spoken to a number of vicechancellors about the problem and they assure me that since free university education has become available there has been a great falling off in the motivation of students; that students think that attendance is a right; that they are going to stay on and they need not work very hard. Moreover, standards have been lowered in many of the smaller institutions. I notice that I have a critic in the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  but it is nevertheless a problem that should be examined. 
It is time to decide whether we should spend these vast sums of money upon giving free university education to children. I would like to see a system of student loans instituted for all students. Perhaps they should be given a loan of a certain percentage of their fees- perhaps the same percentage as they had to provide before. When eventually they pass their course they could repay the loan, if" necessary over a number of years. This would increase their motivation, make them work and make them much better citizens of Australia. I commend that suggestion to the Government. 
I have spoken very briefly of the two extremes: Isolated and Aboriginal children on the one hand and the very privileged university students on the other. Let us try to bring the two together so that we do have real equality of opportunity for all Australians, wherever they might live. 
-Following the visit to China of the Minister for Trade and Resources can he indicate what prospects there are for further trade and co-operation between Australia and China? What action will be taken to explore and to develop these prospects? 
-As the member in this House representing the people of the Torres Straits, I was present during the visit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Premier of Queensland on 3 1 October and I was there when the consultations with the Island  chairman  and  deputy chairman  took place. I am quite satisfied in my own mind that they understood the details of the treaty and that they are satisfied with the treaty. They have been consulted at great length by Ministers and officials of both governments and I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his officials who worked so very hard on this problem. Further, I congratulate the Foreign Minister and now  Deputy  Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea, the honourable Ebia Olewale, with whom I share an electoral boundary in this area for his foresight, patience and dedication to the national interests of his country in the reaching of this agreement; it could not have been easy for him. I believe he must have come under much the same pressures that I came under from the people of the area. 
I congratulate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on his speech. It was a statesmanlike speech and I was delighted to see the bipartisan approach which the Opposition has adopted in this very important matter. However, I would take up the point he made about the support for the rights of the people by the Queensland Government. There is no doubt in my mind that the Premier of Queensland must take very great credit for the fact that a solution satisfactory to the people of the Torres Strait has been reached. If it had not been for him we may not have got quite so satisfactory a treaty. He insisted at all times that the rights of the people must be protected. This was not always easy for me, being rather the meat in the sandwich between the State and Federal governments, trying to represent the people. I place on record the splendid achievements of the Premier in this particular field. I look forward to the signing of the treaty next month. 
I know the Islanders are to be represented by the three group chairmen and they will represent a people whom I believe are relieved that at long last their future and that of their children and grandchildren is secure. They are a splendid people with, I believe, a great future. They are strong and were of course very warlike characters. They have fought very hard with words- not weapons- for this solution. I congratulate the people of the Torres Strait for their understanding and patience. I thank the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-We have heard a remarkably irrelevant speech from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  We are, I understand, debating the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  earlier today. Some of the points made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports might be of marginal importance to the nation. It seems to me that as we are living in a very dangerous age and in a very dangerous international situation what the honourable member was saying had some relevance, but it was the small stuff. Today the Prime Minister spoke on three major subjects. He talked about - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  There has been a lot of talk today about the economy. But no one has seen fit to talk very much about the tremendous happenings around the world in the last two weeks, their great import to Australia, and their effect on Australia and on the security of this nation. 
-No, honourable members opposite could not care less. They have never cared about the security of this nation. 
I would like to speak about the defence of the nation. Recent events have shown the impossibility of forecasting into the internatonal scene. I have been involved in this field of foreign affairs and defence since 1942. 1 have been involved in a great number of interesting events, many of them the results of optimistic and disastrously wrong assessments made by politicians. I see the Prime Minister entering the chamber. I am reminded of Chamberlain coming in and waving his paper, saying: 'Peace in our time '. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
-In 1972 members of the then Government, the present Opposition, said that there was no threat to Australia for 1 5 years. I hope that those words are ashes in their mouths today. The situation in Iran is one of the most momentous things that has happened since the Second World War. It has put the free world in very great danger. The possibility of wider conflict in Asia and South East Asia must make us all pause and think about the importance of the situation.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-We heard today from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  a concise, factual and sober speech with a chilling message on the rapidly deteriorating international situation. I think there has been far too much political point scoring today. This is far too serious a situation for political point scoring. I will try to deal in facts, not rhetoric. 
The statement delivered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the events of the last weeks and months emphasise one immensely important fact: It is impossible to forecast events on the international scene with any accuracy. We have always been wrong when we have tried to forecast events and to act on these forecasts. In 1972, for instance, we were told there would be no threat to Australia for 15 years. Now, within a few weeks or months, Australia and the world are facing the most dangerous situation since 1945. There is a danger of war. I do not want to sound like a warmonger, but I have seen too much of war to want another one. I would do anything I could to stop it. But it would only need Soviet action against China, followed perhaps by action taken against the Soviets by the United States of America, for a very difficult world situation to develop. It would be very unlikely that Australia could avoid involvement. 
What can we do? Australia's influence, of course, is limited. Diplomatic initiatives, undertaken in a very far-sighted way, have been going on over the last few weeks. We were among the first countries to predict the Chinese invasion of Vietnam. We can take economic action which is open to us. But the final action of any foreign affairs policy is military action. The Minister for 
Foreign Affairs made this comment in the second paragraph of his speech today: 
So long as the world is organised in a system of sovereign states, power will continue to be the main arbiter in international affairs. 
The seventeenth century philosopher Thomas Hobbes said that covenants without swords are but words; our swords are blunt and we need to sharpen them. In 1976 a White Paper on defence was delivered. It was a sensible, forward looking document which embodied a five-year rolling program. Unfortunately we did not stick to it. We were short sighted. In 1978 we cut the defence budget and we destroyed much of the value of that White Paper. That is most regrettable when we look at the situation today. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  fought very hard to retain his defence program, but he lost out to other priorities. I would like to give very briefly a percentage comparison of total Commonwealth budget outlays over the last few years. For instance, in the 1968-69 Budget the health appropriation consumed 6 per cent of Budget expenditure. This year it is 10.7 per cent. In 1968-69, the social security appropriation was 17 per cent of the Budget. In the last Budget it rose to 27.8 per cent. The education appropriation rose from 2.9 per cent to 8.7 per cent. But the defence vote has fallen progressively every year from 16.6 per cent to 8.7 per cent. We have been lulled into a false sense of security. We decided that these social projects, important as they are, had a greater priority than the security of the nation. But what is the good of magnificent hospitals, schools, universities and welfare programs if we are at war and have nothing with which to fight that war? That possibility is with us today. 
In the 1978 Budget the defence vote was cut leading to the delay of some long term purchases. We could not cut purchases which were already on the order books. So it was possible only to cut the current program. Therefore, the cuts fell on training, maintenance of equipment and the nuts and bolts of a well prepared defence force. Fortunately, in the last few days there have been announcements that some of the defence expenditure will be restored. The equipment levels are to be restored. But this does not make up for the cuts in the current accounts, the cuts in training and the every day work of the Services. It is estimated that $30m to $50m will be needed immediately to restore training standards and allow the Services to reach a reasonable level of operational readiness. That money must be made available today, whatever the cost and sacrifice, if we are to have some sort of preparedness. Our national priorities must be reassessed. The first plank of the platform of the two parties which form the Government is the security of the nation. That security has been neglected. The Government has been receiving advice. Either it has been bad advice or it has not been listened to; perhaps it is a little of each. 
The end product of a foreign affairs policy is a defence force of the appropriate size, shape and strength. Research has shown that in the past conflicts have begun, on average, within 10 months from the first indication that there was a threat. A 50 per cent probability of conflict exists within four months of the first indication of a threat. Yet Australia is in a quite unprepared position. With that in mind, let us look very briefly at the Services. The Navy is perhaps the best prepared of the Services, in peace time, to fight a war. Its ships are manned, its equipment is on board, the supplies are there. The Navy needs more ships. A decision was taken recently by the Government to put one of the Daring class destroyers into mothballs because there are not enough trained men to man it. That is ridiculous in the present situation. The manpower and the money must be found for that ship. It is an awful waste to have a relatively modern ship put into mothballs when it is badly needed. The Government needs to make decisions on naval air power, whether the aircraft carrier  Melbourne  is to be replaced. If it is to be replaced, what will it be replaced with? That is a question for the experts. I have my own ideas, but I do not want to pre-empt their decisions. I was interested to read of a naval symposium held in Canberra recently at which this problem was discussed. It was suggested quite seriously by one speaker that we could have an aircraft carrier or a naval air strike force of some sort if we could reduce the Regular Army by 7,000 men. That is quite absurd and I am sure that it will not be done. 
I turn now to deal with the Royal Australian Air Force. The Fill aircraft are our first line of defence. They are ready with well trained personnel and equipped to go. A decision is needed on the tactical fighter force. Delays are very costly. I was told recently that we could have built the equivalent of 20 hospitals for the cost of the delay in making such a decision. One very serious problem of the Air Force is the shortage of air crews. There is only one operational air crew for each operational aircraft. That is ridiculous. It is not enough. We need to have aircraft which can fly around the clock. We need more air crews urgently. 
The Army perhaps has the worst problem. It has been worst hit by expenditure cuts. It is easy to cut down the size of the Army. To expand the Army from its present base to a reasonable force would take three to five years. We do not have that time span available to us. Therefore, we must increase the present base. The defence experts predicted in the White Paper that we needed a regular Army of 34,000 men. That would provide a balanced force for expansion. At present the Army has 3 1,600 men because the decision not to increase Army personnel was one of the economies which the Government made. There are no plans to increase the manpower strength of the Army at the moment. The Government must make those plans immediately. Manpower is extremely expensive. In the 1950s the Government spent about 30 per cent of the Army budget on manpower. Now it is spending nearly 60 per cent. Even with an Army of 34,000 men if it is to be expanded quickly, Australia needs a strong active reserve force. This is a matter very close to my heart, as I am still on the active list of the Reserve, as is the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  I do not think the honourable member sitting opposite is still a member of the Reserve but we will call him back if necessary. The Reserve must be restored to an effective force. It must be reactivated. The Government and this Parliament must give a lead. Money must be found. It is not a great deal of money. The Reserve is not very expensive to run. But when the cuts came, the training and the activities of the Reserve were cut. The training is pretty dull. It is not good enough. The men do not have the equipment. They do not have enough instructors. They do not have enough money to undertake interesting training. 
If we are to have a volunteer Reserve, we must attract volunteers and keep them. We are attracting volunteers at present but we are not keeping them because we are not doing our job as a nation for them. These young men are keen to learn. They are keen to help to defend Australia. But they get bored stiff because we are not doing enough for them. I hope that every honourable member will go out to his electorate and encourage the reserves, speak of the facts which I have outlined and encourage the Government to give a lead. I have spoken of the threat of war. Many other honourable members have spoken of that too. At the moment we have no mobilisation plans in Australia. The famous war book is 20 years out of date. Perhaps as a priority project we should do something about that. 
I would like to talk very briefly about the defence organsiation. The re-organisation of the Department of Defence was undertaken some years ago. Five departments were made into one. Instead of having five Ministers- a Minister for Defence, a Minister for the Army, a Minister for the Navy, a Minister for Air and a Minister for Supply- we now have one Minister for Defence with an assistant Minister. We have a centralised, civilian controlled department. I believe that it is most unsatisfactory. It is organised for peace, not war. It is no good having a defence department organised for peace when we could be getting closer to war. 
I call for a complete reassessment of the organisation of the higher defence machinery. I believe that it must be looked at very carefully. I believe that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has a quite impossible task to fulfil. He cannot possibly carry out all the duties which are required of him by a vast and very complicated machine. If we are to get things going again and to put the defence forces into a reasonably operational shape we will need to look very closely at where we are going and how we are going to do it. That needs to be done urgently. It needs to be done this year. It needs to be done within a few months. 
It is no good saying that we have to wait a little bit longer and give the present organisation a bit more of a chance to see what it can achieve. It is not producing results. There are far too many committees. There is a dead hand of civilian control. I am a firm believer in civilian control of the Services, but not control by public servants. The civilian control of the Services should come from the Minister and from this Parliament. That has been the traditional method of control ever since Cromwell. We have changed the scene and, because we have changed it so drastically, the civilian elements of the Department of Defence have an over-riding control of the uniformed elements. The committee system means that the uniformed elements do not get a fair go when discussions on important matters are held. I call for a reorganisation as soon as possible. 
The situation is serious. In the past few days we have talked about many issues in this Parliament. Most of them have been completely unimportant matters of detail when one considers the international scene, at what could happen and at what is happening in South East Asia, in China and Vietnam. Three weeks ago I was in China. I saw some of the mobilisation of the forces which are now fighting in Vietnam. We have the problem in Iran and the immense problems associated with energy in the rest of the world. 
These problems cannot help but affect us. I call on every member of this Parliament to give a lead in trying to alert the Australian people to the very serious situation which we now face. If we believe that our first duty as a government is to attend to the security of the nation, we should do something about the present situation. We should do something practical and we should do it quickly. We should reassess our priorities to see from where we can get the money required. We need to provide the money very quickly indeed. We should determine where we can cut expenditure to provide more money for the defence forces. The need for us to do that is very serious today. I hope that all members of Parliament, on both sides of this House, will adopt a bipartisan approach for the security and defence of Australia. 
I will deal with the points made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in due course. I would like briefly to reiterate what the 
Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill is all about. First of all, it establishes the Repatriation Review Tribunal as a single final body for the review of decisions- I stress that point- on repatriation entitlement and assessment matters. That is the first thing it does. Secondly, it provides for the reference of matters of principle from the Repatriation Review Tribunal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Thirdly, it provides access to the Federal Court of Australia for the determination of questions of law. 
Problems certainly exist with the present system. There are four war pension Entitlements Appeal Tribunals and four Assessment Appeal Tribunals. Any ex-serviceman or any member of this House who has experienced some of the problems associated with these tribunals will understand that they operate independently. No machinery exists to ensure that there is any consistency in their decisions or in their interpretations of the law. I am sure that all of us know of almost identical cases which have been treated differently after appeal to tribunals. This has caused a great deal of trouble. People have come to my office saying: 'My friend Bill Bloggs went before an appeal tribunal and won his case. I presented exactly the same case to a different appeal tribunal and I lost'. I believe this weakness exists in the present system. 
I support the aim of this Bill which is to make the system easier to operate. I do not accept the statement of the honourable member for Prospect that this Bill has been introduced to help the Department of Veterans' Affairs the Repatriation Commission or the Repatriation Boards. I think it has been introduced to streamline the appeals system, to standardise it and to make sure that all appeals go to one body instead of to eight bodies as they do now. That is not a good system. I think it is a wasteful system and that it has produced many anomalies. All of us have experienced those anomalies. 
I think that a single tribunal certainly will ensure greater uniformity and consistency in decision making. This will benefit ex-servicemen who appeal against decisions of the boards or the Commission. Under the new system, an exserviceman will lodge his appeal to the Repatriation Commission if a board has rejected his case. If the Repatriation Commission rejects his case he can then appeal to the Repatriation Review Tribunal. At present he applies either to one of the Entitlement Appeal Tribunals or to one of the Assessment Appeal Tribunals. It seems to me that the new system will be much better. I should like to take up a point contained in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Prospect when he said:   in assessment cases, the Repatriation Review Tribunal shall have power to receive, and to make determinations upon, any new evidence placed before it, . . . 
The aim of the new tribunal is to review cases already heard by the Commission. If this amendment is accepted, it will mean that a case can be reopened and that it will have to be reheard by the Repatriation Review Tribunal. I believe that that would be very wasteful. I can see that in some cases it might benefit ex-servicemen but in many cases it will mean that a whole case will have to be examined once again. If any new evidence is produced in the hearing before the Repatriation Review Tribunal, that evidence will be sent back to the Repatriation Commission which will reopen the case- it will not rehear the whole case- in order to hear the new evidence. That should not be a lengthy procedure. I think that if each case in which new evidence is produced has to go before the Repatriation Review Tribunal and the whole case has to be reopened, long delays will be caused because we will only have one Review Tribunal. Of course, a number of panels will be working within the Tribunal. There will be a  president  who must be a lawyer. There will be  deputy  presidents who will head the panels that will hear the cases. It seems to me that the decision to introduce this new Tribunal is a good decision. It will streamline the system. 
I should like to deal briefly with the constitution of the Tribunal. The  President  must be a legal practitioner and he will be responsible for the operation of the Tribunal. He will have power to decide the procedures to be followed by the Tribunal. This is important because it has been decided that the Tribunal hearings should be held in as informal an atmosphere as possible. It has been suggested that there should be legal representation. I agree with the honourable member for Prospect that this would be a bad thing. It would take away the present informality of the proceedings, which is one of the beneficial features of the whole system of repatriation appeals at present. It will be one of the great beneficial features of the appeals system in future. The  Deputy President  also must hold legal qualifications. In the absence of the  President  he will preside at Tribunal hearings. Entitlement hearings are not nearly as complex as assessment hearings. During the entitlement hearings the Tribunal normally will consist of a  deputy president,  a Services member appointed from the list of names submitted by the organisations representing returned soldiers, and a third member. 
Most of the problems in the present system occurred in the hearing of assessment appeals. They are the hearings which really affect individual servicemen. In this case, the third member of the Tribunal will be a medical practitioner. The honourable member for Prospect referred to a telegram from  Sir Mervyn  Brogan whom I have known for many years.  Sir Mervyn  Brogan asked that the third member appointed to the Tribunal be a medical specialist. It is my understanding that the job of the medical member is to help other members to understand and to assess the value of the evidence before the Tribunal and to give opinions on matters of medical inference from proven facts. It is not his job to give medical advice as a member of the Tribunal. I do not believe that he should give private medical advice to the members of the Tribunal- especially if a decision rests on that advice- unless the facts can be vouched for. 
-If there is any problem at all, the Tribunal can call for specialist evidence if it is required. That can be done under proposed new section  107VZ.  I think that that is a satisfactory way of doing it. At any time, the Tribunal can call for a specialist opinion. That is better than having a specialist as a member of the Tribunal. If a specialist is a member of the Tribunal he might be a specialist in arthritis, as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  said, but he may not be a specialist in heart disease. It is much better to have a general medical member who can say to the Tribunal: 'This problem requires the advice of a heart specialist'. A heart specialist can then be summoned to give evidence and opinions before the Tribunal. I agree with that. If there is a requirement for a specialist to be a member of the Tribunal it would mean that many specialists would be involved as different specialists would be required for different cases. This would make for great complexities. It is much better to have a good general practitioner who can advise the Tribunal on the calling of specialist evidence. I did not know about  Sir Mervyn  Brogan 's telegram to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  until just before I came here. I would have liked to telephone  Sir Mervyn  Brogan and talk to him about it but I did not have time to do so. I think that he is seeking to introduce a very complex system by having a medical specialist on the Tribunal. 
I think that the proposal to allow for the reference of matters of principle from the Tribunal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is sensible. Under the existing system there is no right of appeal at all from either the assessment appeal tribunals or the entitlement appeal tribunals if questions of principle need to be settled. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal is a new tribunal which has not yet been completely tested, but I think it would be useful when there are questions of principle to allow this appeal to go forward. The same applies for access to the new Federal Court of Australia for determination of questions of law. I am glad to see that any costs incurred by an appellant in any referral to either the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or the Federal Court of Australia will be met by the Commonwealth. This  is, of course,  as it should be. 
It is interesting that the proposed Repatriation Review Tribunal is modelled in many respects on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It will function in a similar manner. Its role will be to review decisions that are the subject of applications before it rather than to hear applications, as is done in the existing repatriation appeal system. The system of appeals to both the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Federal Court of Australia will remedy a deficiency in the present system. There is no specific right for parties to obtain access to a court of law if they disagree on any issue of law. I believe that this change is a very good thing. Also, the  President  of the Tribunal may, on his own part, refer a question of law to the Federal Court. If this is done by the  President  of the Tribunal the cost to the applicant will be again met by the Commonwealth. If the Repatriation Commission appeals to the Federal Court on questions of law the applicants costs will also be met by the Commonwealth. Whilst the Bill provides a discretion in the Federal Court as to costs when an unsuccessful applicant before the Tribunal pursues an appeal to the Federal Court on a question of law, provision is made for the applicant to apply to the Attorney-General for assistance. 
I would like very briefly to deal with the introduction of six-monthly indexation. As an exserviceman and an individual member of this House, I agree that there should be six-monthly indexation of pensions, but I believe that if this is to be done it should be done in the Budget context and not in the middle of a Budget year. If it were done now it would upset the whole system. 
-No. I believe that we can influence the system we have and that we should influence that system at Budget time so that sixmonthly indexation is restored. I do not think that the debate on this Bill is the occasion to move an amendment to give six-monthly indexation to pensions. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to correct one thing I said earlier. I talked about appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal from the new Repatriation Review Tribunal. I should of course have said that the Bill provides for reference of matters of principle to the AAT. The honourable member for Prospect was critical of the Department of Veterans' Affairs. I think he has been in the game long enough to understand that the Repatriation Boards and the Repatriation Commission are not part of the departmental system; they are quite independent tribunals. When they assess a case they do so quite independently without any interference from the Department. I regret that the honourable member saw fit to be so critical of the Department because in all of my dealings with it I have found it generally to be very efficient, sympathetic and acting in the best interests of exservicemen. It does its best within the regulations. The Department's officers of course have to obey the regulations and in spending vast amounts of money they have to be careful to ensure it is not wasted. I have found the Department to be very efficient. 
I would like to make just two points on the new Repatriation Review Tribunal. The concept of an independent tribunal combining the functions of both the previous War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and the assessment appeal tribunals was proposed by  Mr Justice  Toose in his independent inquiry into the repatriation system. The concept has been supported by the Returned Services League. I believe this legislation will unify and streamline appeal procedures for appellants whose claims have been disallowed. I support the legislation. I do not agree with the amendments proposed by the honourable member for Prospect. I commend the Government for its consideration to ex-servicemen as demonstrated by this Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen reports that the Queensland Government has offered the Federal Government land at Cairns for the permanent establishment of a patrol boat facility? Can the Minister inform the House whether that is correct and whether the Government will take up the offer? 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources indicate what progress is being made with our bilateral negotiations with our major trading partners under the multilateral trade negotiations? Are there any hopeful signs of conclusions being reached? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry received a report of the McKinnon inquiry into the sugar industry? If so, can he inform the House of its recommendations, particularly those regarding the price and pricing mechanism for domestic sugar? 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources report to the House on discussions he has had with the Vice-President of the European Economic Community who is currently visiting Australia? In particular, can the Minister report on the present and likely future impact of the Common Agricultural Policy on Australia 's agriculture? 
-by leave-I welcome this report. The Public Works Committee recently visited Cairns, and I congratulate the Committee because it made a very good impression on the people of Cairns. Very seldom do we get a number of members of Parliament in the far north of Queensland. The people who appeared before the Committee and listened to its members were very impressed with their breadth of knowledge of the subject. I congratulate them on their performance and on the fact that they have brought down this report. It is a very important report. It will allow the construction of a patrol boat base in Cairns to replace the very inadequate facilities presently used. It will be an important link in improving the surveillance capacity of the forces in the far north of Australia. 
-On 1 7 August last year I made a speech in this place about an impending energy crisis and its effect on the isolated areas of Australia, particularly areas which have no sources of energy other than oil based energy. Of course, my electorate is one of those areas. It has only SOO kilometres of railways and covers a vast area four times the size of Victoria. In many parts there are no roads. Such roads as there are are closed for up to five months of the year during the wet season. In my speech I spoke of future difficulties. I spoke of the need to develop alternative energy resources. I spoke about producing ethanol from cassava and sugar cane. I spoke about producing methanol from coal shale. I spoke of the urgency of this sort of thing being done now, not in the future. 
I do not want to sound like a prophet of doom, as in the book entitled  Future Shock  but a small part of the energy crisis is here now. I refer to the situation regarding aviation gasoline in Australia. Traditionally, 60 per cent of Australia's supplies of aviation gasoline have come from Abadan in Iran, a refinery which almost went out of production during the crisis in Iran. It has only just started producing oil again. Forty per cent of our aviation gasoline has originated from the Mobil refinery at Altona in Victoria. That refinery was recently rebuilt so as to produce a larger supply. Unfortunately, when it started operating again early this year there were technical difficulties, relating particularly to the quality of the aviation fuel, and it only produced 70 per cent of its potential production. I understand now that those difficulties have been overcome and it is producing at its full productive rate. Because there is a world shortage of aviation gasoline, we are in a crisis situation. The spot prices of aviation gasoline have gone up from $200 per tonne to $500 per tonne. I understand that at present it is most unlikely that there is any available source of aviation gasoline which we can tap. 
I represent an area which relies on aviation gasoline for many of its essential services. The same applies in the Northern Territory, parts of Western Australia and parts of western New South Wales. I will quote the situation in my own electorate. Firstly, what services do we have which rely on aviation gasoline. One of the most essential is the Royal Flying Doctor Service. Another is the mail service. Many areas rely on aircraft for mail services. The surveillance of the area by the defence forces depends entirely on aviation gasoline. Supplies, food and newspapers are carried on aircraft. At the moment people engaged in mustering cattle are major users of aviation gasoline. Because of the collapse of the cattle industry over the last few years very few trained stockmen are available. To muster very large areas, station owners are relying on helicopters which use aviation gasoline. They must muster now. They have not been able to do so until recently because of the wet season. As the far north of Queensland is a major supplier of beef and almost the only remaining source of beef in Australia, mustering that area must go on or the price of beef will rise even more than it has and we will not be able to meet our export quotas. 
The operators who use Avgas in the far north have been very responsible. They have introduced a voluntary rationing system between themselves, giving priority to such emergency services as the Royal Flying Doctor Service. They are carrying out as well as they can a redistribution of stocks between areas. Bush Pilots Airways Ltd, one of the major operators which uses Avgas for nearly all its fleet, has reduced its schedules in southern areas to concentrate on the northern areas, which are most affected. This is a very responsible approach to a difficult situation. I was informed this morning that the Iron Range aerodrome in northern Cape York is completely out of fuel. That is the only area where fuel can be supplied to aircraft flying over a very large area. There will be no supplies to that area for some days. Yesterday a Caribou aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force landed at Cooktown to refuel. It took 46 per cent of the stocks at Cooktown in one refuelling. Because of that it is possible that the mail services over a very large part of Cape York, run by a small charter company based in Cooktown, will not be able to operate next week. A huge area of 30 major delivery points will not receive any mail. It is possible that some of the smaller charter operators will go out of business. One charter operator which has $500,000 worth of aircraft and back up services and which employs 9 people has found that for the month of June it can operate at only 54 per cent of its normal operations, which is almost half. It obviously cannot survive for too long if it does not get supplies of aviation gasoline. 
I am informed that there are insufficient stocks to ensure totally that emergency services in far north Queensland can be maintained. I believe that this is a very serious situation as there are no alternatives. So we must do something about it. Three oil companies supply aviation gasoline. One is Mobil Oil Australia Ltd, another is BP Australia Ltd and I cannot recall the name of the third. They have worked out an allocation system between themselves which is now in operation. I appeal to those companies to make sure that their allocations go to those areas which have no alternatives. This will mean reducing the supplies of aviation gasoline in the cities. The small aircraft which fly around the cities are not providing essential services. There are alternatives. I ask the oil companies to look very closely at where their fuel is going throughout Australia because we will be short for some time. I appeal for a much stricter and more responsible system of allocation. At the moment this can be done only voluntarily. The Commonwealth has no power to ration this fuel. Therefore, I appeal to the oil companies- they are doing a good job- to realise what the potential emergencies are and do something about the situation. 
-It is essential. I thank the honourable member. I ask the defence forces not to use aircraft which require Avgas if they have to be refuelled in areas where there is a shortage of supplies. This should be possible. I would like the States to look at the allocation of Avgas because stocks are available in some areas and not in others. I ask the States to consider the reallocation of stocks from one place to another. Only the States can do this. I understand that there are stocks in Queensland but not in far north Queensland. I ask for Commonwealth and State co-operation in this very serious matter. To keep emergency services going the States and the Commonwealth may have to help with the cost of the reallocation of stocks throughout very large areas. I am talking about small quantities only. 
This is a small crisis on the national scene but it is a major crisis in the isolated areas of Australia which have no alternative means of transport. I hope that this crisis will be widely publicised. I hope that it will help to educate the people of Australia in the problems we will face in the future with fuel supplies because of the world energy crisis. The queues in California are of minor importance compared with the shortage of aviation gasoline in Australia because there are alternatives. I ask for sympathy, understanding and immediate action to try to solve this very difficult problem. 
-I join with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in his comments. I was on that parade. Like him, I felt the charisma and great personality of Lord Louis Mountbatten. After the parade I had a very pleasant duty. I was detailed, as a very young soldier, to escort Lady Mountbatten for a swim. It is a memory I will always cherish. I join with the honourable member for Wills in calling on all lovers of peace to condemn this terrible action, and I hope that it will make us all in this Parliament work towards peace and friendship throughout the world. 
The Minister for National Development will be aware that there is a shortage of diesel fuel in north Queensland. He will be aware also that the sugar, mining, transport and fishing industries are all suffering from this shortage. What can the Government do to ensure that diesel supplies will be adequate? Further, can the Minister say also what is being done to ensure that fuel supplies are positioned in isolated areas in north Queensland before the beginning of the wet season? 
-Last night the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  made a speech which could be entitled The epidemic of smoking'. He was critical of the advertising of some tobacco companies. Of course, he has a perfect right to make that sort of speech, but he did suggest that Parliament should act to discourage or stop people from smoking. He skirted the problems of the freedom of liberty of the individual. I must disagree with his suggestion that this Parliament should legislate to stop people doing things that they individually want to do. There is a tendency for some members on both sides of this House to believe that we should legislate to control the free will and liberty of individuals. Surely the majority of members on the Government side are committed to freedom of choice by individuals unless their actions are damaging to others. There is no evidence at all that smoking is damaging to any individual other than the smoker. Surely, we want less and smaller government, not more and bigger government. 
People do smoke and the tobacco industry supports a very large number of tobacco farmers. I might also suggest that the honourable member for McMillan does not have any tobacco farmers in his electorate. In the electorate of Leichhardt I have 550 tobacco farmers who account for 40 per cent of Australia's tobacco production. They support the two small towns of Mareeba and Dimbulah. Almost 12,000 people in that area are dependent on the tobacco industry. For them there is no alternative crop to tobacco. Their farms are small farms of 25 to 30 hectares. The industry is naturally concerned about its future. Whilst people have the freedom to smoke if they wish, growers must be given a fair share of the market. At present 50 per cent of Australian leaf is used in the manufacture of tobacco products in Australia by agreement with the tobacco companies. Recently during the Multilateral Trade Negotiations the duty on imported United States leaf was reduced by 60 per cent. This will have no effect on the present tobacco stabilisation plan, because the plan has another year or so to go. Under the MTN agreement 50 per cent of Australian leaf is bound. I might say that this reduction in duty gives a windfall to the tobacco manufacturers of something like $7m. 
It is natural that growers should be discouraged and concerned. But there are two senior Ministers of this Government, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who are determined to help the tobacco farmers to survive and prosper while people smoke. Next week these two Ministers are to have discussions with the manufacturers to see what can be done to help the growers. Smoking is a matter of freedom of choice by individuals. My firm view is that any reduction in the usage of tobacco products should not be met by penalising Australian farmers. We should restrict imports of manufactured tobacco products or require manufacturers of imported products to use a percentage of Australian leaf. When two small towns and many thousands of people are dependent on only one industry and that industry is threatened by imports we should do something to protect it. We should not protect it entirely- we will have to have some imports- but we should protect it so that the people who are already there will survive. I again say that this Parliament should not legislate to control the liberty and freedom of choice of the individual. 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise whether there has been any progress in discussions between the Commonwealth Government, the Queensland Government and the sugar industry on the McKinnon inquiry into domestic sugar pricing? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware that a petition containing 8,818 signatures from Cairns has just been presented to this House. It calls for a delay in the signing of the fisheries agreement with Japan so that negotiations can be continued for a larger buffer zone to protect black martin. Last night the Minister had a meeting with fishing representatives from Queensland and New South Wales to discuss this very difficult problem. Can the Minister comment on the possibility of delaying the signing of the agreement? What steps can be taken to ensure that the black marl in are protected from long-line fishing, both now and in the future? 
-The speeches made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  were very disappointing in that they were emotional and destructive. To say that confrontation is the only alternative for Yarrabah is complete and utter nonsense. It is quite wrong to say that and it will only do great damage to the people of Yarrabah and to other Aboriginal communities in Queensland. A destructive speech does not do any good in this very difficult area. Let us try to do something for these people by negotiation. Confrontation is not the answer and never will be. Let me be constructive. I would like to pay tribute to the Yarrabah Council and the people of Yarrabah. It has been a first-class Council. I am very impressed with its members both individually and collectively. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has said that they have been patient. They have been patient and they have been determined, too. They have stated exactly what they want. They have been part of the negotiations and on 11 September in Canberra the Council met with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  and the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland, the Honourable Llew Edwards. In those negotiations the Council said what it wanted. Following the negotiations, the Council issued a statement. It gave a copy to me and to a number of other people. I was at Yarrabah only a couple of weeks ago when one of the councillors gave a copy of the statement to the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement manager. The Council said in its statement after that meeting with  Senator Chaney  and  Dr Edwards: 
We want the right to do our own thing at our own pace. First we want land tenure and land security of all the land included in the present Yarrabah Reserve, including Mission Bay. 
As a first step we want a SO year lease granted to the Yarrabah Council with a guarantee of a renewal. We want the Yarrabah Council to be appointed trustees. We want this agreement protected by an Act of both the Commonwealth and the State Parliament so that the land can never be sold. 
Then we want to move to self-management in cooperation with the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Advancement and the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The statement continued: 
Gradually, as the Council sees fit, we will take over all the functions at present carried out by D.A.I.A. on the Yarrabah Reserve. 
The statement concluded: 
We believe these are sensible and practical ideas which must be achieved in co-operation with both the State and Federal Governments. 
That statement was made by the  chairman  and two councillors of the Yarrabah Community Council. It seems to me to be a very firm and very sensible statement. It is a great credit to the Council which is under great pressure from people like the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Capricornia to confront. It is under pressure to confront. That is the statement made only a few weeks ago. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member for Capricornia will remain silent. 

-I am quietly confident that the community will get the two things that it has asked for. It has asked for security of land tenure in that beautiful area- it is a beautiful area- and self-management. It can get this. I am sure that it will get it. The annual report of the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement for 1979 states: 
Of great single importance was the extension of the powers and prerogatives of elected Community Councils, which as corporate bodies are now able to accept greater responsibilities for the conduct of their communities. 
That report was tabled in the Queensland Parliament. It goes on to say: 
Councils are legally able to carry out many of the functions provided by the Public Service administration and establish a greater degree of independence and selfmanagement by raising their own revenues, receiving other public moneys and accepting responsibility for provision of services. 
After hearing that statement, does the Opposition believe that confrontation is the only way? Of course it is not. Negotiation is the way in which to do it. It has taken a long time. I agree that this has taken far too long. I know, and I have already said, that the Yarrabah Council has been very patient and very firm. It knows where it is going and it knows what it wants. I think it will get it. It has said publicly and to me privately that it really does not want local government as the communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island have it. That is an alternative which it might consider. Three weeks ago I visited Aurukun and Mornington Island. I must say that I was very encouraged by what I saw. The difference in the six months or so in which the communities have had local government functioning effectively is quite remarkable. I suggest that the Council of Yarrabah should visit Aurukun and Mornington Island before it makes firm decisions on the form of management which it wants. I met the council of both Aurukun and Mornington Island and discussed the success or otherwise of the experiment which is being conducted. They believe that it is successful. They told me that it is working. They said that they are getting more confidence in running their own affairs. They said that they do not feel that they are being interfered with by either State or Federal government. That is an important statement. They said that they believed that they had selfmanagement as they wanted it. 
At Aurukun the shire clerk withdrew and the council discussed its progress with me. It discussed it very forcibly. In fact, I was rather pleased to witness a considerable argument between two councillors about a certain matter. That is the sort of argument that I had not seen previously. It was a hammer and tongs argument in council. That was local government working as I think it should work. 
-They were debating things. They were not confronting; they were negotiating and discussing. That is what we really want to do in relation to the Yarrabah situation. To say for a moment that confrontation is the right answer is quite wrong. I hope that it will not come to confrontation. The Commonwealth has certain responsibilities but I hope that we can achieve recognition of those responsibilities as far as Yarrabah is concerned by negotiation, not by confrontation. It is not just the future of Yarrabah which is at stake. All the other communities, which have not yet achieved selfmanagement that is, all those except Aurukun and Mornington Island- half a dozen or more of which I have visited recently, are watching the Yarrabah situation very closely. They are waiting to see what they should do next. That is a sensible decision on their part. 
There are many good things about Yarrabah. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made a very emotional speech about it. Three weeks ago or less I went to the Yarrabah school sports and fete. I wish that he had been there to see that. That was very encouraging, too. The staff at that school are very dedicated. All the children and the parents were there. The parents were running the fete, making money for the school. The art work of the children was quite remarkable. The story of the history of Yarrabah was depicted in a mural around the walls of one of the school rooms. That is the sort of thing which is happening. It is easy to be destructive; it is easy to pick out the worst points. Let us pick out the good points such as the fact that we have a community there. It has problems, but there are many problems in other communities, both Aboriginal and European, in the isolated areas of Australia. These problems occur as a result of distance and isolation and often as a result of the neglect of governments, both State and Federal. Our job is to see that that neglect is redressed. We must do that but not by confrontation. We could have confronted the communities of Aurukun and Mornigton Island, but by negotiation, by the firmness of the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, who is sitting at the table, a very satisfactory solution was found. The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island have land tenure. They believe that they have security over their land. The outstation system at Aurukun is working splendidly. The people feel confident of their future. 
-They are making a great deal of progress. I suggest that if we had had confrontation at that time, we would have had High Court actions, legal battles extending maybe for years while those people were destroyed. Now at Aurukun and Mornington Island, because of the firmness of the Government, we have achieved great things. We have to have the same sort of achievements at Yarrabah. They may follow a different path. That is up to the Yarrabah people. If they decide that they do not want local government, but some other form self-management, as they indicated in the statement that I read, then we should listen to them. There are many complexities. It is not going to be simple. We are going through a new phase in relationships between State and Federal government and the Aboriginal communities in Queensland. I am confident that good sense and charity will prevail and that we will get security of land tenure and self-management not only for Yarrabah but also for all the communities in Queensland that want it. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. In June of this year he proposed certain changes to section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act. When will those amendments come before the Parliament? What are the main features of the amendments? 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-On the Australian Broadcasting Commission news at 7.45 this morning, the following statement was made about proceedings in the Queensland Parliament: 
The Labor member for Cairns,  Mr Jones,  told the House that the National Party member for Barron River,  Mr Tenni,  the Federal member for Leichhardt,  Mr Thomson  and  Senator Glenister  Sheil had an association with the central drug figure Neville William Walsh. 
My brief acquaintance with  Mr Neville  Walsh began as follows: I was introduced to him early in the 1975 Federal election campaign as a Cairns businessman who was offering to help. I had never met him before. He was one of many local businessmen offering to help at that time. He offered my campaign committee some old desks for the campaign office. I understand that  Mr Walsh  provided a female clerk for the campaign office for a short period, but she left as more voluntary labour became available. Towards the end of November 1975 I was campaigning outside Cairns when  Mr Walsh  was charged by the police with a robbery offence of which he was later acquitted. My campaign committee immediately decided to have nothing further to do with  Mr Walsh.  I did not meet him again until November 1976 when he was present at a local school where I was presenting an Australian flag. Other than a greeting, we had no conversation at that time. I have not met or seen him since. 

 Mr Jones also made the following statement in the Queensland Parliament last night in relation to  Mr Neville  Walsh: 
One of the sons of the Federal member for Leichhardt has been in his employ at the behest of the member for Leichhardt. 
One of my sons was employed for a short period by  Mr Walsh  but not at my behest. The circumstances are as follows: In November 1976 one of my sons, then 1 9, and a university student, was looking for temporary employment during his university vacation. A neighbour who was a boilermaker said that he thought he could get him a job as a boilermaker 's assistant. At that time we did not know the name of the employer. A couple of days before my son started the job we discovered that the employer was a firm called Maxmore Engineering, with which  Mr 
Walsh was connected. After some family discussion we decided that there seemed to be no reason at that time why my son should not take the job. My son worked for the firm for approximately five weeks. Most of that time he was helping to bolt a roof on to a new hotel. At no time did I approach  Mr Walsh  about this job. 
I emphatically deny any dealings with  Mr Walsh  of the kind alleged in the Queensland Parliament and will welcome a full investigation. I commend the Queensland Premier for asking that the Williams royal commission be reopened and I will willingly give evidence to this commission. 
