I ask the Minister for Immigration: In the new citizenship oath or affirmation is it proposed to include the words renouncing all other allegiance'? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I add my congratulations to the many that have already been expressed to you and ask that you convey to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his appointment to that high office which is a fitting tribute to the years of service that he has given to this Parliament and to his electorate. This new Government comes into office with all the enthusiasm, vigour and expertise that is needed to form the best and most progressive government this country has ever known. It comes in at a time when the nation cries out for change and progress, and no section of this country cries out more than does the section at the local, level. Successive Commonwealth Governments have refused to recognise the relationship that should exist between governments at all levels. They consistently have refused to recognise local government as other than a child of the States and something that should be the responsibility of the States. 
This year a convention is to be held to discuss the Constitution of this country. Some progress may be made at that conference but one would not have to be a prophet to realize that the States will protect zealously the sovereignty they have and that in fact not a great deal of change will be achieved irrespective of the necessity for change, but change Will come. It will not come from the inspiration and initiative of government, from where it ought to come. It will come with the assistance of communities - the same communities that elect governments and expect governments to provide for them the initiative to provide change. These communities are fed up with inadequate schools, sewerage systems, housing and hospitals and lack of proper planning. No longer are State and local government boundaries and areas of responsibility, created over a century ago, necessarily satisfactory to meet our modern needs. Not since 1861 has there been any significant change in any State boundary, and this is despite the concerted attempts by groups of people in organisations like the new State movements in New England, the Riverina, and north and central Queensland to effect a change more suitable to the area of responsibility today. There have been moves in some State. Parliaments but these also have failed. Fortunately in New South Wales there is at present an inquiry into local government boundaries. One should not be too critical of other governments unless I suppose one looks at this Parliament. Like culture, tradition certainly has some place in our community. But when tradition impairs the proper functioning of this House then it is time that the House took it upon itself to consider the situation. 
An honourable member in his speech yesterday used the words 'an expensive debate' but immediately corrected himself and said an extensive debate'. I suggest that he was right in both respects. The time honoured tradition of divisions in this Parliament is a useless waste of time. In an age of electronics and computers we should be looking for something more progressive and more in keeping with the times than our present system. It is an indictment of the Parliament that we have not looked at the ceremonies performed in this place to ascertain whether they can be modernised. I agree with members of the Opposition and Government supporters who have spoken in this debate that more information should be provided to Opposition supporters and that they should be given greater access to information so that we can have in this Parliament a proper forum. Honourable members would then be able to debate intelligently and with conviction the things that come before this House. I hope that this will eventuate under this Government. It certainly did not apply under the previous Government. Some change has been made in this House and I commend  Mr Speaker  for his leadership. It is possible that he. has shown the way in this regard. 
The Cook electorate is situated on the southern perimeter of Sydney. It has a population of some 100,000 people, half of whom are' under 20 years of age. The electorate has the privilege of having within its boundaries the birthplace of Australia where in 1770 Lieutenant James Cook landed on our shores. In this electorate 2,000 young people leave school every year and seek job opportunities or go on to higher education. Most of the population in the area is in the middle income group. We have all the social problems that a community of this nature would have. Many young families in my area pay $25 to $35 a week in rent and very often they are receiving incomes of less than $65 a week. I think that very few of these people added much to the statistics released yesterday giving the average wage at $104 a week. 
We do not know just what are the social implications for those people who are affected by the inadequate housing in the States. Today some 400,000 people are urgently in need of housing. This represents a housing need of approximately 93,000 homes. The States over the years - and the Commonwealth must accept its responsibility - have failed to meet the needs of housing especially for the low income groups. I think there is a definite need for a type of housing for young married couples such as a low rental type of housing suitable to accommodate young married couples over the first years of marriage. These people cannot possibly accrue any savings while they are paying the enormous rents that they have to pay in the competitive housing market today. 
I was very pleased to hear the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  say yesterday that the State governments have taken some initiative in freezing land prices in the areas that are going to be developed for housing by this Government in co-operation with State governments. Too many fortunes have been made in the past by the stroke of a pen changing the planning provisions pf an area. Unfortunately the people, who have made the fortunes have not always been the original owners of the land. The land has been purchased by development companies and then when rezoned for housing vast fortunes have been made, forcing up the price of land and the price of housing generally. 
In the field of urban and regional development this Government will show the way. Our cities are choked, our streams are polluted and our public transport system is a schemozzle. Yet governments have not shown initiative by doing something about decentralisation. I am sure that under this new Government we will see - and we will see it in the first 3 years - some reasonable progress made in the field of urban and regional development. Decentralisation will no longer be a catchery but a reality. People will be able to move from the cities into country areas which are not only well planned and desirable but which will provide everything they need for their living. Over recent years governments have failed consistently to show initiative and it is very apparent in the building industry today that there is a grave lack of tradesmen and a grave lack of recruitment of apprentices to service this industry. Yet nobody seems to know how bad the position is or how serious it will be in the future as we strive to build houses which the people urgently need. 
In the field of social welfare nothing significant has been achieved in the 23 years the previous Government held office. We have already indicated our intentions - and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had tabled a statement today - in regard to one of the great needs of this country. I refer to the national rehabilitation and compensation scheme. I commend that scheme to the House. There is no more urgent need than a compensation scheme for people who in the prime of their life for some reason are stricken down, whether it be bv a heart attack or some other illness, and their families left destitute in a short space of time. This area of social welfare was neglected by the previous Government. No attempt was made to overcome this enormous problem. Frequently these people are rehabilitated within a reasonable period only to find that they are totally incapable of meeting the enormous debts which they incurred during the period of their incapacity. There is a very great need in this area. I hope that this scheme is expedited so that the people of Australia can rest easy knowing that there is a scheme to provide for them in time of illness or injury. 
It has been very obvious in recent years that the existing health schemes will not be able to cope and that people, particularly in the lower income groups, will not be able to afford the necessary insurance to provide them with the benefits of a proper health and hospitals scheme. I am quite sure that in a very short space of time this Government will again show leadership in this regard and will be in a position to provide an alternative scheme to the people so that they will be able to get proper health services. Also, by showing the initiative and the enterprise it will be able to reduce the enormous need for people to be hospitalised. Health services in the home will be made available to people who previously would have had to go into hospital. 
I commend the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  on the work that he has done so far. I can think of no other area which needs greater activity. Already the Minister has been able to achieve a great deal. He has had numerous conferences with the State Ministers. I am quite sure that within the next 12 months we will see a rejuvenation in this field and possibly a reduction rather than an annual increase in the waiting list of people for this urgently needed accommodation. I am proud to represent the people of Cook in this Parliament. I look forward to participating in the debates and deliberations. I hope that they will be upgraded over the period in which Labor is in office. I offer honourable members my co-operation at all times. 
I ask the Prime Minister what action he intends to take to protect the interests of Australian citizen, Alexander Mounbaris, who has been arrested in South Africa under the. Terrorism Act of that country for alleged smuggling of freedom fighters into South Africa. 

 - Mr Speaker, today  His  Royal Highness, the Duke of Edinburgh, unveiled a memorial to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Royal Australian Air Force. It is appropriate, therefore, that the House should give some consideration to the operations of No. 34 Squadron, the transport wing of the RAAF. Honourable members will be aware that a senator of this Parliament was unable to travel on an aircraft of this squadron last weekend with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  because the name of that senator did not appear on the passenger list for that flight. This occurred even though the area covered by the flight was one in which this senator normally operates and is part of the area of his State which he specifically represents. This senator is a dedicated member of this Parliament and, on at least 2 occasions, he has undertaken tours of the area visited by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to meet bis constituents and to see their problems at first hand so that he may represent them in this Parliament 
It appears to me that on the whole question of the use of what is incorrectly described as the VIP Flight this Parliament has become subservient to outside opinion. Let me go over the history of this matter. In 1967, a question was asked in this Parliament - I think by a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party - about the use of so-called VIP aircraft. I say that these aircraft are erroneously called VIP aircraft because that description does not give a true picture of the operation whatsoever. That term also gives a false impression of the use to which these aircraft are put. But the question was asked and the matter was debated. There was much ado about nothing for a long period. The question involved was one of credibility and was not related to the use of the aircraft. 
Unfortunately, the Press took up the cudgels and other events occurred. The debate continued for a long period and the Parliament became supersensitive about the VIP aircraft issue. The position has arisen now that this great tool that is available to members of this Parliament is not being used as it should. The use of these aircraft is not being viewed in its proper perspective. Ministers and members of this Parliament are not putting the available resources to the best use. The Press makes a great deal of play about junkets. Let me say that I do not believe that any member of this Parliament who must travel as much as most members do or who travels as far as a number of members must and who lives away from home as often and as long as members do would necessarily elect to travel somewhere simply because this method of transport was available to that destination. Normally, members of this Parliament are dedicated people who learn bv what they see. In this respect, I wish to quote from the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment which inquired into the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait islanders and the preservation of their sacred sites. That report states: 
The Committee has spent 3 weeks in the field on visits to the Northern Territory and Western Australia and has found these field trips of inestimable value. They have contributed enormously to our appreciation of the rich cultural heritage of the Aborigines and to our understanding of their traditional relationships with the land and the physical features of the countryside around them. 
I am quite sure that that statement reflects an example of the type of education that members of Parliament receive when they are able to travel to different areas as members of standing, joint or select parliamentary committees. I would suggest that, when any Minister undertakes a tour of this nature - it could be a visit by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or any other Minister - it is quite competent and should be the order of the day for one ot two members of the Opposition and of the Government who are particularly interested in those matters that the Minister is going to see to travel with the Minister. lt would do Ministers, members and their respective officers good, I think, to look at the problems faced by those honourable members who travel to this Parliament from South Australia and, particularly, Western Australia. Any honourable member who has been to Western Australia, who has travelled from Perth to Melbourne on the aircraft that leaves at 12.45 a.m. and arrives at Tullamarine at 5.30 a.m. and who then has been required to wait a further 2 hours to catch an aircraft to fly to Canberra must realise that this journey is no great pleasure. A number of members of Parliament must undertake this journey many times when Parliament is sitting. lt seems to me that No. 34 Squadron could be used to transport members of Parliament who live long distances from Canberra to and from their respective States so that so much of their time is not taken up in travelling. One could argue that, if seats are available on commercial flights to and from the respective States, those seats should be used. But I have travelled to Western Australia and I have seen passengers put off aircraft because not enough room is available for ordinary commuters. Obviously, on occasions when members of Parliament are travelling, insufficient seats are available for the number of persons who wish to travel on the aircraft. It seems to me that we ought to make better use of this squadron. 1 can find in Hansard one reference only to the cost of operating No. 34 Squadron. In this respect the amount of $450,000 was given on 25th October 1967. I am unable to say whether this was the total cost of the operation of this wing for the financial year in question or whether this was the cost of the actual flights that were made by it in transporting members of this Parliament. I would be most interested to know what happens to the personnel and flight crews of No. 34 Squadron when their services are not required to transport members of this Parliament,  His Excellency  the Governor-General or distinguished visitors from overseas. 
I think that it is time for this Parliament to take an objective view of this squadron. The fact that a senator who spends as much time on parliamentary duties as the honourable senator in question does was not given permission to travel on this flight last week-end in his own area of activity is an absolute indictment of the attitude adopted to these aircraft. The rules governing the use of these aircraft should be amended so that No. 34 Squadron is put to better use. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  has just presented an interesting philosophy. But, of course, it holds no truth in fact. Today, according to housing commission applications alone, more than 93,000 families in Australia are waiting for a home. Almost half of these families are in my own state of New South Wales. This figure does not represent all people who are waiting for homes. Many people are deterred from applying to the State housing commissions because of the long waiting list for homes. The real number of families waiting for homes must be almost half a million. Most of these people are in the low income group. Possibly the greatest single problem that faces any Australian family is the attainment of a home. 
In the area where I reside and which the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  represents in Sydney, over the last few months a charitable organisation has constructed an experimental home of a certain type. When it did this I asked the people concerned with that organisation whether they would mind keeping a record of the people who came to view that home. They obtained statistical details from the visitors. In Sydney on Monday I was approached by a deputation from the people involved with the construction of the home and since then, by priority mail, I have received details of the people who had visited the home. Over 800 young couples have viewed this home because, supposedly, it is a cheap home. It is a small home at a cheap price. But it is a daily occurrence for the visitors to be in tears as they explain to the people involved in this project that it is impossible for them, paying $35 a week for a rental home, possibly with a bring home pay of $65 a week and with one or two children, ever to look forward to the possibility of owing their own home. 
What the honourable member for Bennelong said in some respects was right. But I do not believe that the Minister for Housing or any other honourable member on this side of the House does not want to see everybody owing his own home, if possible. But we have to face facts. One reason why the price of Australian homes has risen out of all proportion is that land costs are so high. In addition there are the actions of agents and developers. The price of land in the Sydney region has risen to such an extent that nobody can reasonably expect to be able to afford a home. This is something that we must look at more seriously. In all other industries we have endeavoured to raise productivity so that people who work in the industry might enjoy the benefits of a productive industry, including higher salary and reasonable working conditions. Higher productivity also means that the employers in industry receive a reasonable return on their investment. In the housing industry for about the last half century no real progress has been made towards better methods of building homes and providing shelter for people. The old bricks and mortal  concept is still with us. 
Honourable members will be aware that some cities in Australia are importing trades men from the other side of Australia in order to meet the great need for bricklayers and other building workers. Yet in other parts of the world, notably in the United States of America, efforts have been made to mass produce homes in factories and to bring the price down so that everybody might enjoy the benefit of living in reasonable accommodation. The purpose of this Bill is to provide for an urgent need. I suggest that any honourable member who is not inundated with people in his electorate making requests for assistance with housing does not make himself available to the members of his constituency. The constituency which I represent is, by one measure or another, a middle class to higher income area. Yet, daily in my office people ask me to make representations to the New South Wales Housing Commission and other organisations. 
Just prior to the recent election, while I was  President  of a local council in my electorate, I was asked to make representation on behalf of a young couple who were in dire circumstances. They had 3 children, one of whom was very ill and required expensive medical treatment. Some years before the family had applied for consideration from the New South Wales Housing Commission. I used my personal friendship with the Director of the Housing Commission on their behalf. I wrote to him and asked whether these people could be given some priority. After 6 months, the other day they received a reply. Unfortunately the reply was: 'No, no further priority can be given'. The position in New South Wales is that about 12 months ago there were 36,000 applicants for houses. There are now about 47,000 families waiting for homes in New South Wales. It is absolute rot to say that there is no housing shortage in New South Wales. Of course there is a shortage of the type of housing that people can afford. If people are able to pay $50, $60 and $70 a week in rent, there is no shortage of houses, but the average person can in no way afford to pay that sort of money. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to another matter which has concerned me greatly over a long period. I refer to false advertising and the high cost of money for people who want to avail themselves of a house. I cannot see why money, which is a non-productive sort of commodity, should be as expensive as it is to people today. People are having to pay an enormous. price. for money. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to an advertisement which appeared in the Sydney 'Sun' of Friday, 30th March, which slates: 
Starr-Bowkett Interest Free Home Loans. 
Nothing could be further from the truth.  This  is the type of false advertising that has been inflicted on a great number of people, especially in New South Wales, in recent years. Let me read to the House the report of the Registrar of Co-operative Societies for the year ended 30th June 1963 - a long way back.  The  Registrar stated: 
Several years ago 1 reported misgivings entertained by the Government Actuary and by me regarding accelerated activity in what we felt was the artificial promotion of Star-Bowkett societies. 
To people who are their natural followers the gamble for the elusive 'interest-free' loan by ballot (which, however, may not become available for 15 or 20 years) is no doubt some attraction. Such societies also lend on types of  securities  that are not always acceptable to other institutions. It is even acknowledged that there are people who would never have saved at all but for membership in a Starr-Bowkett. Against this there are people who have lost on the deal and who have withdrawn in disillusionment; it is of no avail to say that they should have looked more carefully before entering upon membership. 
The  advertisement which appeared in the 
Sydney 'Sun' to which I have already referred is most enticing and any young couple trying to get a house of their own would be attracted to it. I hope the House will bear with me, because 1 believe this is a very important matter. The Registrar continued: 
In enlightened times societies of this type, the pattern of which originated early in the last century, quite definitely find no favour officially as a pure medium of housing finance, despite refinements they have been persuaded to adopt. 
Regardless of all pros and cons my personal inclination after a life-time study of these societies is to view the system itself as one of the 'horseandbuggy' variety in a motor-car age. It is regrettable, in my opinion, that expansion of the system should have been featured in a series of broadcasts by a director as 'one of the real solutions to the problem' of housing finance. 
The report explained that a member of these societies might, if he is very fortunate, obtain an interest free loan but that over a period of 15 years he may not get an interest free loan until right at the end of the period. But he can avail himself of a loan at 4 per cent interest. Many of these people, disillusioned as they are with the ballot system, not being able to have their names drawn and wishing, of course, to get a home while they are still able to enjoy it, embark on this 4 per cent loan. The Registrar sets out in detail in the report from which I quoted just what happens in the first year if a member of the society holding 2 shares takes a loan. The position gets worse as time goes by and it is interesting to note that, in the eleventh year, the interest rate is 56 per cent. A person is being forced to pay 56 per cent, in my opinion, as a result of false advertising. I think it is a matter that the Minister for Housing should examine because surely housing finance is an integral part of the owning of homes. 
The matter before the House is an important one. It is a matter of great urgency. I said a few weeks ago that the Government possibly should look at starter homes, homes for young people in their first few years of marriage. I notice that the Minister for Housing has made a number of statements already on this matter. It is possible that the Government may introduce legislation to make available to young couples a cheaper type of housing in the first few years of their marriage in order that they might be able to get on their feet and not be forced to pay exorbitant rents, never getting out of the woods, being forced to live in rented accommodation for life, and in most cases paying a higher rent than they can afford. This Bill will provide for my State alone $3. 5m to be spent in a very short period on the building of houses that otherwise would not be started in that period and I am convinced that this will go some of the way to relieve the great problem that exists. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  said that this Government can. not accept the whole blame. He is very charitable indeed, considering that the Government has been in office for only about 120 days. But certainly some governments must accept responsibility for the housing crisis that exists in Australia today. These include State governments of various political persuasions. Surely one of the things we should have learned over this period is that selling off all of our cheap rentable houses is not the solution to the problem. We must keep reserves of cheap rentable housing for people to move into. It is fair enough to assume that a person who, through the natural accretion of his income is able to accrue more morey than he would have had if he had not moved into the rented accommodation will, if he buys a block of land, elect to go ahead and build a home so that he can build up some equity. There will always be those people who, unfortunately, are never able to earn sufficient money to acquire a home of their own. These people are in another category. Possibly, these are the people who the honourable member for Bennelong thought should have homes made available at a reasonable rate. 
But there are other people involved and it is important that the housing authorities in the States consider this. Unfortunately, the State Liberal Government in New South Wales has done away with all emergency housing. This is a matter that I have taken up in deputations on a number of occasions and through many social welfare organisations. If a person in Sydney loses his house by fire or some other misadventure, there is nothing that the Housing Commissioner can do to accommodate him and his family. I am pleased to say that under a State Labor government, this was not the case; there was available some emergency housing for people. I have had such people approach me for accommodation. The Minister for Housing who is sitting at the table telephoned me on Boxing Day last year, to have a family whose house had been de-roofed in a violent gale accommodated in a council house which, fortunately, we were able to provide. The State authorities could do nothing on that day to accommodate them. It is a pretty pitiful situation when one finds that on an occasion such as that the St Vincent de Paul Society is the only organisation able to assist these people. The local council fortunately happened to have a vacant home at that time. We were the only people who could provide that family with some accommodation. 
So there is a great need for the sort of measure that the Minister for Housing has brought before this House tonight. I compliment the Minister on his swift action and the way that the Cabinet has assisted him and the Treasury in making money available, because I believe that in Australia today there could be no greater crisis than the crisis of providing people with proper homes and accommodation. I certainly hope that this measure will be carried unanimously and we can get on with the job of giving the Australian people what they are justly entitled to - homes of their own to live in. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bury)  adjourned. 
House adjourned at 9.41 p.m. until Tuesday, 1st May at 2 p.m. unless  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram addressed to each member of the House, fix an earlier date of meeting. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Is it now the policy of his Department that persons who have been temporarily residing in Australia on students' visas will be permitted to remain in Australia as permanent residents following the successful completion of their courses of study? If not, will the Minister give sympathetic consideration to permitting such persons to remain in Australia where the Minister is satisfied that suitable employment opportunities do not exist in the home countries of such persons? 
It has been very interesting to listen to the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and before him to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  on this subject because, after 23 years in government, every time the present Government presents to the Parliament some progressive legislation we hear them say: 'We were going to do that. It was our intention to do something about that'. But the inescapable fact in this case is that over the years the previous Government gave a particular advantage to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and showed a particular bias against the government airline. The previous Government would have liked to do away with the government airline, but it was not game to do so because over the years the support by the Australian people for the people's airline became well known and that action would not have been tolerated. 
Over the years Trans-Australia Airlines has tried, unsuccessfully, to compete with Ansett Airlines on an interstate basis, but the previous Government consistently refused to allow it to do so. Before that, when TAA wanted to purchase a plane the LiberalCountry Party Government would not allow it to purchase them until Ansett was prepared to purchase the same plane. TAA had to wait. At all times TAA has been unable to compete on fair terms with Ansett Airlines. Let me instance one case. It has been well known around Sydney for years that Ansett Airlines receives freight at airline charges to be sent to Melbourne and other places. Although the freight can be transported to Melbourne by road overnight, people have to pay airline costs to have goods transported from Sydney to Melbourne. The goods are loaded on to express semi-trailers at the terminal near Mascot airport and transported overnight to Melbourne. Of course, TAA is not entitled to be in the business of road transport and it has to transport its goods by plane. 
If the former Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was sincere in what he said, perhaps he will tell us why, on 7 occasions over the last 5 years, his Government refused TAA the right to operate between Perth and Darwin, even though it was not an intrastate activity. This Bill seeks to put on some basis of equilibrium the rights of the people's airline - TAA - which has been such a successful venture. I assume that this offends the free enterprise ambitions of honourable members opposite, but the Bill will give the people's airline - the airline that has served this country so well over the years - the right to compete on the same basis as its competitor. I can see no reason why the Government should apologise for this. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  made a great song and dance about what appears in the platform of the Australian Labor Party. Let me say this: The Australian Labor Party has a platform. It makes no apology for that. It is a democratically decided platform which is freely available to all people and which was freely available before the people made their decision last December. The 'Australian' newspaper today says that the 2 key pamphlets, the Federal constitution and the official party platform, of the Liberal Party are not available to anybody. Not only are they not available, but also one cannot find out whether there is any platform setting out the aims and aspirations of the Liberal Party. The article says that the pamphlets will not be available until February or March next year. So, while the honourable member for Griffith is having a go at the Labor Party for what it is prepared to put before the people of Australia, he should remember that his own Party is not prepared to place before the people what it has in mind. 
The reason for such a hullabaloo from honourable members opposite is that their great benefactor,  Sir Reginald  Ansett, is highly offended by the thought that this Bill may introduce into his business some competition that he does not want. Over the past 2 decades he has had a pretty fair run and he does not want to see the government airline put on a basis where it might be able to compete freely and provide a very good service for the Australian people. So much for the crocodile tears of the Opposition! It would defend  Sir Reginald  no matter what the situation happened to be,, as it has done over the years. All the Government is doing now is - as the Opposition freely admits it wanted to do - placing TAA on a fair competitive basis with the other airline that operates in Australia. 
It has long been recognised that local government is in urgent need of additional finance. Over the years the traditional functions of local government have changed considerably from building roads and providing kerbing and guttering, of controlling sub-divisions and of supervising building operations. It has now entered the wider role of providing welfare, which is urgently needed in the Australain community. It might be thought and properly argued that local government has now reached an age and a measure of power, independence and influence sufficient to enable it to carry out its wider community responsibilities. It might also be thought that there is a proper way in which local government can raise its finance through the traditional channels through which it has been able to raise it for years. But it is a wellknown fact, and well known throughout local government in Australia, that the rating system of raising finance for local government has reached saturation point where people cannot afford to pay any more money by way of rates and so it is necessary, with the wider powers that local government has had to assume, that local government bodies be able to find additional sources of revenue. It is interesting to note that in government receipts for the period 1967-68 to 1971-72 Commonwealth receipts increased by 61 per cent and those of the States by 63 per cent, whereas local government receipts increased by only 37.5 per cent. I think that when one considers the additional outgoings of local government one must concede that local government is the poor relation in relation to finance that is available in the 3 tiers of government in Australia. 
There is an implication in the Act which I think is desirable because local government areas were designed away back, possibly a century ago or shortly afterwards, on some neighbourhood affinity between people. They do not bear any resemblance to the needs of a modern local government area. It is implied in this legislation that local government has some responsibility in this regard. It is interesting to note that there are 900 local government areas in Australia. Many of these are very small areas which do not properly provide the functions that one would anticipate local government should provide today. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  made some reference to the attitude of the New South Wales State Government to areas of local government. That Government has to be given a great deal of credit because I think it was the first government in the Commonwealth to set up 9 areas of association for planning purposes in regions throughout New South Wales. I think it is commendable that it took the initiative to bring those regions together so that they might at least have some say in planning within the areas concerned as local people are entitled to have. It is also interesting to note that the New South Wales Government appointed a former Under-Secretary of the Department of Local Government in New South Wales,  Mr Barnett,  to a very expert committee of people. In fact it would be very doubtful whether there has ever been a committee comprising more people who are better qualified to look into the role of local government in New South Wales. That committee will be reporting to that State Government in the near future. 
It is fairly obvious from the statements that it has made and from the deliberations and the evidence that it has gathered that it is looking to larger local government areas with a view to the compounding of areas which previously had been small councils into large councils. I think the need for this is very obvious. If the Leader of the Australian Country Party thinks that this is not desirable then he and also the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  are in conflict with the people who are regarded as being the most knowledgeable people in Australia on these matters. At the second national seminar on the needs of local government which was held in the national capital about this time last year many prominent people attended to present papers in relation to local government. It is generally conceded by those who attended the seminar or read reports of it that there is a great need for a rationalisation of areas of local government.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell said that a conference of State Ministers for Local Government in 1971 had expressed the following beliefs: 
Additional financial resources are essential for Local Government; 
that as Local Government is the responsibility of State Governments the annual reimbursement grants of income tax from the Commonwealth to the States should include an element of contribution to Local Government finances. 
His Honour went on to amplify that statement. There were many others who held that view. It is also interesting to read from Richards on the new local government system. This relates to the position in Great Britain. The grants title commission has operated in Great Britain and honourable members will be aware that the system of government in that country is not the 3-tier system of government that we have in Australia. There is some difference. But the national Government has recognised for many years the need at the local level to provide this sort of bridging finance. In writing about this Richards said: 'Every benefit involves cost'. He went on to say: 
. subsidies are paid to relieve poverty but not to relieve minute organisation. 
So there is a great responsibility on local government to look into its own situation and to do something about it. I am rather amazed that Opposition supporters can stand up in this place and make some of the claims that they do make in view of requests by the Australian Local Government Association. I think that every honourable member would have received before the last general elections from his mayor or shire  president  or whoever was the local government leader in his area a booklet asking the Government to make finance directly available from the Commonwealth to local government in order that it might carry out its functions properly. 
It is interesting to hear the Leader of the Australian Country Party when he becomes very critical of the fact that this Government will give money to local government and that it will do so, as he said - which of course is not correct - directly without passing the money through the State governments. This is not the case. The money will go to the States. Admittedly the needs will be examined by a Commonwealth department but the money will be paid through the States. If honourable members look at the Aged Persons Homes Act 1954 they will notice that the Government of the day whose supporters now sit on the Opposition side of this House expressly excluded local government from being able to receive any benefit. If we look at the 1967 Act we will find that the previous Government changed the Act and it expressly stated that this money could be paid direct to local government, not through the State governments. It could be paid directly without any reference whatsoever to a State government. So the principle that the Commonwealth could make money directly available without any reference whatsoever to the State governments was well established by the people who are now trying to criticise this Government for doing what the Australian Local Government Assaciation had asked the Government to do for many years - to my knowledge since 1960. The Association had been completely ignored by the previous Government. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made, in his ministerial capacity, direct subsidies available to his own local government area in the form of a subsidy to a welfare officer. It was all kept very quiet because there were plenty of councils throughout Australia which were employing social workers and social workers were not entitled to a subsidy. But the Warringah Shire Council was able to attract from the Commonwealth Government a part subsidy towards the salary of a welfare officer. The Leader of the Australian Country Party also made reference to a country council, the Gloucester Shire Council in New South Wales. It is a well known fact in local government in New South Wales that there had been - I say this without intending to give offence - a lack of management in that the Gloucester Shire Council had for a number of years not increased its rates. So there was a disproportionate or an abnormal increase in rates on one occasion because it was of great concern to the inspector of accounts in local government in New South Wales and to the Minister for Local Government in that State that the council together with one other rural local council in New South Wales had got into a financial position from which it was almost unable to extract itself. It is quite unfair of the Leader of the Australian Country Party to take this example and to say: 'You know, this is the typical situation'. It is not the typical situation at all. lt is a very abnormal situation. 
I compliment the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on their initiative in doing what the Australian Local Government Association and 900 councils throughout Australia have asked the Government to do. That is to make money available to them. This is only a first step in a process of bringing local government into its proper perspective as the third tier of government. Other moves will be made. When the constitutional convention is held later this year there will be direct representation from local government and they will be asking for direct representation at meetings of the Australian Loan Council so that this inequity that has existed over all these years when councils have not been able to get proper loan money to carry out their functions and to provide for the needs of their areas will be removed. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has stated and the Prime Minister has said in a speech that the purposes of this Bill is a topping up process. It is the same process as the Commonwealth Grants Commission has provided to the States since 1933. Since 1933 those States which were at a disadvantage with the other States were able to get money from this Government directly in order that some people might have no unfair advantage over other people in Australia and that everybody might have an equal share of the wealth that is available. This is the whole purpose of this Bill. Those who have been involved in local government will know that there are plenty of areas, particularly those that have rapidly developed over the post war years, that are urgently in need of some additional financial assistance to enable them to improve the standard of the roads, kerbing and guttering, drainage and the other works that are so urgently needed. I commend the Bill to the House. I think it is a move in the right direction. Certainly it is an ambitious move and it will present some problems. The Government does not deny that, and I do not think that anybody could properly concede that it will not present some problems. However, the Government will attack the problems. No doubt when the Commonwealth Grants Commission Bill was introduced in 1933 it was seen that it would present problems too. But these problems are not insurmountable, and certainly the Government will work to see that the Bill equitably distributes the money that is available in the areas where it is needed. As I have said, I think this Bill is a move in the right direction. It will be hailed by local government as the first breakthrough of any significance it has had in the last 2 decades. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Can the Prime Minister, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, inform the House what assistance Australia is able to give to the 6 African nations where 6 million people are facing death by famine or thirst? 
Can the Minister for Housing inform the House what action he is able to take to assist in overcoming the serious industrial situation existing in the building industry in New South Wales? 
The purpose of this Bill has been well covered by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  in his second reading speech and by other honourable members who have spoken in the debate. To the 93,000 families now on the waiting list of the various State housing commissions, or whatever they are called in the respective States, this probably is the most important Bill that will come before this Parliament. It also represents for this Government one of the major items of expenditure. When one considers the money spent over the years by the Commonwealth Government and also the aspirations of the present Government to provide people with housing, it is not inconceivable that$ 1,000m may be required over the next 5 years to provide housing for people in urgent need of it. This money will be lent at a much lower rate of interest than was the policy of the previous Government in an endeavour to come as close as possible to providing people with housing and meet the aim of the United Nations which is that people should pay only 20 per cent of their income for shelter. 
The Government is concerned about infusing this very large amount of money into the economy. While it will make the economy buoyant, undoubtedly it will also have some inflationary trends. There is a great need for private enterprise to have some consideration in this regard, not only because of the inflationary trend but also because there are such enormous demands on building materials and the services of building workers generally. In 1967 about$1 44m was spent on building commercial premises throughout the cities of Australia. Last year the figure rose to $ 1,043m and goodness knows how much will be spent this year. The insurance companies and other people who are trying to diversify the enormous reserves that they have accumulated have misread the situation, particularly in the city of Sydney with which I am familiar. There the cost of rental accommodation for office premises and commercial premises is falling sharply, so much so that it is freely predicted - I think correctly predicted - that we will have an abundance of such accommodation in the centre of Sydney. There is a great need for the building industry to understand that this is the position and to divert its resources into the sector of the industry that so urgently needs assistance. That, of course, is the housing sector. That is a responsibility that the industry owes to the 70,000 young people who will be married each year in this great country. 
I wish to make only a few remarks but 1 want to refer to the dedication of the Minister for Housing and to that of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in attacking this great problem facing the Australian Government, the problem of providing housing, particularly for the low income group of people in our community. Since this Government took office last December and these honourable gentlemen being elected to the Ministry they have tackled this problem with a great deal of zeal and enterprise. I believe that they have brought radical policies to government, policies that will overcome the problems that seemed to be quite beyond the ability of the previous Government. 
I have said before in this House that as part of this endeavour to provide housing there is a very great need for the building industry to took at new methods of technology. Over 100 years ago people were placing brick upon brick as a method of providing shelter for people in this country. Today we are still using basically the same building practices as were used hundreds of years ago. The industry generally has to look at this problem and try to overcome it. There is a great need for houses to be made in factories out of more modern materials so that they will be more adaptable and more suitable to our modern way of life. There is a very urgent need for the Government to give some incentive to people to look at new methods and to participate in this way. 
It seems, however, that the Opposition will never learn. I listened to the speeches made during this debate, particularly that of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  last night, and it seems that the position will be allowed to go on and on if the Opposition has its way. Fortunately it does not have its way. The Opposition seems to regard everything as a matter of political expediency instead of political responsibility. It is an unarguable fact that the policies adopted by the previous Government and the State governments have contributed to the enormous housing problem that faces us today. I refer to the practice of selling a great proportion of the low income houses made available from public money over recent years. This Government realises that probably it would be a popular political move to sell houses to people because that is what the people want. The Australian Labor Party would hope to see eventually that everybody has the right to own his own house. However, at this time it would be completely wrong for the Government to adopt that policy. This Government is attacking the problem in the manner in which it should be attacked. 
In New South Wales today the Housing Commission has 22,700 houses available for rental and, on its estimation, it cost SI 27m to provide those houses. If those houses are sold it will cost over $500m to replace them and that would have to come out of public moneys. Therefore the policy adopted by the Minister for Housing is correct, although it has not been freely accepted by the responsible Ministers in the various States - probably in all States. The States have to amend their thinking. The States will have to accept the political responsibility they should accept if we are to overcome this problem to any degree. In any case, it is interesting to note that under the provisions of this Bill 30 per cent of the houses can be sold throughout all States, and in some States the proportion is greater because over the years they have made certain commitments and these have to be rationalised. The Minister has taken them into account. 
In addition 30 per cent of the homes will be made available for sale through the Home Builders Account advances. Of course this will be through banks, terminating building societies and whoever else a State Government uses to disburse these funds. I was very interested to hear the honourable member for Indi last night state that if Victoria, the State he represents, did not accept the Minister's recommendations it could get Commonwealth money only at a higher interest rate and this would cost Victoria a considerable amount of money. Let me tell him that under this Government Victoria will benefit to the amount of about $1.5m because of the reduction that we have given it in the interest rate which it has paid over the years and which has increased over the years since this scheme commenced. 
I want to make some brief reference to the policies of housing commissions, particularly in New South Wales. Over a long period the New South Wales Housing Commission provided emergency housing. When I speak of emergency housing I mean true emergency housing that could be made available at an instant's notice when a crisis arose, whether it be flood, bush fire, some domestic dispute or something else that might cause a family to be immediately evicted and left without proper shelter. Over a number of years this housing was provided but was done away with some years ago when the Government in New South Wales was changed. This has caused a considerable embarrassment. I do not doubt that it has caused embarrassment to members on both sides of this House when people have come to their offices with problems of this nature. Certainly the Minister, as I have said, approached me one Boxing Day when I was shire  president  of the shire in which I live to provide emergency housing for people who had their house de-roofed in a gale and had absolutely nowhere to go. The New South Wales Housing Commission says that it can provide emergency housing but it takes a considerable period for it to become available. I think that there is a great need for the Commission, in view of the revised policies of the Government and the fact that the State is so much better off under the deal that it is getting from this Government than it was under the deal it got in previous years, once again to establish some real emergency housing in which people who find themselves in the position I have mentioned might be accommodated. 
One other important aspect of this Bill which has never been provided for in any other Bills of this nature and which makes a significant advance, is that the States through their housing authorities may provide to local government areas bridging finance so that community facilities can be provided. This is a significant advance because in the past when we have built public housing that is what we have done: We have built public housing with no consideration whatsoever for the community in which the people had to live, the environment in which they had to live. This Bill allows the housing authorities - and I hope that each of the States will exercise its prerogative in this regard - to provide to the local government area responsible the bridging finance so that it can immediately provide the community amenities that are so urgently needed if we are to have communities rather than groups of housing for people to live in. 
I commend this Bill to the House. It is progressive legislation that will over a period of years overcome the enormous problem that wc have in the Australian community. I realise that people would like houses that they can own. We all appreciate this, but at this point of time that is the wrong attitude to adopt. We must provide a large pool of low rental housing that will be available to those people who are on the lower incomes. 
Has the Minister for the Capita] Territory had the opportunity to view the advertising on the Canberra buses? Is he aware that on many occasions persons in Canberra have been prosecuted for displaying small advertising signs? 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen the letter written to the Adelaide 'Advertiser' by the former Minister for Health, the honourable member for Barker? If so, does he agree with the proud contention of the honourable member for Barker that his Government's approach to health care was the best in the world? Finally, does he agree with the judgment of the honourable member for Barker that the Australian Labor Party has adopted the Scotton and Deeble health proposals with indecent haste when, firstly, the Government has not accepted them yet and, secondly, the Australian Labor Party and the Minister have worked on health reforms for at least the past 6 years? 
I support the motion of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and congratulate him on the Budget. I oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  For the first time in the past 2 decades a Budget has been introduced that is not designed to woo the voters of particular sections of the community or to provide unfair privileges to other sections of the community but to provide for broad overall national development. 
I will reply to the honourable member's interjection in a moment. This Budget gives great emphasis to the areas of education, health, social security and welfare, housing and community amenities, culture and recreation, Aboriginal advancement, sport, tourism, aid for States, transport and communications. In fact, it can be said rightly that this Budget has had a less unfavourable reaction from all sections of the community, including the Press, than any Budget introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government. 
When one looks back 12 months to the time of the last Budget - to the tremendously depressed conditions and the lack of general confidence in the then Government by all sections of the community - one sees stark contrast indeed to the conditions of general prosperity that exist today. The remarks of one noted economist are relevant. He said: 'Its philosophy is clear. The Government is intent on removing some of the gross injustices in the existing framework of taxes and concessions to industry'. This Budget breaks new ground in the areas of expenditure designed to overcome the tremendous pressures of life in our cities, after years of tedious repetition of Budgets that showed no imagination and no ability to meet the needs of this rapidly changing social environment. It is a matter of getting our priorities in order and I believe that this Budget does just that. 
Insufficient publicity has been given to some of the Labor Government's policies particularly in the area of education. The Government has endeavoured to give every Australian the right to a full education, irrespective of social position or family income. If we are to overcome poverty and grave social problems, these are some of the areas where significant impacts must be made. Education is one area which the former Government tried to use to great political advantage by giving particular advantage to some sections of the community. This Government has increased education expenditure in this its first year by $404m, which represents an increase of 92 per cent in expenditure on education. Some reference should be made to the frivolous amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition last evening.  His  amendment reads: 
. 'this House expresses disapproval of the Budget because it is economically irresponsible in that: 
with inflationary pressures intense it rails to adopt any policy to bring inflation under control; 
Inflation is a world wide problem. It is a problem that the Leader of the Opposition, having the wealth of knowledge that he claims to have on this subject, had ample opportunity to do something about when he held the position of Treasurer. In fact, he does make some claim that during the time he was Treasurer inflation was reduced over a period. As I indicated previously, one does not need a very long memory to recall the impoverished conditions of this country under his fiscal policies. The second point in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition reads: 
with resources already under strain it applies wrong economic principles by overloading resources further by expansionary public sector spending; 
The great bulk of this Government's spending in this Budget in relation to the public sector is related to education, social security and housing. As I indicated previously, this Government intends to spend $404m more on education this year. Of course, the greater amount of expenditure in this area will add no burden to resources. I refer next to housing. Despite what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  had to say, there is an acute shortage of housing available in Australia today. This Government intends to increase its spending on housing by $41 1m in this year, representing an increase of 324.3 per cent on the spending of the previous Government. Surely the honourable member will concede that these are absolutely priorities, as he has conceded already in relation to social security. The third point made by the Leader of the Opposition in his amendment reads: 
it permits the tax burden to accelerate to an unprecedented level; 

 Mr Speaker, you will remember that during the debate last night the Leader of the Opposition made a number of comparisons with the existing tax scales. I think really, this point needs little comment because tax scales were the invention of his Government. If they are unsatisfactory they reflect the general incompetence of the people who introduced them. They are the scales that were used over preceding years, and the comparisons used last night by the Leader of the Opposition were as valid last year as they are valid today. The Leader of the Opposition's fourth point reads: 
it is a further step in the attack on the federal system of government by Labor which aims to centralise all decisions in Canberra; 
The Prime Minister has often been credited with being the greatest centralist in the Australian Parliament. Actually nothing could be further from the truth. He is one of the greatest advocates of regionalisation in Australia today. I do not think anybody could 'argue with the proposition that there are some functions at present being carried out at State level which could better be carried out by a central government or a regional government. Possibly the greatest tragedy of Australian politics was the formation of the States with sovereign rights. What was the stand taken by members of the Opposition parties when the country electorates throughout Australia - those in the Riverina area, the New England area and the Townsville area - wanted new state regions? Where did honourable members opposite stand on that issue? In these areas did they back the people to the hilt and say that it was wrong that the States should have sovereign rights, that the people they represented should have the right to have in their own areas a government which would take some responsibility for the area and which would have some regional association with it? What did honourable members opposite do when the New South Wales Government put up that fictitious referendum on the New England area which involved the whole of Newcastle? What stand did they take in relation to the New South Wales Government's proposal which everybody knew could not succeed because there was little common interest between Newcastle and the other areas? 
I might remind honourable members that the very system of government on which this House is patterned provides for no State system of government. In England there is only the local or regional systems and the central government. Possibly it is time, after a century of Federal government in Australia, that we should look at the whole of the arrangements of the States system and see whether there are not better ways of arranging the community of interest between areas. Where was the present Opposition last year when local government throughout Australia asked the . various political parties to declare themselves on the Constitutional Convention? Where was the Liberal Party? Where was the Country Party? They were not supporting the local government bodies in their areas; there was not one statement from them of full support. Only the then Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister, gave a direct undertaking that he would not participate in any constitutional convention unless local government were represented in its own right. 
Is the Minister for Air aware that there is no national aircraft museum and that many of the sole remaining examples of various types of service aircraft adorn the entrances of our defence establishments? Has the Minister any plans to establish such a museum for the preservation of our aviation history? 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen reports in the Press this morning about an Aboriginal child being returned to her natural parents at a Northern Territory Aboriginal settlement? Are the reports correct? When did he first learn of the matter, and what action is he taking? 
This Bill is probably one of the most important Bills ever to come before this Parliament. The Bill transfers to the Australian Government the responsibility of the States relating to the affairs of the Aboriginal people in this country. We are dealing with the most disadvantaged group of people in the Australian community. We are dealing with a group of people who have the highest birth rate of any group of people in the world. So we are dealing with a continually growing problem in connection with which a great deal has not been achieved by the States in recent years. A great deal of licence was given to the 2 previous speakers from the Opposition side in allowing them to traverse some of the things that they dealt with and I feel that a reply is necessary because both of them made some reference to recent Press statements concerning the turtle and crocodile farms in the Torres Strait and northern Australia area. 
I am amazed that 2 people who have been supporters of the Government for the period of time that the previous Government was in office know nothing about this. For the first year of the 3 years of operation so far this was a research project funded through the Australian National University; but for the next 2 years it was directly the responsibility of the Government. It was directly under the control of the then Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts but the 2 previous speakers on the Opposition side said they know nothing about it. That is understandable because they took absolutely no interest in what was going on. Whatever circumstances the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  has found himself in in relation to these matters was a direct inheritance of the lack of interest of the previous Government. The project was well under way when the present Minister took over his portfolio. Over 100 turtle farmers were employed. The expenditure for this project that was put forward to the new Minister when he assumed office amounted to $1.4m for this year. I fail to see how people who have supposedly taken so much interest in these matters could not know that for 2 years it had been the responsibility of the previous Government to know what was going on in those areas and to superintend what was taking place. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  referred to the fact that  Senator Georges  was  chairman  of the boards of 2 of the 3 companies that had been set up to try to rationalise the problems associated with turtle and crocodile farming in the Torres Strait and in the northern part of Australia. Firstly, let me say that  Dr Bustard  was never  chairman  of the board to which reference was made. An elementary inquiry would have ascertained that. In fact the whole contribution by the honourable member for Herbert seemed to centre around a series of unending questions to the Minister. I suggest that if he likes to spend 10 minutes one evening in the Minister's office the Minister could answer every one of his questions very precisely and very quickly. It might be a great advantage if the whole Opposition arranged a seminar one evening so that the Minister may tell them what is going on because it is very obvious that honourable members opposite know very little about what the previous Government did in the handling of Aboriginal affairs. 
It needs to be repeated.  Dr Bustard  was never the  chairman  of the board.  Senator Georges,  myself and a  Mr Neill  were appointed by the Minister to the board. There is only one member of the board who receives any remuneration for his services to the board. The  chairman  receives no remuneration. He has to devote a great deal of time to its work. This was especially so over the formation months. He has to devote a great deal of time in the direct administration of the company and also in the field - as the other members of the board do - to see precisely what is going on and to try to rationalise this legacy that we inherited from the previous Government. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred to some part coloured city slickers who, he contended, had been going around making representations and were resented. People in Australia today who are of Aboriginal descent are starting to proclaim their Aboriginality. They are proud now of the fact that they are Aboriginals and they look to this Government to do something about the impoverished and shocking conditions in which they have had to live for many years, especially during the period of time when the previous Government was in power. In the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party gov ernment since the Second World War, when the country was progressing culturally and when its standard of living was progressing, there was ample opportunity for that Government to demonstrate its great concern for the Aboriginal people. Let me say to the honourable member for the Northern Territory that these part coloured city slickers have been largely responsible for drawing the attention of the people to the impoverished circumstances in which coloured people have been living. 
I do not know why they are not accepted by Aboriginal people in the north. However, I would suggest that there is a great deal of concern amongst Aboriginal people generally because of the conditions m which they live and they treat everybody, including the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  and every member of any government with some suspicion because, over the years, promises have been made to them which have not been carried out. This Government now is trying to rationalise the situation. 
The Aboriginal people certainly have the right to have a national Aboriginal consultative council. There is very little chance, except in the Senate, where they now have one Aboriginal representative, that the Aboriginal people will ever attain representation in this House because of the dispersion of their numbers. 
Well, they might win one seat in Queensland, but I do not know that they have a great chance because of the difficulty of winning representation to this House under the franchise that exists at the moment. So there is a need for these people to be able to come together in an unfragmented manner, not in the way that they are now. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs receives representations from small groups of Aboriginal people all over Australia, but there is a need for these people to come together and to get their priorities in order and to speak with one voice when they ask the Minister for the expenditure of funds which this Government will provide in an endeavour to establish the Aboriginal people in their rightful position in the Australian community. 
The Commonwealth Government is to assume these' responsibilities from the States. I do not want to detract from anything that the States have done because some of the States have made very progressive movements with the limited funds that have been made available to them by the Commonwealth. But there is a need now to have a co-ordinated approach to the Aboriginal problem. It is the intention of this Government to establish the Commonwealth presence in centres all over Australia so that we might be able to get the priorities right; so that not necessarily those people who make the most sound will get the most action but that we might apply the money that is available from the Government in the right direction; so that everybody might get equal share of the money; so that we might be able to build houses in the places where houses should be built; so that children might be educated in the places where they should be educated; so that we might provide employment for those people where they need employment. All these things are necessary and are progressing at a pace. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the committee which works with him are most anxious that the regional presence of the Australian Government should be established as quickly as possible in centres throughout Australia, that we should co-operate with those State agencies which are able to fulfil their function as an agent for the Commonwealth in a particular State, and so that we might be able to gain value from the expertise of the people who have served the States in the role of Aboriginal welfare officers so that these people might be incorporated into the Australian Government organisations in order that we might benefit from the wealth of knowledge that they have available. All these things -will be done. 
However, it is necessary first to have the States hand over their control to the Commonwealth so that the Commonwealth can proceed. 
There are other areas of Aboriginal welfare about which the Government is gravely concerned. I want to say at this time that, while the Australian Country Party has never had a Prime Minister- 
In recent times. 
For one week, was it? I am sorry. 
He was not the Prime Minister for any worthwhile period of time. If he was the Prime Minister and did represent the point of view of the Country Party, he never made statements such as those of the 2 former Liberal Prime Ministers, the sentiments of which are contrary to the remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. The honourable member said that this Government was forcing the Aboriginal people into an urban situation. Both the previous Liberal Prime Ministers, contrary to the statement made by Commonwealth and State Ministers after their 1965 conference, said that they appreciated that there was a need to let the Aboriginal people determine for themselves in what direction they should go. Many of these people will elect to stay in the tribal conditions in which their ancestors have lived for the past 20,000 years. Many of them, because they have had to try to assimilate and integrate into the white community, will have to be accommodated in the same types of conditions in which white Australian people live in the cities and towns around Australia. Both of the previous Liberal Prime Ministers appreciated this fact and, when they were in power, they made statements that were contrary to the views expressed in the 1965 statement of Commonwealth and State Ministers. I think that in this regard there is little difference between the attitudes of both of those gentlemen and the thoughts of the present Australian Government. We think that this is entirely necessary. 
There are a number of things that we must do and a number of decisions which must be made. Some decisions are going to be difficult to make and we will need the co-operation of the entire Government in making them. There are Aboriginal people scattered throughout towns around Australia in which employment opportunities cannot be provided for them, and on this point I agree with the honourable member for the Northern Territory when he says that we must encourage the Aboriginal people and must provide for them the right to work and the places to work. These people want to be profitably employed. They do not want to be parasites on the community, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory described them. These people are as keen to work as are white Australian people. They want to be given the opportunity to work. It may be necessary to relocate quite large groups of these people away from some of these towns where they have traditionally lived for many years - on the outskirts of the towns, in reserves, in humpies or even in houses of some sort or another in the towns themselves - and to bring them to places where employment opportunities can be provided. This is going to be a difficult decision to make because, like most people, they resist change and, because they probably have never been out of the town in which they were born, their horizons are very narrow. It will be very difficult to convince them that probably the best thing for their welfare is for them to be located where we can provide these opportunities for them. These are some of the problems we will have to face when we establish officers in these areas. The regional officers will be able to establish programs for the people. Wherever we can provide job opportunities for them we should be able to provide housing for them, whether it is in the town in which they now live or somewhere else. 
Education is one of the paramount problems of the Aboriginal people today. Many of the Aboriginal people - in fact the great majority of them - who live on the outskirts of our towns, especially in New South Wales, have not had the opportunity of a full and proper education. In many instances Aboriginal children who attend school where there is a predominance of white children have never obtained the right education opportunities, frequently finishing up in opportunity classes and never able to progress. It is quite interesting to note that the standard of passes of the Aboriginal children invariably is much higher in schools where there is a predominance of Aboriginal children than in schools where there is a small percentage of Aboriginal children. So there is a great need for these children, who may come from an illiterate family, whose mother and father have had no formal education, who possibly live in a humpy with earth floors and no water or electricity laid on to it, who are without the advantage of a television set, a radio or even a clock in the house, as is frequently the case, and who cannot take school books home because there is nowhere to put them where the smaller children will not get at them and destroy them, to be brought into a pre-school situation, as has been mentioned by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley Brown).  We members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on 
Aboriginal Affairs saw some of these preschools in operation. It is too early yet to judge what the final outcome will be because most of these pre-schools have been in operation only in the last couple of years. But it is a fact that in the infants section of these schools, where we members of Committee were able to speak to the teachers, there has been a great improvement in the standard of the children. If this is to continue at the primary and secondary levels the same opportunity has to be provided, but there are too few of these kindergartens now available. So there is a great need, firstly, to house the people so that the children, when they come home from school, can have the advantage that other children have and, secondly, to provide pre-schools to give them the opportunity to reach the standard that is necessary for them to start on their endeavours in education. 
The other matter that causes us a great deal of concern is health. The honourable member for Mitchell covered this in large detail. No matter where one goes, it is evident that the health of the Aboriginal population generally is much lower than that of white populations anywhere in our community. This is so for a number of reasons. Of course, one of the greatest reasons is the poverty of the people themselves. The children cannot get the right nutriment and value from their food because they are not getting the right type of food to provide these things for them. This impoverished situation exists not only in Aboriginal families but also in white families which are in similar positions, but, of course, it is much more predominant in Aboriginal families. So there is a great need for us to be able to improve their quality of life and their health so that the children will have an equal opportunity and so that when they grow to adults they can grow to healthy adults and in turn will be able to raise their children. 
There is a need for an education program as well as a need to try to improve their general standard of living so that they can appreciate the need for the proper types of food for their children. A typical example is the one that has been well reported in the Press over the last few days. On Palm Island off the Queensland coast almost the whole of the younger population has been suffering from a number of complaints, including worms, which of course contributes to the malnutrition of the children. There also has been a gastroenteritis epidemic there. The people contract this so easily because of their condition of health. The Government hopes to achieve all its aims by taking over responsibility for the Aboriginal people, with the active and vigorous support of the many people who have been concerned about this problem for years, but with a Department that is having great difficulty in being able to establish itself in the short time it has been given because of the urgency of this matter. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works. Is it intended to amalgamate the Departments of Housing and Works? If so, what advantages could accrue to the home building industry? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the likely campaign by local government in New South Wales to win public support to assist in its efforts to gain loan funds direct from the Federal Government, as reported in the Sydney Morning Herald' of Saturday, 13 October, will the Prime Minister confer again with the State Premiers before holding a referendum into this matter and will he discuss the matter with the chief antagonist, the Premier of New South Wales? 
I rise to speak on this matter of health insurance which I consider to be probably the most important social legislation that this Government will introduce into this place. It has been grossly and irresponsibly misrepresented by a number of organisations, the worst of which has probably been the Australian Medical Association. 
Will you be quiet? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The last six or so speakers have been heard in relative silence. I hope that the same courtesy will be extended to the honourable member for Cook. 
The AMA has misrepresented this scheme. I was very interested to read, I think in last Friday's 'Canberra Times', a statement by  Dr Repin  that the Government had altered a number of things in the scheme and that this just showed the stand that was taken by the AMA, of course, was a correct stand. Let me say at this time that of all those who contributed to the great amount of debate and discussion that has gone on since the Green Paper of the Health Insurance Planning Committee was introduced into this Parliament - I remind the House that this was one of the few occasions on which a scheme has been presented to the Parliament and to the people who are interested in it - one of the poorer contributions was that of the Australian Medical Association. Many people who are associated with health care in Australia were prepared to come forth to debate and discuss the matter sensibly and to give up a great deal of their time to see whether this health scheme, whilst it may not have been exactly what they would have chosen themselves, was something that would be to the benefit of the Australian people. 
It was only in the latter times of the public debate that the Australian Medical Association condescended to discuss with people involved in the Government any irregularities that it might have seen in the scheme, and I must say that its contribution was the least of all the contributions. Yet its members have decided to embark on a vast propaganda campaign against the Government's proposed health scheme. One can only imagine, because of its slowing down now following publication of the proposal contained in the White Paper on the Australian health insurance program which has been tabled in the Parliament and the impending legislation that will be placed before the Parliament, that it did not get the anticipated result from doctors and others to its fast funding scheme. 
Two things have been grossly misrepresented to the people of Australia, and that misrepresentation has been very apparent in the correspondence that other members and I have received. I refer to the health schemes in Great Britain and Canada. The British national health service has received a great deal of criticism in this country from people who evidently are bent on seeing its failure and many of whom do not truly appreciate the significance of the scheme. It seems to me that the scheme has been quite a satisfactory one. Indeed, as time goes by, the scheme is improving. But there is no relationship between the scheme that the Australian Government is presenting to the Australian Parliament at this time and the British national health scheme. The 2 schemes are entirely different. They bear no comparison whatsoever. For example, the English scheme is a per capita scheme. It is based on a patient register. In other words, a medical practitioner is allowed to enrol up to a certain number of patients whom he is allowed to treat, and he gets a per capita payment for the number of people who appear on his register. The Australian scheme is exactly the opposite. It is different in every way. The general medical practitioner service here is based on doctors in private practice receiving a fee for service, and the Government's self insurance program is based exactly on this principle. In other words there will not be any change from the present practices of the general practitioner or from the right of people to choose their own practitioner. So the proposed scheme is exactly the same as the present scheme. 
The AMA has represented the British scheme to the people of Australia as being a dismal failure. It is interesting to see just what the 'Lancet' of 30 June this year said in relation to the British scheme. It said that the British national health service has 'reached full adulthood not without blemishes but is virile and popular and indispensible' and 'that in every country, developed and developing, the growth in the costs of health services threatens to get out of hand'. It went on: 
In the UK, the pace, judged by any of the several admittedly imperfect yardsticks is slower than elsewher 
So I think the first thing that should concern the Australian people is that in most countries, certainly in most Western developing countries, the costs of health services are taking too much of the national resources. We are spending far too much above what we ought to spend on these services. I thought that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  when speaking recently, made a very valid point, that is, that it is most unlikely that in various areas people are healthier or unhealthier than in other places. It is interesting to look at the United States system, the costs of which have spiralled out of all proportions in recent years. Milton Ferris in his article 'Crisis and Change in America's Health system' said this: 
It is a shocking fact that the United States has twice as many surgeons and twice as many surgical operations per capita as England and Wales, where surgeons are paid by salary. 
I think honourable members can form their own opinion on what Milton Ferris and the Minister were getting at. The fact of the matter is that an over-utilisation of medical services can occur, and this has been the case in the United States where the costs of health services are totally out of proportion with what they oght to be in relation to the nation's resources. 
The reason why conservative governments have not repealed them is that they are so successful, and the public demand them and will not be without them. I think I should refer to the Canadian program because there has been a great deal of criticism of the Canadian program. There has been a great deal of misrepresentation, and it is quite unfair to the system. It has been said that there has been a 30 per cent yearly increase in costing for the Canadian system. That is probably right with the inflationary trends we face. But the cost of the present Australian scheme rose from $276m in 1969 to $598m in 1973, an average yearly increase of 20 per cent. So the increase in the cost of the Australian scheme is far in excess of the increase in the cost of the Canadian system over that period of time I do not think that the Australian Medical Association should be holding the Canadian system to ridicule in relation to the cost factor when our own system is grossly worse than the Canadian system has been. 
In Canada there has been an average reduction in a physician's working week of 81 hours. Average daily patient contacts have fallen by about 9 per cent. So the scheme seems to be working. It seems to be producing a far better health service than one would anticipate from the scheme we have in Australia at present. Nevertheless the Australian Medical Association misrepresented the Canadian scheme in an article it published, and it was taken to task for doing so. The  President  of the Medical Society in Nova Scotia wrote to the Australian Medical Association in the following terms: 
I must say that we in Nova Scotia, and I believe generally throughout Canada are well satisfied with Medicare . . . Certainly we have had problems but we use effective communications to resolve them . . . To a considerable extent this article has misrepresented the situation in Canada, particularly in regard to Nova Scotia. 
He obviously does not hold the same opinion as the Australian Medical Association expressed. What the  President  of the Medical Society of Nova Scotia wrote goes to show that the Australian Medical Association, either being uninformed or intentionally, has misled not only the people of Australia but its own members by articles of the nature of that to which I have referred, which have been without any foundation whatsoever. I am quite sure that the proposed Australian scheme, which is not the same as either the English or the Canadian schemes, will be an outstanding succes 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Dr Jenkins)   - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to refer to a statement attributed to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  concerning the appointment of the former Federal Secretary of the Australian Labor Party to the staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I indicate at the outset that I can see nothing inconsistent or incorrect with the appointment of  Mr Young.  Indeed, I believe that it is important for the Australian Prime Minister to gather around him the best expertise that is available in any area. After all, one of the great problems facing industry, government and other areas of activity - the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  referred to some of the industrial problems that are prevalent in the community today - is the lack of communication. There is a great need for people to communicate. I believe that  Mr Young  will play an important role in this regard and make a significant contribution to the proper functioning of the Prime Minister's Department. 
With the present climate of industrial relations in Australia, with an inflationary trend and with wages possibly not able to keep pace with the trend, there is discontent in the community. There is a great need for people to thrash out these matters and that is the whole basis of our conciliation and arbitration system. The system is based on discussion, and I am quite sure that  Mr Young  will make a great contribution to the Australian Govern ment in this regard. What amazes me is the attack by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. After all, if one looks at the record of the previous Government in providing jobs for the girls and the boys, one sees a very significant list. As I was sitting here talking to my colleagues they wanted to add another twenty or thirty names to the list that I have compiled myself. 
The first person on the list is  Sir John  Spicer, who was a Liberal. He was appointed to the Commonwealth Industrial Court. The next is  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, who was appointed as High Commissioner to New Zealand. Then there is  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, who was appointed to the Metric Conversion Board. The next on the list is  Sir Denham  Henty, who was Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate and who was appointed to dozens of committees. Then there is  Sir Howard  Beale, who was appointed as Ambassador to the United States of America. Next there is  Mr Dan  Mackinnon, the former member for Corangamite, who was appointed as Ambassador to one of the South American countries - I think it was the Argentine. 
The next person on my list is  Sir Hubert  Opperman, the famous cyclist, who was appointed as Ambassador to Malta.  Mr Gordon  Freeth, upon his defeat at a general election, was appointed as Ambassador to Japan. The next on the list are  His Excellency Sir Paul  Hasluck, who is the present Governor-General, and Lord Casey who was a former Governor-General.  Mr Roger  Dean, when he was defeated for the seat of Robertson, was appointed as Administrator of the Northern Territory. Subsequently he was appointed to an Ambassador's position.  Mr Fred  Chaney, on his defeat in an election, was appointed Administrator of the Northern Territory. There is a classic example in the case of  Mr Ian  Allan, who honourable members will recall was the former member for Gwydir. He was not defeated; he had to get out. 
He had to make way for the Honourable Ralph Hunt who was then the  President  of the Australian Country Party.  Mr Ian  Allan was appointed to the War Graves Commission.  Mr Bill  Arthur, who was the former member for Barton, was appointed as an adviser to  Mr Gorton. Mr Peter  Brown, who was defeated for the seat of Kalgoorlie in the early 1960s, was appointed to Treasurer Holt's staff. The next person on the list is  Mr Frank  Davis, who retired from the seat of Deakin. He was appointed as  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. Percy Joske, a former member for the seat of Balaclava, was appointed to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Yes. I guarantee that the five or six Opposition members present in the chamber could add another 2 dozen names to the list. I think that Government supporters, if they exercised their minds, could add many more names. Many of the people I have mentioned have made a very significant contribution in their positions. Just because a person has served in government, I do not think means that he is not capable of rising to a higher position or of serving in a greater capacity. I fail to see why the Leader of the Australian Country Party should launch his attack if it is for no other purpose than to gain political advantage. If he wants to gain political advantage perhaps I could hand to the Press the extended list of names that my colleagues and I could compile. Over the 23 years of the former Government's administration, almost every member who was defeated or disposed of in some other way because it suited the political climate at the time, got another job. 
Has the Minister for Defence - (Honourable members interjecting) - 
Has the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development been drawn to an article in this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald'? Does the Minister consider that a Yes vote at the prices referendum on Saturday will encourage a black market in land? Does the Minister agree with  Mr R.  Ryko, the Managing Director of Parkes Development Pty Ltd - a large land development company - that it is unlikely that the recommendation will get off the ground? 
It is interesting to note the boycott, particularly by members of the Liberal Party, of this debate this evening. 1 do not suppose any Party at any time has had the opportunity to peruse and to- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)I made sure that the previous  speaker  in this debate was heard in silence, despite the interruptions of his colleagues. I would suggest to honourable gentlemen that they remain silent as this standard of order has been maintained during the speeches of honourable members who have spoken in this debate. (Quorum formed) 
It is interesting to note that in response to the call for a quorum one additional Liberal member came into the House making a total of 3 members from that Party in the House at the moment to participate in the debate on this vital Bill which the Liberals have consistently demanded the right to debate, lt is now worth noting that one of them has just walked out. The Liberals have demanded the right to debate this vital Bill yet they are not present in the chamber when the Bill is being debated. This shows the shallowness and hypocrisy of the Opposition in relation to this matter. 
One needs to be a member of this House for only a short time to understand that the Liberals know nothing about the subject of health and to realise that they have done no research on it. For instance, the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  who is trying to interject at the moment, made a statement about the Gross National Product of various countries. In view of the fact that he has had 6 months in which to do his research he could have at least got his figures right The honourable member in presenting his case said that 4 per cent of the GNP of Great Britain is being spent on the health services of that country. Yet, the Statistician's figures show, of course, that the true figure is 4.8 per cent If the honourable member continues to try to interject and wishes to dispute that fact I will incorporate in Hansard a table showing that the honourable member has made an  error  in his assumption. 
The honourable member can do so if he gets permission. However, I seek leave to incorporate the table in Hansard to have on record the fact that the honourable member did make a mistake. 
The Government enters this second session of the twenty-eighth Parliament determined to pursue with renewed vigour the policies for which it received a clear mandate. The unconstructive, ineffective and lacklustre Opposition refers to the great leaders of South-East Asia as oriental despots. I wonder to whom the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  specifically referred. Is it  President  Marcos or  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew? I challenge him now to stand up and say to whom he refers in that manner. I think that his behaviour is very typical of some of the attitudes of some of the members of the former Government. 
I had the opportunity today to peruse a publication called 'Joint Opposition Party Policy for 1949'  -  a very interesting document. What a disappointment it must be to some of the members who are now in Opposition and who were Opposition members at that time to see that the progressive policies that the Opposition had in those times were not implemented in the quarter of a century during which they were in government. I remember one policy very well. It was the 'Put Value Back into the ' policy. 
It was a winner in those days, but the then government never did it. I was interested to read on page 22 in the social services section these words: 
Australia still needs a contributory system of national insurance against sickness. 
Yet when the Government puts forward such proposals the Opposition opposes them. In 1949 this was the Opposition's policy. In a quarter of a century of government it never implemented those policies. Today it still opposes them. That is why honourable members opposite are still in Opposition. 
We have heard with repetition from a number of speakers about the inflationary situation of the country. They have blamed it on this Government. Let us put the matter in true perspective. Let us look at the position when this Government came to power. I was most interested to hear the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  in his contribution in this debate imply that the Government took no notice of Treasury advice which was offered to it. I wonder what the advice from the Treasury to the previous Government on revaluation was just prior to the last election. I wonder what pressure the Country Party brought to bear on the Government not to implement revaluation at that time. The House will well remember the 1971 Budget - the disastrous Budget that started this country on its inflationary trends. The 1972 Budget is a Budget we all would like to forget. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back to what occurred after that Budget. There were the queues of unemployed at the Commonwealth Employment Offices trying to get a job. There was the complete frustration of those involved in commerce when they could not get people to buy their goods. There was the total stagnation that existed in Australia just after that Budget and prior to the 1972 election. 
What was the position? What had happened? The Government had failed effectively to curb the great inflow of overseas capital which created such tremendous liquidity problems in 1973. The Government took no action whatsoever to do anything about the situation. I remind the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  that if he looks at the publication entitled 'Overseas Investment in Australia' which was issued in May 1972 he will see that the Treasury tried to tell the Government that this was happening. In the first paragraph on page 1 the Treasury said this to the Government: 
In particular, the very high level of capital inflow during the past 2 years has given rise to growing concern. 
But what did the Government do about it? It did nothing at all. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  made a great song and dance about what was done to try to curb these things. Let us look at the record of this Government since it came into power. On Treasury advice we carried out a revaluation which was urgently needed. We introduced a variable deposit system for overseas investment. We implemented tariff cuts. We established the Prices Justification Tribunal. We ordered expenditure cuts as set out in the Coombs report. We have adopted the monetary measures which were recommended to curb this inflationary trend without experiencing the worst unemployment record for more than a decade which had existed when we took office. 
This Government can be proud of its record up to date. It has been an inventive Government in almost every sphere. It has adopted a totally new approach to the problems of contemporary life. We now have a number of portfolios which hitherto did not exist, and these portfolios already have made their impact on the Australian community. In regard to foreign affairs, Australia has never been held in higher esteem throughout the world than it is today, and this is greatly to the credit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  for the efforts which they have made to build the bridges that were broken by the previous Government. Papua New Guinea is on the tracks to independence and it is being financially supported by this Government so that it can achieve its ends. We have accepted our responsibilities to the underdeveloped nations which the previous Government had not been able to accept. 
Turning to the field of social security, 1 can remember that prior to the Anglican Primate of Sydney disclosing the extent of the poverty that existed in that city, the former Government's only contention was that there was comparative poverty - that one person did not have as good a motor car as another person. Never at any time did the former Government admit that there was poverty in the Australian community. Yet in the interim report which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  released yesterday, Professor Henderson tells us that one person in every ten in this great country lives in poverty. What action did the previous Government take to do anything about this question? This Government, in introducing very positive social security measures, has set about helping these unfortunate people who are in this poverty bracket. 
I noted that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  made a great splurge about housing in his speech. It is interesting to note that more houses are being built now than at any time during the period when the previous Government was in office. Even in the present depressed situation when the Government has been forced to control liquidity and to impose certain economic restraints, more houses are being built in Australia than were built previously. In addition, the Government has set out on a progressive policy in order to ensure that something is done about housing. We have started the new city of AlburyWodonga, which is something that could and should have been started years ago. This is the first positive step towards decentralisation. In this great city land will be acquired by the governments and it will be retailed on the same basis as in Canberra. It will not be sold at the fictitious and inflated prices which people in the great cities of Australia have to pay for land so that certain people can line their pockets and grow wealthy at the expense of the unfortunate people who seek a home. 
We have looked to new methods of building houses. In a time when there is a shortage of tradesmen and material, surely it is necessary to look at this age old trade to see whether we can do something about invigorating it and changing it so that it can mass produce houses in which people can live. It is notable how private enterprise has entered into the spirit of this with the Government. More progress in introducing new ideas into the housing industry has been made in the last 12 months than over the last 30 years, and I am quite sure that in the next 2 years we will see a greater number of houses being made available to the Australian people at a much lower cost than has been the case up to the present time. 
I can remember that at question time when I first came into this Parliament many honourable members opposite wanted to ask. questions of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  It is interesting to note that he never gets a question asked of him now. Nobody wants to talk to him now because the policies that he enunciated then have proved, in the present world oil crisis, to be the right policies for Australia. 
Yes, and overseas corporations will not be able to increase their 60 per cent ownership of Australia's quarry. They will be stopped at that point and not allowed to go any further. If possible we will retain our equity in this great Australian quarry that was sold off to overseas enterprises by the previous Government. This certainly will not restrict our preparedness to enter into agreements and partnerships with other overseas people in order to develop our resources, but we will not be giving the resources away as the previous Government did. So it is to the great credit of the Minister for Minerals and Energy that he has approached his portfolio in the manner in which he has done so. Today Australia is in the position where it has ample petrol, when nearly every other nation has not. It is to the great credit of the Minister for Minerals and Energy that he adopted his positive approach which was an unpopular approach at the time he took it. 
In the field of health we have done more than, any government has ever done. We have embarked upon community health programs with the State governments in order to provide much needed psychiatric centres for alcoholics and drug control which hitherto were not available. For years social workers and people engaged in preventive medicine and in other fields told the previous Government that these things were necessary, but we never had a Minister for Health with an inventive mind who was prepared to go ahead and introduce these policies. As much as it might hurt the Opposition for me to say this, the Government's policy in establishing health centres in the Australian Capital Territory has been an outstanding success. The centres are a great credit to the Minister and to the people who operate them. 
In the field of urban development, the Government has embarked on an inventive program which previously had never been considered. We will look at the situation where people have to live and spend their lives. We will improve the quality of life by improving the environment in which people have to live. No more will people who have small incomes and little means have to live in the worst suburbs without any facilities. Irrespective of a person's means, irrespective of how much money a local government authority is able to accrue and irrespective of the rates people are able to pay, this Government will ensure that all local government areas in which people live have equal opportunities. No longer will the fringe suburbs be without sewerage as they have been for 2 or 3 decades because of previous governments being inactive and having a wrong set of priorities, with money being misdirected and being used for the wrong purposes. We will ensure that these things are overcome and that the people who live in the great cities of Australia will have these essential facilities. The position is bad in every city. When one looks at the percentage of unsewered homes it is embarrassing. On a percentage basis, it is worse in Perth and places like that than in Sydney. Every city has suffered as a result of neglect on the part of previous governments. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is very active in his portfolio. This Government will bring in an inventive and profitable scheme to assist all people in this great country. 
The new portfolio of Tourism and Recreation has already been outstandingly successful. No matter where one goes if one is involved with sporting bodies one is greeted with appreciation for the assistance, though it has been small in this first year, which has been given to sporting bodies all over Australia. This is a field which has been neglected for many years. It is a great tribute to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  that in this dual portfolio already he has been able to engender enthusiasm into people occupied in these pursuits. I am quite sure that in the next Budget we will see a much greater allocation of funds for tourist and recreational purposes. We will see more money granted to sporting bodies which have been starved for so many years and have not been able to provide the facilities or the encouragement needed for our sportsmen and sportswomen. Yet we bask in the glory of our sportsmen. We pride ourselves that our tennis players can win the Davis Cup; that our cricketers can win the Ashes; and that our footballers can go overseas and compete successfully against other countries. Yet we have done nothing to help our athletes and all the other people associated with sporting pursuits. 
All the things that this Government seeks to do will be implemented despite the Opposition and despite the Senate, because the Australian people demand to have them. No longer are the Australian people prepared to sit back and take what a government is prepared to dish out. The governments that serve the people of Australia will be the governments that provide the policies that the people want. This Government will set out to achieve this. Over the next few weeks it will be very interesting to see the attitude of the Opposition parties to the referendums which have been proposed by the Government. I wonder whether they will oppose the referendum to give local government access to the Loan Council. Already they are dithering on this because they can see the great wave of public opinion and the support that is coming from local government authorities in every State for this measure. They also know that the people in the great cities are being affected by the enormous rates that they are forced to pay to cover the services provided by local government when the cost should be met from State or Commonwealth funds. 
It will be very interesting to see the attitudes which are expressed and to see whether the Opposition parties are as vigorous in their opposition to this measure as they appear to be in their opposition to all the other constitutional changes that the Government has proposed. No doubt they will oppose the electoral reforms which are so badly needed. Surely there could be no greater gerrymander than the gerrymander that has existed in the systems throughout the States and the Commonwealth. As a matter of self-preservation, they will try to oppose these great measures which will bring our electoral laws to the point where they are democratic and constitutionally correct. Nevertheless, the people will remain the judges. I am quite convinced that the Australian people have the good sense and the responsibility to support these measures that we will place before them. I challenge both Opposition parties now to come out and say what their attitude is to local government having access to the Loan Council. What are they - the National Party and the Liberal Party? 
Whatever parties are in opposition when these matters come up, 1 challenge them to oppose the referendum on giving local government access to the Loan Council. The Government will endeavour to do all the things I have mentioned despite the Senate. I trust that the Opposition will reconsider its position during this session of Parliament and give us some constructive support where that support is warranted and some true opposition when it thinks true opposition is warranted. 
Has the Treasurer made any determination whether the surplus of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund to be distributed to members and superannuitants will be subject to income tax? 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware of recent reports which relate to the dealings of the New South Wales Government and Parkes Development Pty Ltd? Is there any process by which a full inquiry could be ordered into this association? 
I do not want to take up the time of the House with too much debate on this matter as there is no opposition to it. However the Opposition has made a few points which I feel should be answered. The Glebe land takes its name from the present owners. It is a unique area of land very close to the centre of the Sydney city, yet unique in its topography. It is divorced in the form of a peninsula. It is a very valuable area of land and a very wonderful place for people to live in. Of course in recent times there has been a vast increase in the youthful population as people who are studying at the Sydney University find occupancy in this area. Much has been said about it. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said that plans should be prepared so that we could have a better idea of what the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  proposes. The Leader of the Opposition then went on to criticise. He said that the people ought to be involved. This is the precise plan of the Government in relation to these Glebe lands. First of all, the 700 homes are there and they are viable. People are living in them as people have lived there for probably half a century or more. The people who live in these houses are entitled to expect that they will be able to live there for quite a lengthy time. 
The Church of England, faced with the obligation to do something about this area after receiving the poverty report, approached the Australian Government so that the area would not be fragmented by developers who could put on the land high density development of the type about which the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  was speaking. This is precisely what we do not want. We want this land to be planned properly as a precinct, with one owner able to do the planning, so that the whole area can become a delightful place for people to live in. It does not need much imagination to think of what can be done. We could add to this area immediately another 300 homes so that we can house another 300 families. Being the sole owners, we could be able very easily to close roads and or make cul-de-sacs, create pedestrian ways and plan the area properly, as should be done. But if the Government or the Church of England allowed the area to be fragmented we certainly would not get the type of development we want. 
A great deal has been said about the amount of money that will be spent to build new houses, town houses and medium density or high density type construction on this land. It is proposed that we shall buy the property for about 30,000 a home. If one were to go a short distance from the avenue and try to buy a comparable house one would pay twice the price. This terrace type housing which exists in Glebe has become very popular. In Paddington and in other areas of Sydney the houses are being renovated rapidly so that people can live in them. Extremely high prices are being paid for them. The Australian Government will lose nothing on this project. If we buy the houses and the land we will own the real estate and, at some time in the future - it could be the far distant future - if it becomes necessary we can redevelop the area in an orderly manner. But the fact of the matter is that we are actually getting the development now for the price of new homes. For that reason I think the Government has taken the appropriate action in this case. It is paying a fair price for this very wonderful part of old Sydney Town. We will preserve it. We will develop it. We will encourage resident participation in the planning and control of the area. I am quite sure that this area will become a model for many of the councils and local government areas throughout Sydney. One hopes that the New South Wales Government will take up this idea in an enterprising way and develop some of its areas rather than what we have seen over the years with the schedule 7 type development around the redeveloped areas of Sydney. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I rise to speak tonight following my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who represents in this chamber the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  about possible corruption in the Australian Country Party. I wish to draw the attention of the House to the situation that has arisen. In the last week or so a great deal of publicity has been given to the proposed Menai town centre development in the Shire of Sutherland in Sydney. I am indebted to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for his remarks, which were answered recently by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who showed that  Sir Charles  Cutler, the Minister for Local Government in the New South Wales Parliament, had revealed confidential correspondence from the Minister to other people. This is exactly what happened in the case of the dealings of Parkes Development Pty Ltd with the Minister in relation to land at the Menai town centre. 
The situation was that the Sutherland Shire Council, which had been responsible for the total development of a new town area - I understand that this is the first time that a local government was responsible for the development of such an area - had embarked upon the planning of the Menai town centre, an area to accommodate some 80,000 people. The Council set up a separate department within its structure, at great cost to itself and to the ratepayers, to plan and develop the Menai town centre in an orderly fashion. 1 might say that it has been acclaimed by the State Planning Authority which did not alter the plans that were submitted to it by the Council but approved them in toto. The town centre development represented about 350 acres, some of which was owned by private developers, some by the Sutherland Shire Council, and some by various small owners. 
The Council made an application to acquire the whole of the town centre, the bulk of which is required for public utilities or government departments or roads in order to develop it in an orderly fashion. The Minister received a letter and gave the Council no reply. 
The land was owned by various people, including the Sutherland Shire Council and Parkes Development. The next thing that happened was that the Council was approached by Parkes Development which suggested to the Council that the Minister had asked it to come to a conference so that he could discuss with the company the acquisition and development of the land rather than have Sutherland Shire Council do it. The Minister denied this and said that Parkes Development had heard that the proposition was on and had come to him. Then Parkes Development produced a letter which showed that it had been invited by the Minister for Local Government,  Sir Charles  Cutler, to a conference with him in order to discuss the development of this land without any discussion whatsoever taking place with the Council. It is ironic that  Mr Charody,  a principal of Parkes Development, recently accompanied the Premier of New South Wales on a perk trip overseas before the Premier's retirement - paid for probably, by the people of New South Wales. Certainly the Premier's trip was paid for. He was taken all around Europe and to Hungary and undoubtedly he was there the guest of the Hungarian financiers who have financed a great number of the enterprises of Parkes Development. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  recently said of the New South Wales Government that it was a government for developers. I do not think it is a government for developers at all; I think it is a government for speculators. I do not regard many of these people as being developers; I regard them as pure speculators. Just look at the record of the New South Wales Government. The State Liberal Government decided that it would levy a development tax of $1,000 or thereabouts on each block of land that was sold in the new town centres, and this money was to provide a very low interest financing fund to enable the local areas to provide community amenities. Money borrowed from this fund would be paid back at an interest rate of approximately 2 per cent. Legislation was enacted to give effect to this proposal. It resulted in a great hue and cry from all the speculators that this would increase the price of land. So the Act was repealed. That same land is now being sold at top prices. There has been absolutely no reduction in the price of the land taken up by the Menai town centre. In fact, it is being sold at more than $18,000 per block. Nothing has been done about this. The New South Wales Government is there to support its friends in land speculation. It is no wonder that the Australian Government has to step in and purchase land, such as the Glebe area, so that there can be orderly development. We all know what would happen to the land if it were given to these friends of the New South Wales Government. 
Yes, they have all got knighthoods, every one of them. It is very notable. 
Whether they paid for them or not, they have certainly been amply rewarded. 
I agree that they all ought to have been crowned. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am getting a great deal of valuable assistance. It is a fact that the New South Wales State Government has assisted development companies in New South Wales in every way. This has meant that there has been land speculation and that the price of land in the Sydney region is at a premium - much higher than the price which people, particularly young people, can afford to pay. It is a deplorable situation when a Minister of the Crown goes to a private development company without consulting the local authority after the local authority has approached him concerning a proposition for the orderly development of an area. It is a deplorable thing when the State Government cannot be brought to account for what it has done to the people of New South Wales. 
It is a deplorable situation that tonight we should find that this same Minister who has divulged this informatiion should encourage this private development company to go ahead and develop this area for its own profit and benefit against the best interests of people who will have to acquire land in the Menai town area, and of this Government which will have to provide various facilities and utilities. It is a deplorable thing that we cannot bring the State Government to account for what it has done. It is deplorable that tonight an honourable member is able to produce in this House documents which were written by a Minister of this Parliament to a Minister of the New South Wales Parliament. It is also deplorable that those documents have been divulged to other persons. 
It is rare that one ever hears such a low key debate as we have heard this afternoon from the Opposition on a matter that it will oppose in this House. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  has resorted to dragging out the old red herrings that have been dragged out in this debate during the period since it was proposed by the Government. He was back on nationalised health again when he knows full well that his assertions are not correct. He put forward exactly the same kind of propaganda as members of the Australian Medical Association have been dishing out to patients in their surgeries over the last 18 months. The honourable member knows that what he said is not true. He knows that there is no comparison between the scheme - (Quorum formed). Before I was rudely interrupted by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  who called for a quorum to be formed so that there could be more than 3 members of the Liberal Party in the House, I was saying that the honourable member for Chisholm had dragged out all the red herrings that had been used in debates of this matter over a period of time. The purpose of these Bills is for the orderly- 
It is not a matter of 'aah'. It is a matter of fact. If the honourable member for Riverina lived in Sydney and knew what was happening there he would appreciate the difficulties and would not treat this matter in the cavalier fashion that members of the Opposition have treated it ever since it was first presented to this House. A number of other matters were raised by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  raised the question of costing the Government's scheme. How could the Government cost the scheme accurately when it entered into arrangements with doctors at the beginning of this year for a set of fees to be charged and to be con tinued until Christmas and already the doctors have broken that agreement and are charging much higher fees than were ever anticipated? It is absolutely impossible to cost a scheme either for these funds that are now receiving the contributions and paying the benefits to the public or for this Government under the circumstances that exist at present. I have not heard one word from the Opposition about the doctors breaking their agreement. If a trade union had broken the agreement the Opposition would be crying out to bring in the Army or crying out for the union to be taken to court, or something similar. There has not been one word from the Opposition about the Australian Medical Association breaking the agreement that it entered into with this Government. So that the Government would not force a compulsory tribunal on the association it entered into a gentleman's agreement which it has broken as readily as it entered into it. I put it to honourable members that one could not trust the Association in those circumstances. Some extraordinary comments have been made in this debate by members of the Opposition. 
Again, the honourable member for Hotham raised the question of over utilisation of the scheme. He referred to Queensland's experience where, of course, there is a free hospital scheme which was started by a Labor government. - This scheme has been continued by various governments and now by the CountryLiberal Party coalition Government which has kept this scheme going obviously because it thinks that it is the best scheme for the people and it thinks that it is the scheme that the people want. The honourable member for Hotham made a number of statements about this matter. He said that the people of Queensland will have to pay under this Government's scheme whereas they did dot have to pay before. Of course, we all know that that is absolute rot. The situation in Queensland, as the Government freely admits, is that it needs an enormous amount of money to be able to bring its hospitals up to the standard it requires. The people of Queensland have had to put up with old hospitals, old buildings and inadequate hospital services because the Queensland Government has provided a free service to its people over the years. So, if the Government was not introducing this scheme now, the people of Queensland would be faced with the possibility of paying extra State taxation to raise more than $30m, which is needed to bring toe Queensland hospitals up to date. The honourable member casts a grave reflection on those people who work in hospitals in Queensland- What he is saying is this: As soon as a scheme is introduced in Queensland in which the levy is collected by the Government which then is paying for the services, the doctors will become corrupt and will admit into hospitals people who do not require admission. 
The present situation in :he Australian public hospital system is that not a great deal of over-utilisation of hospital services occurs. This is because of the procedures through which a doctor must go to gain the admission of a patient to a hospital. But what is the situation with respect to the private hospital sector? Let me remind the House of what the Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Dr Cass,  had to say when this legislation was before the last Parliament. I refer to some figures that he gave in which he compared the incidence of tonsillectomy and appendicectomy operations in Australia with those operations in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. In Australia there were 7 tonsillectomy operations per 1,000 persons. In the United States, where the health services are not inhibited in any way by those aspects to which the Opposition has been referring this afternoon in dealing with our scheme, there were 4 tonsillectomy cases per 1,000 persons. In the United Kingdom where the nationalised scheme with which Opposition members love to compare our scheme operates, there were 3.6 tonsillectomy operations per 1,000 persons. These services are entirely free in the United Kingdom. I ask: Why is it that there were so many tonsillectomy operations in Australia? Is it because a private hospital system operates in Australia under which doctors without any supervision whatsoever can admit patients and operate on them? 
I turn to the figures with respect to appendicectomies. The same situation is revealed. More than twice as many appendicectomy operations were performed in Australia as were carried out in the other 2 countries. I wish to quote now from an article which appeared in a journal entitled the 'American Federationist' of May 1973. Under the heading 'Doctors Speak Out on Quality of Care' the article states: 
I know of a case where a physician was making a helluva lot of money performing tonsillectomies on a fee-for-service basis for a prepaid group. Then he went on an annual retainer and his tonsillectomy rate dropped sharply. 
This article was written not by a member of the Government, not even by one of the eminent doctors whom we have in the Government, but by  Dr Kerr  L. White of the Johns Hopkins Hospital. I do not want to reflect generally on surgeons or other members of the medical profession. But obviously in this country in the system that has been adopted over the years there is an over-utilisation of services by a certain section of the medical profession. 
What is all this rot that we have heard about patients having no choice of doctor? It is dished up in all medical surgeries in Australia as part of the propaganda of the Australian Medical Association which states that patients will not be able to choose their own doctors under our scheme. The scheme proposed by the Government makes no alteration whatsoever to the existing scheme in relation to general practitioner services. A patient can choose his or her own doctor. There is to be a differential of fees, just as there is now. A doctor can elect to collect his fees in whatever manner he wishes to collect them. In New South Wales fees now are collected before a patient sees his doctor; otherwise, the patient does not see that doctor. Under our scheme the doctor can elect to collect his fees in whatever way he chooses. The only point is that he has a greater choice than he had before. No alterations are proposed to general practitioner services. 
What is to be the doctor-patient relationship in hospitals? This is a matter that the Australian Government cannot answer because the hospitals are under the control of the States. The Opposition is always reminding us of the sovereignty of the States. If the States are sovereignties, this is their business. In consultation with the States, this Government will enter into a scheme to provide better and cheaper hospital care for the Australian people. I remind the Opposition that our scheme is meant to cover not only those people who are not covered by the existing schemes now in operation. Our scheme proposes to increase the amount of cover that the present schemes afford the Australian people. Lack of cover is one of the big failings of the existing medical and hospital schemes. I am quite sure that once the scheme of this Government is in operation everyone, including honourable members opposite, will appreciate the great benefits of it. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy! The Minister, in answer to a question in this House, said that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission would, in future, have the responsibility for refining uranium in Australia. Is the Minister prepared to amplify his reply on this matter? 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of the widespread concern among home purchasers about the practice of lenders requiring borrowers to take out insurance with companies nominated by the lenders? Can he say whether any action is contemplated to protect the borrowers from this practice? 
I address a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of recent speculation concerning Australia's available energy resources, can the Minister give details of Australia's present liquid hydrocarbon reserves? 
I commend the Minister on these Bills which seek to amend many of the repatriation benefits that are available. I think the Bills indicate the Government's determination to provide for and to accept its responsibility to those who gave so much in the service of this country and to their dependants who in many cases are left without them and to extend and to expand the benefits that are available to them. I must say that I am surprised to hear the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  defending the autonomy of the Repatriation Department and then declaring that he does not quite know whether this is a wise thing or not. Surely the aim of the Australian Government, irrespective of what party is in power at what time, should be to provide for these people especially so that they can live in dignity. I  would  think that particularly those people who are totally and permanently incapacitated have a right to receive sufficient remuneration so that they and their dependants might live in the dignify one would expect for a man who incurred this type of incapacity in the service of his country. 
I am proud to be associated with a government which has done so much for these people in the short time it has been in office. The totally and permanently incapacitation pension has been almost doubled since this Government came into office, if one takes into consideration the autumn addition to the pension. I think this increase was very necessary and I am amazed when I hear the philosophers, the economists, speaking about inflation and Government spending that they should consider that the priority in this field might be to reduce the amount of remuneration to these people in order to contain in some way the expansion of the economy and its inflationary trends. 
This matter has been fairly well covered by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Bowen)  in his second reading speech and by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  in the address he has just made to the House, but there are some things I would like to speak about in relation to repatriation that are very disturbing to me as a private member. Almost constantly I find people are coming to my office with complaints about their treatment by the Repatriation Department. I want to say that I have had tremendous access to senior departmental officers and I have no objection in that respect, but I think that probably at a government level the Minister should look at some of these problems and see if some rationalisation can take place in regard to them. I am quite certain that when the repatriation tribunals have to give reasons for their decisions we will see a rationalisation of some of the decisions that have been made. It seems to me that not enough emphasis is given to section 47, the benefit of doubt section of the principal Act which relates to ex-servicemen and the responsibility of the repatriation tribunals and the Department to determine conclusively whether the recipient is or is not entitled to the benefit for which he has made application. 
One finds this lack of emphasis continuously at 3 levels: Firstly, in relation to those people who have suffered a cardiac problem in the latter years of their lives it seems to be the general rule of thumb determination that if they have not got some history of high blood pressure at the time of their service then their cardiac problem cannot be related to war service in any way. I am certainly not qualified to speak on this, but I doubt if many of the people who are making these determinations are effectively and suitably qualified to determine in this somewhat unknown area of medical science whether in fact a man's wartime service could have contributed later to the condition in which he finds himself. 
The other point that disturbs me a great deal is in relation to those people who have some psychiatric problems, some neurosis problems, who come before the Department and the tribunals in the latter part of their lives and who on many occasions seem to have been affected by the traumatic experiences they suffered during their time of service in the theatres of war. It seems on many occasions that if there has not been some definite history at the time of their service then it is rarely accepted that their condition could have been in any way contributed to by their war service. I find both these points most disturbing. 
The third point relates to people who cannot produce satisfactory evidence of the problems associated with their war service because medical records were either not kept due to problems in the theatres of war or those records were not returned to be included in their files and they have some history that is not properly documented. Time after time people have come to my office with almost conclusive proof of some injury or disability which they suffered and has not been recorded in their medical records. I would hope that the Minister in his general supervision of this Department might instigate some means by which a determination can be reached on these matters. 
Like the honourable member for Indi, I am delighted to see the extension of the services provided to people who served in various theatres of war and especially people who were prisoners of war. Unless one shared the experiences of the Second World War prisoners of war it is very difficult to realise the privations they suffered and I think anything we can do for the people who found themselves in that position is well and truly justified. I am equally delighted to see that British Commonwealth ex-servicemen who, if they are not of British origin are not entitled to a service pension because that country does not provide a pension of this nature, will now become entitled after 10 years residence in Australia to receive a repatriation pension. I know this has been very happily received by prospective recipients and I have already had a number of inquiries concerning it. 
The last matter I should like to turn to relates to the general welfare of the people of Australia. In the next few days we are going to be privileged as a parliament to receive a Bill which will seek to extend to the whole of the people of Australia, whether they are ex-servicemen or migrants, no matter who they are, the right to one of the basic freedoms for which every parliament and every government should strive, freedom from want. The same Minister who introduced the present amendments into the House will be introducing a Bill on national compensation. I take the point made by the honourable member for Indi about the right of an exserviceman to have some special privilege. Surely everyone in the Australian community who is incapacitated for some reason or other, whether it was caused at birth, by accident or by any other cause, is entitled to live in dignity. I am quite sure that it will be an historic occasion when that Bill is introduced into the Australian Parliament. I am also quite sure that supporters of the Government look forward with enthusiasm to the support of the Opposition for it. I hope that it will provide for everyone the basic freedom that one would have hoped could have been provided for years ago. 
-Opposition members would get full marks for their oratory today. But a number of Opposition speakers would get few marks for accuracy. The Woodward Committee, as it is commonly known, travelled throughout the whole of Australia, considered 222 written submissions from various groups and made itself available to anybody who wanted to give evidence before it. That Committee produced a most comprehensive report. It has been before this Parliament since July, and every member has had the opportunity to peruse it. This Bill has been before the House for 3 weeks so that honourable members might have the opportunity to review the Bill and to consider their position. 
Let me say right at the outset that the Government considers that this Bill should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. I consider that it is right and proper that this Bill should go before that Committee. The Minister for Compensation and Repatriation who has initiated this Bill is a senator,  Senator Wheeldon.  Surely he is entitled, if anybody is, to debate and discuss the findings of a Committee. We know that the Senate Committee will deal with the matter expeditiously and that its members are competent to consider the legislation that will be before them. We can have confidence in the report that they will bring down. I am quite happy that this Bill should be dealt with here and pass through this House to the Senate so that that Standing Committee may deal with it. In this way we might get some response to the legislation from those who claim so much pecuniary interest in the matter. 
Members of the insurance companies group had in attendance at all hearings of the Woodward Committee, which were held in various parts of Australia, no less than a Queen's Counsel. Yet, when that body was asked by the Committee to provide some facts and figures to assist it in its determinations, it refused to do so. The insurance companies remained aloof from the inquiry and its report. I am quite sure that, if this piece of legislation is passed through both Houses of this Parliament and becomes law, we will get the co-operation of the insurance companies and other interested parties to determine what ought to happen in the phasing out period, which will be a lengthy one, that the Government will allow insurance companies. 
I do not give very much credence to the cries of the legal profession because its members are going to lose some of their income. What is more important to me is that a large percentage of the Australian people are not now entitled to any compensation in relation to accidents. I point out that 40 per cent of those who are afflicted as a result of motor vehicle accidents- which are the cause of a great deal of the unfortunate mishaps suffered by Australians- are not able to make any claim before our courts. I invite the House to consider the ludicrous situation of a young mother who is run down on a pedestrian crossing in one of our suburban streets. She may be able to proceed against the driver and obtain compensation for what possibly could be the considerable injuries she sustained. But if the driver happened to have sneezed at the time of the accident, the likelihood is that that woman would receive absolutely nothing at all from our courts. What a ludicrous situation that is. 
What happens at present with respect to women, who make up 51 per cent of our population? Most of them are non-income earners. They do not receive any compensation payments at all if anything happens to them in the home. There is no return- no compensation- for what might happen to them. A great deal has been said about what happens to a child who has been injured. Let me give an example of what might happen. I refer honourable members to page 149 of the third volume of the report of the National Committee of Inquiry into Compensation and Rehabilitation in Australia. This relates to the case of a 9 year old boy who was injured and suffered permanent organic brain damage to the front temporal lobe resulting in psychomotor epilepsy. I seek leave to have details of this matter incorporated in Hansard. 
I thank the House. This boy received an amount of $45,000 for his injury because he was able to make a claim. In other circumstances he may have got absolutely nothing. Under the scheme the Government is introducing he would be entitled, over the period that he may live and up to 65 years of age when social security payments take over, to receive $1 14,300, so he would be far better off with his 85 per cent disability under the Government's scheme. I should like to see the amount greater but that would represent in the vicinity of $43 a week which is close to the amount that most people who claim compensation are able to get. The amount he was able to get through the court- this was a determination based on the Australian Medical Association scale- with interest and other gratuities taken into account, was only $45,000. 
Some mention has been made of the constitutional position of the Government on this matter. Under the Chifley amendment to the Constitutionsection 51 placitum(xxiii) and placitum (xxiiiA)- there is no doubt that responsibility lies with this Government to initiate this type of legislation which is one of the greatest welfare proposals that has ever been introduced by this or any government for the people for which it is responsible. I should think that the Opposition would be prepared readily to concede that there is great need for this legislation. I should think it would be proper to accept the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs as an appropriate committee to look at this matter. I should think that Opposition members would be prepared to concede that this matter should be dealt with expeditiously so that insurance companies and other people who are involved will know the situation and be able to make proper plans for the de-escalation or rearrangement of their business. 
It is hogwash for members opposite to say that they have not had sufficient time to examine this legislation. It has been before them for a long time and they have had every possible opportunity to examine it. Most of the objections by Opposition speakers have been in error. If they look properly at the Bill, examine it thoroughly and study the report they will discover that they have made an error of judgment and are not right. The Government is not responsible for this situation. It is the Government's responsibility to present the legislation, to give adequate time to the Opposition to peruse it and to deal with it so that it can be included in the statute books. Then we will be able to proceed with other business. I have been asked to limit my speaking time so that Opposition speakers who want to do so will have an opportunity to speak. There is much business still to transact so I will abbreviate my remarks and say simply that as it stands at present the law is an ass as it affects those people who are afflicted by disability. 
The Bill seeks to give, and undoubtedly will give, to the Australian people peace of mind and that basic and fundamental right to which they are entitled, namely, freedom from want that afflicts so many people. In closing I give an example of what can happen. This matter was referred to my office a few weeks ago. A carpenter engaged on a building job as a subcontractor to the builder erected a beam. A bricklayer who was working for a sub-contracting bricklayer on the job had grave damage done to his eye after the scaffolding had been erected and he was working on the job. He hit his eye on the beam. The solicitors acting for the bricklayer proceeded against the bricklayer who employed him, against the carpenter who erected the beam and against the builder who was constructing the job. Undoubtedly anybody would say that this was quite an ordinary case and the carpenter would not be in any way responsible for the fact that the man was injured, but, unfortunately, through some error that was made by his legal advisers, the first court case had to be abandoned and the carpenter now finds himself liable for court costs of $5,300 which he does not have. As a result he must proceed to further litigation and take action against his legal advisers. If he is fortunate he may win the case, but as a result of his concern and worry over this whole traumatic experience he has had a heart attack and is now incapacitated. These problems all arose because of the stupidity of the law that presently exists in Australia. Surely it is our responsibility to do something about it. I think members of the Opposition speak with tongue in cheek when they oppose this progressive legislation. I remind the House that similar legislation was introduced in New Zealand by a conservative government, probably not as conservative as our Opposition, because it recognised the need and was prepared to do something about it. 
Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry aware that some Australian manufacturers are apprehensive about the activities of the Industries Assistance Commission? Does the annual report of the IAC have any implications for Australian industry? Will the Minister take steps to ensure that the operation and activities of the IAC are better known and understood by manufacturers and the community generally. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, and I refer to a question asked by the honourable member for Balaclava on Tuesday concerning retrenchments at Pilkington ACI Limited. Will the Minister make inquiries to ascertain whether Pilkington ACI has during the last few months imported from South Africa 10,000 tempered replacement windscreens representing 120,000 square feet of float glass and whether a company named Vitrum has imported from a South African companya company in which Pilkington has a large financial holding- 20,11 1 laminated replacement windscreens representing 480,000 square feet of float glass? What percentage of its business would that account for? What proportion of the likely retrenchments would that account for? Is it also a fact that recently PilkingtonACI received some protection or assistance from the Government from competition consequential upon the refusal of a takeover bid by an American company operating in the same sort of business as Pilkington-ACI? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. It is a fact that the recent petrol and fuel tax introduced in New South Wales discriminates against motorists in that State? Will the tax boost disproportionately transport and manufacturing costs in that State? 
Is the Minister for Tourism and Recreation aware of the allegation contained in a special Press release by  Senator Rae  on 11 February that the Government had neglected on 2 occasions a request for a $20,000 grant by the Surf Life Saving Association towards administrative expenses? Further, is the Minister aware of the senator's charge that the Government had made available only $50,000 for administrative expenses- an amount which, despite inflation, had remained the same for the last 2 years? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that a well known consumer group reported concerning the effectiveness of baby nappy sterilisers and that its conclusion was that the complete nappy treatments do not work and are a total waste of money at any price? Will the Minister advise whether the Trade Practices Commissioner will investigate this report? 
-Can the Minister for Health verify whether the New South Wales State Government has not agreed to pay its contribution towards the cost of community health centres run by voluntary organisations? 
-Before the debate was adjourned last night I listened with interest to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  when he discussed the 3 provisions of this fairly short Grants Commission Bill which seeks to increase the number of fulltime members of the Grants Commission, particularly in relation to the local government division, to establish a status for the existing  Chairman, Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, and to incorporate some machinery changes in relation to the Remuneration Tribunals Act. During the course of the debate last night the honourable member for Lilley cast some doubt on the suitability of a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales taking up the position of  chairman  of the Grants Commission. 
Last evening in the gallery of this House there were some visitors who were senior officers of local government in New South Wales. I am quite sure that they would not have shared the concern of the honourable member for Lilley. It has been their experience to have appeared before this very eminent gentleman when he was on the bench of the New South Wales court which dealt with town planning matters. The honourable gentleman followed 2 other eminent people, namely, the Honourable Justice Sugerman and the Honourable Justice Hardie, onto the bench of this court. During the period that  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell served on this court he excelled as a man who had a great knowledge of local government. He was on this court for many years. Not only was he on this court, but the Liberal Government in New South Wales saw fit to appoint him because of his depth of knowledge of local government as the principal royal commissioner on a royal commission which in 1967 looked into the problems of local government finance. Despite the concern of the honourable member for Lilley that an accountant should have been appointed to the Grants Commission,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell was chosen by the Liberal Government in New South Wales for this position on this royal commission to do what one might think an accountant ought to have been appointed to do. Of course,  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell excelled in this role, too. He presented a very famous report which, like most reports, determined what we already knew. It set out what ought to be done to overcome the problems, but it was never acted on by the New South Wales Government. This is similar to what happened to the Barnett report which was recently brought down in New South Wales. 
So the people from local government who were here last night would not have shared the concern of the honourable member for Lilley.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell is admirably suited to carry out the task to which he has been appointed. In fact, it would be very difficult to find any other person in Australia who is more suitable and capable than  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell to do the job. Last year, for the first time, the Grants Commission handed down to local government throughout Australia its determination of what sort of finance local government ought to have to assist it in what it was doing. It is quite right that an additional member ought to be appointed to the Grants Commission because the task is a great one. There is the necessity for members of the Commission to travel around and interview all the councils. Recently, with a parliamentary committee, I was in Western Australia. One of the members of the Grants Commission had been around Western Australia. I think we can appreciate the great task which in involved in members of the Commission talking to local governments. This is the first occassion on which any Australian Government has taken the step of seeing what are the problems of local governments and of arbitrating on what amount of money they should get to try to allow them to bring their communities up to a standard which is equal to that of the communities around about them and of other communities throughout Australia. 
The council in which my electorate is situated thinks so much of the assistance which has been given to it by the Australian Government that the  president  of the council brought down a minute on 14 April last in which he told the council that it had already received $1,593,529. Out of that amount, $460,000 was a direct grant from the Grants Commission. The Commission is doing something for which local government has looked during all the years that I have been associated with it. Local government has always been encumbered by a shortage of money and has looked with envy to the States and, more appropriately, to the Australian Government which have had more money than local government to spend on the needs of the people. Nobody is more capable of knowing the needs of people and of their local community than local government, because it is the government which is close to the people. It is the government which knows what the problems are. 
This is the first Australian Government which has come forward and given to people in local government the tools to do what has been urgently needed in communities throughout Australia. One can imagine that this is something which will go on and on, because when one travels throughout a number of country areas one can appreciate the problems which face councils which might have only 2000 ratepayers in their areas. They have to provide the amenities which small groups of people- like large groups of people- need in order to be able to live in dignity and to pursue the life which we have come to expect in this great country of Australia. 
I do not want to take a great deal of time over this small Bill. I commend its 3 clauses to the House. There is no doubt that there is a necessity to recognise that if we are to appoint people of the calibre of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell to positions like this to carry out impartial and appropriate inquiries into the needs of local government we have to acknowledge their position in the community and establish them so that they hold the position they previously enjoyed. Any criticism of that aspect of the provisions can be very easily dispelled. I commend the Bill to the House. It is a very wonderful Bill that supplements one of the most progressive Bills ever brought into this House. 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of a company, MHLF Members Finance Ltd, which offers home loans at an interest rate of 2 per cent and urges young people to ' rush this card today ' to an address in Sydney? Will he refer this and other misleading mutual society advertising to the Attorney-General for action by the Trade Practices Commissioner? 
-Can the Prime Minister provide information about the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation, especially having regard to the current hostile propaganda that is being circulated against this community insurance service? 
I am opposed to all the amendments that seek to amend this clause. I think the premise that we should have a Bill that has a no-fault concept is the correct concept. Contrary to what the previous speakers have said, I see it as difficult to apportion the blame in any way to one party or another in many of the cases of divorce. I see that the mechanisms of the law are there, and adequate at present, in the injunction system for the cases which have been mentioned. I cannot see the necessity to change this clause, this simple concept, even by the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  or by the other amendments in total which have been moved. All the first amendment seeks to do is to take out the philosophy of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. I believe it is an important concept. It is a concept in which the magistrate can take into consideration the provisions contained in clause 14 of the Bill. I think the clause should remain in the Bill. I think the clause was adequately canvassed in the Senate. The Senate had the priority on this Bill, as it was introduced first into that House. The Committee of the Whole in the Senate went into the Bill in great detail. Many people who are legal practitioners in that House looked at this Bill and decided to leave this clause in the form in which it is now presented to the House of Representatives. I believe the clause is simplistic. It is the appropriate clause. If the amendments were adopted, one wonders what cases might be brought before a magistrate with regard to the type of behaviour involved. Each honourable member in this chamber appreciates a different type of behaviour as being suitable to dissolve a marriage than maybe would another person. 
Some cases have been mentioned, such as the person who is an alcoholic and beats his wife. But the majority of marriages break down because of the interrelationship between people. I believe that the 12 months period is the suitable period in which people may decide their future. It would be interesting to find out precisely what happens in many cases where there is acute behaviour on the part of one of the parties. Very often we find there is reconciliation between the parties, and that this extreme type of behaviour which takes place still means that the parties come back together. This is what the Committee here should be concerned with- trying to reconcile people, to get them back together in their marriage to try to work out their problems with counsellors and to try to overcome the problems that beset them and which make them think that their marriage cannot work. I support the clause in its original form. I think it has been well and truly dealt with in another place and I think that it should stand as it now is. 
I am opposed to the amendment which has been moved. I shall discuss some of the matters raised by the 2 previous speakers in favour of the amendment. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  said that this year the New South Wales court would probably deal with 14 000 cases. These cases would be dealt with by 6 judges of the court. If my mathematics are correct, allowing for a few public holidays and a reasonable working day, that means that probably it will take half an hour for each case to be dealt with. I hope that judges of the Family Court which is proposed in this Bill will give a lot more time than half an hour to each case in this involved and complex matter. The judges will be charged with a responsibility to deal with people's lives and associations, so they should be in a position to give a lot more time to each case. If those figures are correct I think there is every reason in the world for a family court to be established. This does not bolster up the argument that the States should handle the matter. I am afraid that this gets back to a States rights issue. The Government Party some time ago decided to support the establishment of a Superior Court which, of course, incorporated the family court concept. I believe that there are matters which the States can handle probably better than a central government but there are also matters that the central Government can handle far better than the States and, in respect of this uniform law which will affect all the States and all the people of Australia, I suggest it is to the advantage of the people who will have to come before this Family Court to have a uniform court with uniform ideals and with people who are working in the same direction and under the same direction. I think that is the lynchpin of this whole legislation. 
It is no surprise to me that certain honourable members are opposed to this clause because in fact they opposed the purpose of the Bill by voting against the clause dealt with in the last division. It is no wonder they do not want to see the Family Court concept accepted. If this Bill is to function in the way we hope it will, and if this law is to be the law we hope it will be, the Family Court has to be established in the way it is proposed in this Bill, otherwise the whole purpose of the Bill is lost. I urge honourable members, and especially those on the Government side who made a conscious decision to support the Superior Court concept in Australia, to support the establishment of the Family Court because without it the proposed law is virtually useless. 
-Certainly the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson),  did not say enough to convince me that the Budget ought to be rejected or that any of the procrastinations proposed by the Opposition ought to be adopted. We have been treated tonight to probably the vaguest speeches ever heard in this House in reply to any Budget. We asked when we presented the Budget that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  be specific. We heard the honourable member for McMillan describe a deficit of the size proposed by the Government as tragic. He said that it ought to be reduced. By how much do members of the Opposition intend to reduce it; or do they intend to reduce it at all? 
-The amount of $ 1000m has been quoted by the honourable member for Hume. Let me deal with this suggestion. It is ridiculous to say that the deficit ought to be reduced by $ 1000m, thus causing a proportionate reduction in the availability of money to industry. It would mean that $ 1,000m would be taken away from the money market to support the small businesses that the Opposition is saying need tremendous support, support which it would give to them. It is true that Australia is experiencing economic problems, as are the rest of the major countries. We are bedevilled by inflation coupled with unemployment, and the Government has been faced with the task of bringing down a budget which is responsible, which is framed not to produce further unemployment, which will sow the seeds for a gradual reduction of inflation and a recovery in the private sector, and which by the injection of funds will provide the necessary stimulus without forsaking the gains made in the public sector for which this Government can rightly claim credit. 
Let me talk for a minute about the continual claim from the other side to the effect that Australia is isolated from the rest of the world and that the total economic problems which bedevil this country at present are of our own making and are not affected in any way by problems overseas. One great Labor supporter writes: 
Many current characteristics of the Australian economy are very similar to those present in most Western type economies and to a considerable degree our present economic situation has been directly or indirectly influenced by international factors. 
That great Australian Labor Party supporter is none other than  Dr Harold  Bell, Bachelor of Arts, Master of Commerce, Doctor of Philosophy and the economic adviser to the Australian Mutual Provident Society. Yet continually from the other side of the House it is contended that inflation is simply a problem that bedevils this country and that Australia is not affected by overseas influences. 
I turn now to some of the matters that have been raised. I heard the Leader of the Opposition say in his contribution that under a LiberalCountry Party government the Pipeline Authority would be given back to private enterprise. This great national service to this country, which will provide natural gas to some of the country areas that honourable members opposite represent, would never be provided if private enterprise were to run the system and pay for it. It can be properly administered only by a national government, and this Government was not hesitant about stepping in and taking it over so that we could provide this service. 
I heard the last  speaker  talk about local government. What did his Government do for local government during the 23 years it was in power? I can answer that As a member of the Local Government Association of New South Wales and a former  president  of my shire, I can say that it did absolutely nothing for local government while it was in office. Yet the honourable member criticises what this Government has done, the great programs we have introduced. I have just led a parliamentary committee around some of the shires in New South Wales. Any hesitation in obtaining money from the Australian Government has been purely because shires have not stepped in and made proper application for it. The municipalities we visited have benefited greatly from the programs of the Australian Government. My own shire, within 5 days of receiving $350,000 under the Regional Employment Development scheme, had projects approved for the whole of the money it had been allocated. The projects had been presented to the appropriate committee and the committee had considered them and approved them. So any inability on the part of some municipalities to gain money does not arise from any lack of effort on the part of the Australian Government but is simply due to the inability of those municipalities to make out their cases. 
Let me talk now about the Australian life insurance industry. America epitomises the life insurance industry. There is absolutely no tax deductibility for life insurance premiums in America. Life insurance in America is sold purely on the basis of the needs of the individual for insurance. The American insurance salesman is able to acquit himself extremely well without any of the incentives that have been given in this country over the years. He is able to sell life insurance to those people who require it and who can use it the best. He is not hesitant about going out and selling it. There is absolutely no reason why the Australian life insurance salesman should not be as good as the American salesman, and there is no reason why he would not compete equally as well as his American counterpart. 
-That is right. He does not need the additional incentive that has been given over the years in this one sector of business. It is marvellous how these great fighters for private enterprise suddenly become socialists when things get tough. It is marvellous how they come rushing to the Government for assistance. That that is so was shown during the years when the National Country Party of Australia had some influence on the Government. It is reflected in all of the incentives that were given to rural industry. But we did not find the same incentives given to the local grocer on the street corner who found that competition was too great and that he could not compete. Those incentives were not given to the pharmacist who, having set up business in a town, found that there were too many pharmacists for him to compete successfully. But every time rural industry got into some trouble the Government of the day did not try to rationalise the industry, as it should have done with the beef industry. The beef industry was left alone, but then a subsidy was wanted from the Government to get it out of trouble. It is a fact that when beef prices were high, when people were receiving good prices for their beef- before United States of America had its economic problems and the other countries could not buy our beefthe farmers switched from growing grain and cereal crops to beef production. Everybody produced beef. There could be only one logical conclusion to that situation, and that is that we would be over supplied with beef. But we did not hear the National Country Party saying: 'Let us rationalise the industry'. 
We have had to rationalise nearly every sector of rural industry because of the complex situation created by having thousands upon thousands of individuals involved in the industry. Rarely have we heard anything constructive from the National Country Party about beef production. All we have heard is that we should be giving further assistance to the industry to get it out of trouble. Supporters of the National Country Party become great socialists when they are in trouble; they are not socialists when they are out of trouble, and they do not want any socialism then. The same situation applies to all the great industries we have in Australia. When things are tough the people engaged in these industries find that those have to come to the Government for rationalisation, for assistance, for help. 
Right from the time of the inception of this great nation we have had our economic ups and downs. It has been a common thing with this country, and we are now trying to get ourselves out of one of the worst recessions that we have ever faced, a recession which was commenced when honourable members opposite were in government. No less an economist than Milton Freedman, who certainly was not a supporter of this Government, said on the television program  Monday Conference  that the problems being experienced by Australia today were started in 1972 when a government of the political complexion of honourable members opposite allowed the huge inflow of overseas moneys. There was an increase of no less than 26 per cent, the highest that had ever been experienced up until that time in Australia's history. When that huge inflow of money was allowed into the economy the rot started. Unemployment started; inflation started. Certainly the rate of increase has accelerated. Today's  Australian Financial Review  carries an article on the housing industry. This Government set out very early in its time in office to try to control the rapidly accelerating inflationary problems that existed in relation to building materials. We took those steps, and today the headlines of the  Australian Financial Review  indicate that at last the price of building materials is going down. Many builders have been in severe financial trouble because they were not able to buy materials with which to build houses and so to fulfil contracts. I could instance many cases of builders in my electorate who almost went broke because of the grave shortages of building materials. But what did previous Liberal-Country Party governments do about the situation? They did not do one thing about it. They let the situation develop. They let it remain. They did not know what to do. The speeches made tonight by honourable members opposite indicate that they are floundering around in the dark. One honourable member opposite said that the Opposition in government would reduce the Budget deficit by $ 1 billion. 
Why did not the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  give clear indications of the areas in which it would be reduced? Has he accepted Medibank? He did not mention Medibank in his speech. Has the Opposition accepted Medibank totally so that the allocation of funds to Medibank will not be reduced in any way? Not one mention was made of that. Yet Medibank was one of the great planks adopted by the Opposition in the Senate. The Senate refused to pass the legislation which sought to impose a levy to finance Medibank. The Opposition said that it did not want Medibank. Even though it has been in operation for 3 months in the first major economic speech that is made by the Leader of the Opposition not one mention is made or one word is said about Medibank. What is wrong with the Opposition? 
Has not the Opposition an economic policy? The Australian Industry Development Corporation was set up to help industry in Australia The Opposition opposed and rejected on 3 occasions without proposing an amendment the legislation which sought to set up the Corporation. On the last occasion on which the legislation was put before the Parliament the Opposition let it go through without any opposition at all. What is wrong with the Opposition? Has it not got any economic policy at all? Tonight the Leader of the Opposition did not have one inkling. He said: 'We will adopt the Mathews report in total'. Many finer economists than the people opposite have costed this report and all the valuable suggestions it contains, and they have found that it is absolutely impossible to adopt. So what is the Opposition going to do? Does it intend to run this country into complete economic ruin? Does it not know which way it is going? We had hoped tonight that from the Leader of the Opposition- we did not expect it from the other back runners- we would have got at least some insight into the Opposition's policies. We did expect at least the Leader of the Opposition to give us a clear and concise statement on how he would run the economy if honourable members opposite were in government. He could not even do that. The other day the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  asked members of the Opposition to be concise in their contributions to the debate. Have they been concise? Not one little bit. 
I did listen, and a lot of other people listened, and none of them could get conclusively from Opposition members the areas in which they intend to make these savings. The Leader of the Opposition indicated a policy of zero growth in the Public Service. We heard a few other vague innuendos about what the Opposition would do, but apart from that we heard absolutely nothing at all. 
Let me return to the topic of local government. By means of one system we have given the council in my electorate nearly $2m since this Government has been in power. Under the present chairmanship of the Grants Commission my council has received $460,000 and $600,000. What did that council get out of Liberal-Country Party governments? Absolutely nothing at all. Honourable members opposite have the hide to stand up and criticise because they think that the shires in their electorates are not able to squeeze enough money out of the Government. LiberalCountry Party governments never introduced one program to help the Aboriginal people who are disadvantaged and never introduced one program to help in local government. They did not do one dung. But the special works projects, the Regional Employment Development scheme and the Grants Commission have been responsible for giving local government breathing space. It is this Government that has been inventive. In all the years that honourable members opposite were in power they did little enough that was inventive. The status quo remained. They were not prepared to take any steps; they were not prepared to make any mistakes. They are still not prepared to come out and say what they would do if they were in government. They are still not prepared to make any really constructive criticism of the Budget which was brought down last week. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
Is the Minister for the Environment aware of the concern of councils and citizens in relation to the damage being caused by wave action in Botany Bay and also their concern about installations for the new port development in Botany Bay? 
I address my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister will be aware of concern about the consumption, of alcohol amongst some Aboriginal communities and of the matter concerning the community at Oenpelli raised by the honourable member for Mackellar during last night's adjournment debate. Can the Minister say what steps he can take to overcome this problem? 
In view of the Treasurer's comments in the Budget concerning the Mathews report, has he been able to give further consideration to the proposals in that report? Would he consider it appropriate for his Department to assist in a consideration of the Mathews report? 
-Has the Prime Minister seen reports of a proposal that Medibank should be financed through the imposition of a levy? Can he say whether the Government has considered this proposal and, if so, with what results? 
Will the Minister for Administrative Services state what action, if any, is proposed regarding restriction of members' facilities in view of the present financial crisis caused by the unprincipled action of the LiberalNational Country Party Opposition in delaying the passing of the Budget? 
I address a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that a Commonwealth car was made available yesterday by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to a certain person who entered Australia without a visa? If so, will the Minister make available to the House all information on this matter? 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services in a position to give any further information as to the possibility of further travel restrictions for members of Parliament? 
-I would have thought that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was arguing for the passage of the Bill in its present form and that firm guidelines and full definitions should not be placed into the Bill. I say that because of what he said about the differences in the types of land tenure and so on that were required as between Arnhem Land and central Australia. My opinion is, of course, that the Bill ought to go forward as it is now. Under the normal sittings that were planned for the House the Bill would not have been dealt with until the week commencing 19 November, but because of the stupidity over the constitutional crisis the matters set down for later in the parliamentary session have had to be brought forward. So the Bill is being dealt with earlier than expected. 
It seems to me that this Bill and the other 2 Bills ought to go forward now as Acts and that we ought to rectify the mistakes that will become apparent through experience. There is no way in which we will find out what are the problems associated with these Bills until we have had practical experience of what the people want. I will give just a few examples. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who has had a great deal of experience at Yirrkala, state that he could not see why the land could not be held in absolute fee simple so that the people could dispose of it if they wished and so on. 
I am sorry if I misunderstood the honourable member for Wentworth. I thought he said that the land should be held in complete fee simple by the owners of the land and that he disputed the fact that a land council was involved in the title to it. If what he is saying is that these people ought to be able to hold the title themselves- I do not see that as being any real criterion- I have no argument with him. But I point out that even under the New South Wales land title system one does not hold the title to the land; one holds a copy of the title and the registrar holds the title to the land. Surely the whole thing is similar there. The land council could hold the title and a copy of the title could be given to the people who own the land. 
I think this matter will require the gaining of experience. After that experience has been gained I certainly would have no objection to the matter coming back either to the Parliament or to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs for consideration. I think that a full understanding of the situation can be obtained only by gaining experience of what the people want. The situation has changed. When I was at Yirrkala the people there were opposed to the establishment of the Northern Aboriginal Land Council. I have been advised by people who have been there recently and discussed the matter that the involvement of the people of Yirrkala in the Northern Aboriginal Land Council has resulted in their changing their opinion, which they are entitled to do, since that time. I do not think that just by presenting a Bill to them we will make these people realise all the ramifications of what is contained in it. I think that it is only through practical experience that we will find out what is needed. We ought then to be prepared, each and every one of us, to admit that there are things that need to be changed, as undoubtedly there will be in this very complex situation, and to come back to this House and have the amendments presented to us not once and not twice but a dozen times if that is necessary in order to give the people what they want. 
I was surprised that the contributions today from the honourable member for Mackellar and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  seemed to place more emphasis on how this legislation will affect the white population who have business interests in the area than on what the Aboriginal people are entitled to. Quite frankly, I think that is a minor consideration compared with what the Aboriginal people are entitled to. These people and their ancestors have lived there for the past 30 000 years. I listened with interest to the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory, who seems to think that he is the only person in the 
House who knows anything about the Aboriginal people. Let me say to him that those people have a sacred belief in their land that is incomprehensible to most white people, even those who have had a close association with Aboriginal people. 
-The honourable member does not have to tell the Government that because the Government is aware of it. The Government is advised by people who have much more experience of and feeling for the Aboriginal people than the honourable member has. 
-Professor Stanner for one. He advises the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and is a member of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. He and others who, for the last 40 years, have been associated and living with Aboriginal people are much greater authorities on the subject than the honourable member for the Northern Territory is. I consider that the Bill should go through in its present form and that the Government and the Opposition should be prepared to look at it consistently and constantly as the things in it that may need amendment are found. I think that by setting firm and inflexible guidelines, particularly in relation to the Commissioner, we would be doing the wrong thing. I think he has to go out and talk to the people, inquire of them and advise the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and that through the Minister this Parliament has to be advised of what are the wishes of the people. 
Part agreed to. 
Clause 2 1 (Establishment of Land Councils). 
