The Prime Minister may recall that, when he first took office, by question in this House I drew his attention to the widening of the gap in our economy between secondary and primary industry and asked whether he would cause investigations to be made with a view to giving primary industry by price support on exports the same financial advantage as that enjoyed by secondary industry through tariff protection. I now ask: Did the Prime Minister take any action in this regard and, if so, with what result? 
I want to make a personal explanation. I have been misrepresented. I have been in this House since 2.30 o'clock and I went out for 3 minutes. I had to go out. The honourable member for Dawson straight away used the paltry tactics of trying to take advantage of me by saying: The honourable member for Mallee is not in the House.' I have seen more of this House in the past 24 years than any other man. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  -No. 
In his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligations under a Commonwealth guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of wheat from the 1968-69 crop. To assist in the marketing of that crop arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $624m from the Rural Credits Department of the Bank. The date for final repayment is 31st March 1970, approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than 1 year. 
The Board's income from sales of wheat will be  insufficient  to enable it to repay the borrowings in full by the due date ... It is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the Bank. 
Three honourable members have participated so far in the debate. The first  speaker  this afternoon was the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I do not think much wheat is grown in his electorate. The next  speaker  was the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr- Turner).  Certainly no wheat is grown in his electorate. The third  speaker  was the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  A lot of wheat is grown in his electorate, which is separated from the electorate of Mallee by the Murray River. I always maintain that the Murray River should not divide us but should unite us. Today we have heard three points of view. Very few members of the Labor Party in this place represent wheat growing areas. Honourable members opposite who do represent wheat growing areas could be counted on the fingers of one hand. The majority of honourable members opposite represent metropolitan areas. I do not want to start a fight by comparing the merits of primary industry with the merits of secondary industry, but the fact remains that members of Parliament do their best for the people who elect them. If they fail in this duty they do not as a rule stay very long in Parliament. This is a fact that cannot be denied. Those members of Parliament who represent metropolitan electorates seek continually to reduce the cost of foodstuffs while those who represent country electorates, such as the fine band of Country Party members in this place, are ever striving to improve the conditions of those engaged in primary industry - the lifeblood of this Commonwealth. 
This debate has been very interesting. First of all, the honourable member for Dawson said that someone should have told the wheat growers about the situation. Then I come straight away, if I may, to the honourable member for Riverina. He said that this is a unique situation. According to what the honourable member for Dawson said it is not unique. He did not say so, but if one did not know one would think that he had foreseen all of this. But the honourable member for Bradfield soon cut him down to size and asked him why he had not said something about it if he had foreseen it. The honourable member for Riverina said that this is a unique situation and he said, I think, that not for 20 years have all the wheat growing nations in the world had a surplus of wheat at one time. Of course, this is practical and it is right. He also said - I have not written it down but I will vouch for it and Hansard will support me - that conditions can change very quickly. We know this and the Labor Party should know it. The only trouble is that there are a lot of new members here and only those people who were in the Parliament at the time know that towards the end of the last war one could only grow a certain amount of wheat. A man at Sea Lake could grow 200 acres but he grew 250 acres, some self-sown. He asked could he strip the self-sown wheat and was told that he could not. He asked if he could strip it and keep it for the pigs and he was told that he could provided that he left 50 acres of his original crop standing. That is how things were then. 
That is not really the point I want to make. The point I want to make is that within 12 months after that - this supports what the honourable member for Riverina said - the Australian public wanted more wheat and it had to be imported. When it was imported it brought in a lot of the weeds and rubbish that have grown into the wheat crops over recent years and have given wheat growers so much trouble. These things are really happening. I think it was the honourable member for Bradfield who said that if the wheat had been sold overseas goods would have been brought into this country. But what is the good of talking about what would have happened if the wheat had been sold overseas? The wheat has not been sold. The money is owing to the bank and is due on the 30th of this month. Therefore this Bill has to be passed. Any advocacy of the lowering of the interest rate can be made in this House at the appropriate time and every honourable member knows this full well. Two honourable members mentioned the Wheat Stabilisation Act and said - this is subject not to correction but to interpretation, because people listening outside may not quite understand - that this is the first time the Government has been called upon under the guarantee. 
Whoever said it, it has been mentioned by two honourable members in this debate today. It could easily mislead people who are not as well informed about stabilisation as honourable members should be and make them believe that under the Government's guaranteed price scheme for wheat the Government had never been called upon to pay. The Australian Labor Party introduced the Wheat Stabilisation Act but, of course, now one would not recognise it because it has been improved so much. Although this scheme was brought down when the Labor Party was in office it was not very pleasing to primary producers because the Labor Party lost all the wheat seats in the 1949 elections. So as far as this scheme is concerned Labor did not pay any guarantee under the Wheat Stabilisation Act but since 1960 an amount of about $150m has been supplied by the Government to make up the stabilisation guarantee; I am subject to correction on that figure. I am only saying this so that people both inside and outside this House who are not well informed on the subject will not believe the statement that this is the first time the guarantee has been called upon - mistaking the guarantee to repay the bank for the guarantee under the Wheat Stabilisation Act. 
This Bill is very important because, after alt, the wheat industry is most important. The honourable member for Dawson has complained bitterly and he said that this cannot go on. I cannot quote exactly, but I remember that in a newspaper article I read that  Mr Phil  Meehan who at the present time is the  Chairman  of the Grains Division of the Victorian Farmers Union had said: 'We are delighted with the Government at this stage for telling us that $1.10 a bushel will be paid for the wheat from the next harvest. This will give wheat growers the opportunity to put their own house in order. This will enable them to grow a certain amount of wheat and perhaps a small surplus, because one cannot always tell how many bags one will get to the acre. It is really good that this should be known.' But, from what the honourable member for Dawson said, it is very doubtful if a first payment would be made at all next year if Labor was in office. Then he asked: 'What about the next year?' Well, what about the next year? Surely this country must support the primary producers. It is all right to have a lot of nickel and other types of mining going on, but when it is all said and done it is the primary producer who forms the very backbone of this country. It has been said, metaphorically speaking, that if we burnt down the cities they would be rebuilt as if by magic but if we burn down the farms the grass will grow in the streets of every city of this Commonwealth. 
The honourable member who is interjecting - I never overlook an interjection - knows that this debate is very restricted and if I went on to deal with the wheat industry and the way 1 can see- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 1 would remind the honourable member for Shortland that interjections are out of order and I would remind the honourable member for Mallee that his response to the interjection was also out of order, not having any relationship whatsoever to the Bill. 
All I can do is to sympathise with the honourable member for Shortland. We are both out of order. This Bill is really like a machinery Bill. It is not actually a machinery Bill but it is near enough to it. Of course, the Country Party has more members to speak on this Bill but let me sum up what has been said by the three speakers so far. First of all, the honourable member for Dawson deplored the fact that this money is to be made available to assist wheat growers. 
The honourable member for Dawson says 'rubbish'. Honourable members should read Hansard and see what he says. He said that this cannot go on, that this cannot happen. He said that we should have advised the wheat growers of the situation. Less than 12 months ago the Wheat Stabilisation Bill was before this House and when one or two adjustments were made to it the Labor Party was up in arms. Now members of the Labor Party are saying that stabilisation has encouraged people to grow wheat. Anyway, what the honourable member for Dawson said  -  I never deal with personalities; 1 deal only with policies - showed very clearly that if he was in the office for which he is the shadow Minister, that is, if he was Minister for Primary Industry, the wheat growers would have to look out. 
The honourable member for Bradfield generally speaks against money being made available to primary industry. He has said before that no money should be spent on great irrigation projects unless they are going to pay straight away. He says that unless these projects pay straight away they should not be implemented. Of course, these things grow. The money has to be spent first. As far as the Country Party is concerned, members of it know the potential of primary industry all the time. Of course, we may have one or two brief periods when things are not loo good. The honourable member for Riverina was actually caught between two fires on the subject; but he had to disagree with a member of his own Party.  His  colleague represents an area which grows no wheat and he represents the electorate of Riverina, but he put forward the best case he could and I support him on some of the points he made. I just want to say to other honourable members who represent city interests that a Bill like this is of paramount importance to this country. The financing of primary industry is absolutely important to the future of this country because we have to depend for our present stability and our future progress on the man on the land. 
I want to say, in the most kindly way, that I cannot understand how, even in the wildest flights of imagination, the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  could blame the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for causing the present problems facing wheat growers. I cannot understand that point of view. If the honourable member for Moore wanted to blame the Federal Government he could do so, but why pick out the Minister for Primary Industry? I say this for the simple reason that Cabinet makes the decisions. I believe that fair play is bonny play. It is the Cabinet that makes the decisions. 
Of course it is the Minister's department. But after all, we must take a wider view. I say very definitely that Cabinet must take the decisions. When speaking in the second reading debate I mentioned the announcement made some fortnight ago about the payment of $1.10 in respect of the quota portion of the next wheat harvest. To roy knowledge such an announcement has never previously been made until November, just before the harvest, and therefore it is of great value to wheat growers. 
Did I hear correctly, that when the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  asked the House to agree to the motion which he moved, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who is Labor's shadow Treasurer, agreed to it? Did I hear correctly? I think I did. 
I did. Immediately afterwards the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who has no authority at all on the front bench of the Australian Labor Party, got up and completely denied what Labor's shadow Treasurer had said. This is amazing. This illustrates what we have been saying about the Labor Party for a long time. It has been proved today. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Is he aware that there has been a very sharp fall in rural land values but that primary producers are still being called upon to pay estate duty and other charges based on out of date book entries of previously inflated land valuations? Will the Treasurer, insofar as the Commonwealth Government is concerned, make investigations with a view to bringing rural land valuations in line with reality? 
 I was very pleased to listen to what the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said just now. I remember when he first came into this Parliament, and other members do also. Has he not mellowed since he first came in? I submit that some of the new members, after they have been here a while, will mellow too. I appreciate this Bill so much that I want to be associated with it very briefly. I want to point out - and it is on record - what the Prime Minister said in his policy speech. He said: 
In the next Budget we will make available to each separate organisation in the Meals on Wheels organisation a $1 subsidy for every 10 meals served in the past year. 
This was to be introduced in the next Budget, but it has now been brought forward some months. The subsidy will be paid on the number of meals delivered last year. This is a retrospective payment. This is one of the best Bills on such a subject that I have seen. It might not be a gigantic Bill, and it does not refer to any of the things mentioned by the honourable member for Reid, but I believe it will1 have the support of the whole Committee. That being so, why should we hold up the business of the Parliament? 
Well, I was just concluding when the honourable member for Lalor rose. Evidently, I was not pleasing him and he did not want me to go further. This is very noticeable on so many occasions in this House. Finally, I ask: Why does not the Labor Party get behind this project? The Dartmouth Dam is in the best interests of not only South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. It is in the best interests of the Australian economy. 
No, I do not. I shall always resist in this House these personal attacks. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendments)  stand part of the question. 
I will be very brief. I do not want to hold the House up. When the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  was speaking justnow be made some statements regarding critics of irrigation. I put the simple question to him: 'Do you support this?' The answer I expected was: 'No, I do not support it.' Instead of this, he made a personal attack on me. 
ls the PostmasterGeneral making investigations with a view to finding means whereby a reduction may be made in the cost of upgrading rural telephone lines so that they will meet the standard required for automatic telephone services? If so, when can a report on this subject be expected. 
The honourable member for Riverina has not said anything yet. 
Then the honourable able member should not be saying anything now. The River Murray Commission is being held to ransom by some people in South Australia. Whether those people represent a majority or a minority remains to be seen. I do not want to enter into a row with the South Australians. There are a lot of new members in this place and  they  are very anxious to make themselves heard in a way which will please their constituents. This is only natural. I am not saying anything against that; it happens in this House all the time. Everybody should know that. If they do not know it then they ought to gain some general knowledge about the things that happen here. I would agree with the Opposition on this proposition to build the Chowilla dam and the Dartmouth dam together, or to build the Chowilla dam. if I thought for one moment that the people of South Australia would be disadvantaged in relation to their water supply by not building Chowilla dam at this stage, lt has been pointed out very clearly that  this  is not so and that South Australia will  get  more water and better and purer water. It will  get  the water. 
Opposition members are contradicting one another. I wrote down the words of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in order to be sure of them. He said: 'This is the death knell of Chowilla dam'. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  said: 'We are asked to throw away for all time our own water supply scheme'. But then another honourable member said afterwards that it is anybody's guess as to when Chowilla dam will  be  built. Honourable members will see these words in Hansard. If the new members who have spoken in this debate were seasoned members in this House - 1 am not trying to give them a tip - they would say: If we ever get into office we will build Chowilla dam'. But the honourable member for Dawson and others have said  that  the project is finished and cannot now be built. 
You said that it would not be built. I am not saying  when  I  will  build it or when the Government will build it. But the honourable member for Dawson  Said  that this Bill is the death knell for the Chowilla dam. That will appear in Hansard. Another honourable member said that the project has gone forever. This is not very good politically and it is not good logic. After all the chances are that Chowilla dam will be built in the future if it can provide more water even over  and  above the extra water that will go to South 
Australia from the construction of the Dartmouth dam. Then it could very well be built. 
I have said in this House on many occasions that of the two greatest priorities in this country the first is defence. It is of no good having homes, good water supplies, motor cars, parliaments and democracy if we cannot protect them. The second is water conservation. A good water supply is necessary. I agree with one member of the Opposition who said that the Australian continent probably is the driest in the world. This is right. But, after all, why go about these delaying tactics? That is all they are. The Opposition has moved an amendment which states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the States for the establishment of a National Water Conservation and Construction Authority, embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority, to carry out a systematic and efficient development of soundly based water storages in the major river basins including the Murray and Darling systems.' 
First of all, you have to negotiate with all the States again. How long will that take? When the national water conservation and construction authority is set up, how long will it be before it comes up with something that will be adopted? After the authority has made its findings will this Parliament agree with them? This is what the Opposition is asking. I thought that the honourable member for Dawson was very ill at ease tonight. 
I will not say that because he says that if I am absent from the chamber for about 3 minutes. I want to say to the new members in this House that I try to hit as hard as I can against policies but I never touch personalities. If any new member adopts that attitude he will be appreciated in this House. I suppose I represent - I am subject to correction - the longest stretch of any electorate on the Murray River. I represent hundreds of miles from Gunbower right down to the South Australian border and if any honourable member represents a longer stretch on the River Murray I would like to hear about it. If he has the proof I will say that I have made a mistake. 
The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  said that the honourable member for Angas has been inconsistent. That is a ridiculous statement to make. I would like to know how the honourable member for Angas has been inconsistent. First of all, he is not against the building of Chowilla. He believes that at the present time there is a chance of getting on with Dartmouth and that we should build it as soon as possible. If I spoke on a subject in this House and I subsequently found out that I was wrong then I would change my mind. Being consistent is not keeping to one's opinion. It is being willing to change your mind if you see the reason to do so. Any man who has a certain opinion on a matter and who sticks to it whether he is right or wrong never really does anything. You must be able to change your mind if you find out that you have been on the wrong trail. This is true consistency. The honourable member for Angas has said that he is still favourable towards the construction of Chowilla at the right time. 
As to the talk about Chowilla being gone forever, I have never heard of such pessimism from men who say that they are fighting for their State. Do they mean to say that once this Bill goes through Chowilla will never be built? I think that the expression used in the boxing world would be: After this Bill goes through, as far as Chowilla is concerned he is going to throw in the towel. Really this is what is happening. What is wrong with building Dartmouth straight away? I might even support the building of Chowilla at a later stage but I will not support it when honourable members say that the Government must build Chowilla first and that ii it does not it must not build Dartmouth. 
There is no doubt that the River Murray is Australia's greatest waterway. Of course, as has been said quite truthfully, so many people are dependent on Murray water. We want it to be as pure as is possible and Dartmouth will contribute very largely to the purity of the water that will flow into South Australia. I represent the Malee electorate. Although at one stage members of the Victorian Parliament asked: 'Is the Mallee worth saving?', it was not long before it was proved that the Mallee was in fact worth saving. When the Mallee district started to grow more wheat than the famous Wimmera plains and when the Chaffey brothers established the great dried fruits industry at Sunraysia, Mildura, it became vital to the economy of Australia. It is a great export industry and this is what we want in Australia. I think that this year over 70.000 tons of dried fruits will be grown in that area. Someone has said that the real worth of water is in producing power. This is true. If you just get the water - whether it is from Chowilla or Dartmouth - and pour it onto land without growing anything it is a complete loss. I am very earnestly interested in what the water from the River Murray grows. 
It has been said that if you have not seen Mildura you have not lived. Honourable members should go along and have a look also at Swan Hill and Kerang and the other great river towns which use Murray waters. I am interested so far as Dartmouth is concerned. There must be a flow of water past places such as Kerang, Swan Hill, Boundary Bend, Robinvale, Red Cliffs, Mildura and Merbein. But how will water flow through these places from Chowilla? It cannot be done. Water does not run uphill, and therefore it cannot be done. On this subject honourable members on the Opposition side have tonight gone into fine detail on things about which they know very little. I am prepared to take the opinion of the experts and although I do not believe in reading speeches I want to quote what the former Minister for National Development had to say on this. 
I am not reading my speech; I will read from a speech made by the former Minister for National Development. We were very fortunate tonight in that we heard from the former Minister and also the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  These men have had great experience and they are dedicated to national development within Australia. Honourable members opposite, even in their wildest flights of political expediency, would not say anything against these men. Why tackle personalities? If their policies are wrong then tell them, but do not tackle the man personally. This does not get you anywhere. For goodness' sake let us have some new thoughts from the new members in this House. On 25th September 1969, the former Minister said: 
The technical representatives of the 4 governments concerned agreed that the best site for this storage is near Dartmouth on the Mitta Mitta River instead of at Chowilla on the Murray River. In Sydney, on 7th March, 1 met the Ministers responsible for water supply in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. That meeting agreed on conditions of water sharing, and other technical matters, under which the 4 governments would proceed with the construction of Dartmouth. At that meeting in Sydney, the 3 States specified that their agreement was conditional upon the Commonwealth providing finance to help them pay their share of the cost of the new storage. 
In Canberra at the meeting of the Premiers in June, this condition was met. The Commonwealth offered to provide a loan to the States on half their share of the cost of the storage, in addition to the Commonwealth meeting its own quarter share. This committed the Commonwealth to an outlay of nearly $36m out of a total estimated cost of $57.5m. 
Now there is not the slightest doubt in the world that the cost of constructing Chowilla played some part in the decision to construct Dartmouth. But if Dartmouth can be built cheaper than Chowilla and Dartmouth will give a better water supply, what is the debate about? I cannot understand what people are arguing about when this is the position. The costs have risen, as has already been mentioned, to $28m, to $43m and then to $68m. I do not just want to repeat those figures; 1 want to say that the Commonwealth Government was supplying a very large percentage - I just forget the figure now - to New South Wales so that it could contribute its share. This applies to other States, too. The Commonwealth is prepared to do this for Dartmouth also, and it is doing it all the time to promote water conservation. 
Let me pay a tribute to both the former and the present Minister for National Development for the fighting of salinity in the Murray River at Barr Creek near Kerang and Lake Hawthorn near Mildura, where tons and tons of salt have been collected and put in evaporation areas. This has prevented salinity to a large extent in the River Murray. I said that I would not go into detail, and I am not. But let me sum up the position. Firstly, the Opposition is not in full1 agreement on what it wants. Secondly, some members of the Opposition say that the death knell has sounded for the Chowilla dam and that it has gone forever. I can see one member of the 
Opposition smiling. I expect that he will rise and say that Chowilla still can be built and that it has not gone forever as the honourable member for Dawson said. The honourable member for Dawson threw in the sponge pretty quickly on this subject. He said that this was the death knell. I think that be said some time ago that the Australian Labor Party would be in office shortly. If Labor came into office and had the same enthusiasm for Chowilla as it has now, would it not be built? What about the death knell if the Bill goes through? 1 do not know whether I should mention whatI am about to mention as it really concerns the Country Party. It was reported that the Federal Council of the Country Party agreed to build Chowilla and Dartmouth together, but that is not so. A motion was passed at the meeting that the Country Party would consider investigating the possibility. That motion was passed by the Federal Council, not Country Party members of the Parliament. At the same meeting I spoke against the Chowilla Dam being built. If it was reported in the Press that the Country Party supported the joint building of the 2 storages, that is completely wrong. 
I am most anxious that the Bill be passed and that we get on with the job. After all, water is the lifeblood of the Mallee electorate and also of areas further afield. Let us not give up the hope of Chowilla being built. If it is capable of providing more water and if more water can be stored there, by weight of its own advantages it will be built in the future. Honourable members opposite should not throw in the towel1 so easily on an issue like this when the people in South Australia expect them to be fighting for them to the bitter end. Why, if I took that sort of attitude in the Mallee 20-odd years ago I would not have been in this Parliament for 12 months. WhenI first came here my Party was in the Opposition. One has to fight for things and keep fighting. 
I was asked how long I have been in Parliament. The answer to that is: Too long for you, my boy. I think that there is no substitute for experience and I believe that a lot of the young members opposite are getting the experience here now. I hope that I can contribute a bit. I express to them my very good will. They may depend upon it that at any time they are speaking, whatever is said, I will never oppose them personally. But I will at all times try to support the policies of my Party. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has just said that I attacked him today. If he would give me a little peace from his continual interjections I should be very pleased. For the first time in this place I have noticed new members - not many of them, but some of them - interjecting before they made their maiden speeches. One of the good things about this Parliament is that when a man makes his maiden speech it is traditional for other honourable members not to interject. Would it not be fair then for new members not to interject until they have made their maiden speeches? I know that some of them have made their maiden speeches and they can interject as much as they like. 
Let me say finally that we should go ahead with the building of the dam. It is a great proposition. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not forget about Chowilla; keep it in mind, and every time you get the chance say something about it. I represent a great length of the Murray River and it is my intention to support the Bill and to vote against the amendment. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I have listened very carefully - (Quorum formed.) As I was saying, I have listened carefully to the debate. Last night in this House I spoke for about  20  minutes and I will not go over all those details today. I very briefly want to comment on one or two things that have been said. First of all the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has just resumed his seat, said that this is not just a South Australia point of view. I would like to know how he can substantiate that as a fact because I believe he was putting almost exclusively a South Australian point of view.  I  am also of the opinion that the view put by other members of his Party was a South Australian view. Two honourable members from New South Wales spoke but it is common practice for honourable members from other States to assist their colleagues who are speaking about a project of concern to them. Apart from that, if we travel through New South Wales and Victoria and do not speak just to politicians but to the people who use the water, the irrigators, we will find that the general feeling is that South Australia should have a fair deal as far as water is concerned. We will also find that they feel the Dartmouth Dam will give this fair share of water to the State of South Australia. It will give more water to South Australia than Chowilla would and will give purer and better water. 
What I cannot understand is why there is this hold up. Honourable members on both sides of the House say water is urgently needed. Water - conservation is one of the high priorities with this Government which realises what a dry continent this is. The Government wants more water for the continent and we are all for this objective, so why can we not get on and build the Dartmouth Dam Now. Every amendment I have heard put forward and debated has been what is known as a delaying tactic. The Bill will go through in the course of a day or two at the longest but delaying the work- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock) Order! I suggest the honourable member for Mallee is now developing a theme more in keeping with a second reading speech than a speech at the third reading stage, when the Bill is dealt with as it is before the House. New matters not previously discussed cannot be dealt with. 
1  will finish my sentence and I will be quite happy. I am saying that these tactics will bring about a delay in the construction of this most important Dartmouth Dam. That is all I want to say about that. As far as general issues are concerned, I believe there are no grounds whatever for the Opposition voting against the third reading of the Bill. 
[Quorum formed.]  Mr Deputy Speaker,  before the interruption, I was just concluding the few remarks that [ wished to make by saying that I cannot understand why the Opposition intends to vote against the third reading of this Bill. Anybody who has been in this House for awhile knows its procedures and can get an indication of what is likely to happen here as far as voting goes. My point is that a number of votes have been taken in this House and during the Committee stage on the subject that is before us in this Bill. In each case, the Government has made it clear that it is its intention to proceed with the building of Dartmouth Dam, not in conjunction with Chowilla, and not to build Chowilla in preference to Dartmouth. The Government intends that Dartmouth should be built. This is what we are supporting. 
I cannot refer to what I said in another speech. But I did ask: 'Why not continue to advocate later that Chowilla be built? Then you might get it too'. At the present time, the Federal Government is supplying most of the money for the building of this dam. It would have supplied most of the money for the building of Chowilla, hut the cost of that dam rose so high as to make the project at this stage unacceptable. 
Now, the Dartmouth Dam is to be built. Let us go ahead with that project. Let us have the Opposition supporting the building of Dartmouth for water conservation purposes. Let the Opposition not oppose the third reading of this Bill. Let it show very definitely that it is prepared to support a Bill that will give the whole country more water through the Murray system and which certainly will give South Australia more water than Chowilla ever could have supplied. This will be water of a better quality. The Dartmouth Dam is of vital importance to South Australia and to the rest of the States that are dependent on water through the Murray system. Let us have this motion - 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I ask: Is it a fact that facilities for the establishment of containerisation are, at least for some time to come, to be confined to 3 ports in Australia? Is he aware of the fact that the future of the fast expanding deep water decentralised port of Portland, in Victoria, is doubtful if denied this modern means of shipping? Will he make investigations, and I suggest an inspection of this port, with a view to establishing containerisation facilities at this export outlet for the products of all western Victoria, the south east of South Australia and further afield? 
The Minister for Social Services will recall that on a number of occasions I have requested that a regional office of his Department be established at Swan Hill in Victoria. Does the Minister know that the city of Swan Hill would be in ideal location for such an office, as it is approximately 146 miles from the regional office at Mildura and 120 miles from the one at Bendigo? In addition to the city of Swan Hill, such an office would serve a large rural community. Will the Minister give further urgent consideration to my suggestion? 
I want to reply to one or two things that have been said by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I think that all honourable members will realise that he put on an act tonight by calling out loudly. The  Speaker  had to call him to order. He said: I feel it so much that I can hardly control myself.' I can control myself and I am not any less concerned than he is. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. On several occasions recently questions have been addressed to me regarding the wheat quota system now in operation. Will the Minister state what part, if any, the Commonwealth Government took in establishing these quotas and in allocating them to wheat growers? 
What the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  is endeavouring to say is that a market is a place where you buy and sell. If one only bought and did not sell there, it is only half a market. If it is a place where you buy and sell, say, only half your goods it is only a quarter of a market. I believe he is quite right in this proposition. I believe that the moment we start to change this by denying protection to secondary industry there will be a cry from all over Australia. The real point J would like to make very quickly is that the position is that we must have a tariff protection in order to give the population- 
I will not go on with that line or perhaps any other line,  Mr Speaker.  All I was trying to do was to put to the House, in the language of the primary producer, just what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was endeavouring to tell the House. 
At the very outset I should answer 1 or 2 questions that have been put to me directly. I appreciate the speech made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  because he pointed out all the things that the Bill does, and that saves me from going into that fine detail again now. Some other honourable members have repeated it. Surely we all know now what the Bill really does. Someone has said that the Bill does not do what is claimed for it. It does do what is claimed for it, because we have claimed for it only that it will increase from $20,000 to $24,000 the amount at which estate duty commences and several other concessions. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports spoke about the great Sunraysia area. That includes Mildura, Merbein, Red Cliffs, Irymple and other places in the north western corner of Victoria in the Mallee electorate. This is a good place to mention because it is one of the show places of Australia. Apart from its great productivity it has become an outstanding tourist attraction. 
Let me return to the question that the honourable member put to me. He said that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has dealt with this area and other areas along the Murray River in different ways. He said that the Bureau referred to one part of the area as Sunraysia specialist and to another one as Sunraysia. The other area mentioned was the mid-Murray which goes down to Nyah, Swan Hill and further along the river in an easterly direction from Mildura. My answer is that the Sunraysia specialist is a man who grows dried vine fruits exclusively. He grows them to some purpose, too, for over 70% of the whole dried fruit pack in Australia is grown in this area. This is a great export industry and one that should be valued by any government in office in Australia. The Sunraysia farmer referred to by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is a man who may grow dried fruits and who also grows citrus fruits. He may have some other means of making a living. He is not exclusively concerned with dried fruits. The other area mentioned was the mid-Murray, further south. The farmers there grow dried fruits, citrus fruits and a lot of different kinds of seeds that are sold. They provide fresh fruit for the Melbourne market. These farmers are much more diversified than the specialist who grows dried fruits. By the way, it has been a wonderful season this year. The crop is very good. 
When the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  spoke on the adjournment about a week ago I. followed him, not immediately but after 1 or 2 other speakers had been heard. On that occasion the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  spoke on certain matters. I was very concerned about what the honourable member for Riverina said with regard to wheat quotas. We know that the quota system has not been accepted thoroughly or unanimously by wheat growers, but generally speaking the wheat growers think that the quota system is the best available under all the conditions in which wheat is being grown in Australia and overseas in such great quantities at present. I thought I should find out exactly where I. stood on this matter, so I addressed a question to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I should like to refer to that question now for the simple reason that it appeared to me that the honourable member for Riverina tried to give the impression that the Federal Government was responsible in every way for the quota system. On 16th April last I asked a question in this House in the following terms: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. On several occasions recently questions have been addressed to me regarding the wheat quota system now in operation. Will the Minister state what part, if any, the Commonwealth Government took in establishing these quotas and in allocating them to wheat growers? 
The Minister for Primary Industry is in a position of great responsibility. He gave the following answer: 
I almost get sick and tired of saying this, but the Commonwealth has no rights at all in imposing production controls. This Is a sovereign right of the States and the Commonwealth does not play any part at all in it. If there is a feeling that there are injustices, inequities or anomalies in the way quotas are apportioned to individual growers, they should take up their grievences with their own State Government. The State Government determines what the policy is in that State, generally in conjunction with the wheat Industry organisations. As far as the Commonwealth's role in this whole problem of surplus production of wheat is concerned, for 18 months before the Australian Wheat growers Federation made its decision I had been pointing out the problems that were confronting the industry and were likely to arise if we continued to have an escalation of production and difficult marketing circumstances. As a result of this the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation made a decision that there needed to be  some  restraints put on production. It determined a national quota and how this should be divided between the States. The Federation did this itself. It required that the Commonwealth guarantee a first advance payment of $1.10 on that amount of wheat, but then it was up to each individual State to apportion its quota to individual growers. So I say again that if growers feel there is any injustice or anomaly, this is a matter which should be taken up with their own State Government; the Commonwealth has no hand in it whatsoever. 
I put the question to the Minister for Primary Industry and I have read the question and the answer. I want to put beyond doubt what the real position is. I do not want to be rowing with the honourable member for Riverina but it appears to me that in this House he has tried to give the impression that the Commonwealth Government is or has been responsible for the quota system. This is absolutely untrue. My question has been answered very clearly by the Minister for Primary Industry and I would suggest that the honourable member for Riverina cease trying to create a wrong impression. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12,4 a.m. (Wednesday). 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. As many residents in the electorate of Mallee are intensely interested in the port of Portland, Victoria, and desire that it should be used for the export of their products and the import of goods they continually require, I ask: Did the Minister for Shipping and Transport at the invitation of the honourable member for Wannon recently make an inspection of the port of Portland? If so, did he note its decentralised location, its ability to berth practically any ship afloat and the vast, highly productive area it could serve? Will he do all in his power to foster the use of this port by coastal and international shipping? 
I wish to make a personal explanation, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  referred to what he called an unfortunate occurrence yesterday. Since my name was mentioned, I would like to tell the honourable member and the House that the lady who spoke from the gallery yesterday is receiving a full war widow's pension.  Her  husband was a prisoner of war. What she was complaining about had nothing to do with the Repatriation Department. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister. The dictionary definition of the word moratorium', which derives from the Latin verb 'morari', is 'to delay an act authorising a debtor or hank to defer or suspend payment for a time'. If this definition is related to the mob action which is anticipated in Melbourne today, I ask: Is the object of the rally to defer or to delay action by the Allies in Vietnam so that the sorely pressed Communists may get a breathing space and time to reorganise? 
It is my intention to supply certain newspapers in the Mallee and Riverina electorates with a statement. Therefore I think it fair that I should first read it in this House. As every honourable member knows, I do not read my speeches but I read statements and I am now going to read this statement. It is as follows: 
On returning to my home at Boort from the Parliamentary sittings at Canberra at 10 p.m., on Friday, 8th May, 1970, I had the first opportunity to read the Swan Hill Guardian of the 6th May and was amazed at an article I read in it headed Stormy midnight wheat debates followed Grassby's action'. 
On Monday morning J phoned the Editor of the Swan Hill Guardian,  Mr Murphy,  and asked him from what source had his paper received this article, and especially that portion of it attributed to me. He said that the whole of the article had been received from  Mr A.  Grassby, Federal Member for Riverina, and that the Swan Hill Guardian, which has its base and circulates in the Mallee electorate, had printed it in good faith. 
What concerns me is that the part of the article attributed to me was taken out of context and gave a completely different meaning to that of the authorised Hansard report of my speech. 
The article read 'The member for Mallee,  Mr Turnbull,  said that the uncertainty had always been that way for primary producers. They knew they would get a 20% cut. lt is of no use calling on high heaven in such things, but we must keep our heads'. 

 Mr Grassby had been referring to the Quota System in his article when he attributed this statement to mc. Naturally anyone reading it would think it was my reply to what he called the uncertainty of quotas', but this was not so. Reference to Hansard of 16th and 17th April- 
It was after midnight on 17th April-  reveals that in quite a different part of the debate, in answer to  Mr Grassby  saying 'Nothing has been done to give wheat growers any indication of what they should grow', I replied 'lt has always been that way'. When he puts a crop in a wheat grower does not know whether he is going to have 5 bushels to the acre or 30 bushels to the acre or a drought. This is why the farming position has always been precarious and why the position of the primary producer is different from that of the wage earner. This is why we in the Country Party support through thick and thin the primary producer. The wage earner knows exactly what he gets every week- 
My reply continues: 
The wage earner knows exactly what he gets every week, and it is generally rising, but the primary producer has no idea of what his return will be when lie sows a crop. If the Government were to say that a farmer had to grow, say, 10 bushels or 5 bushels to the acre, when the crop had been planted there would be no indication of what return would come to the wheat grower. These are practical considerations. 
My statement that uncertainty has always been that way for primary producers had no connection whatever with the quota system, as the article would have us believe. The next thing that the honourable member for Riverina attributes to me in the article is that I said- 
The next thing that the honourable member for Riverina attributes to me in his article is that I said: 
They knew they would get a 20% cut.  Hansard on page 1308 of 16th and 17th April - it was after midnight - reveals that I said: 
The other thing I want to say is that the great indication that has been given is that there is to be about a 20% cut, I understand, in the quota that was fixed last year. The fixing of the quota came about because wheat growers, quite rightly,  wanted $1.10 a bushel first payment. The Wheat Growers Federation met over in Western Australia and decided on the quota system, but the motions that gave legislative authority to the quotas did not come into this House. Quota legislation has never been debated here. It went through the State Parliaments and they gave the legislative authority. 
The honourable member for Riverina has consistently endeavoured to create the impression that the quota system was implemented by the Commonwealth Government. I have given him facts and figures which undoubtedly prove the point made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  when answering my question on th s subject. The Minister said: 
The Commonwealth has no rights at all in imposing production controls. If growers feel there is an injustice or anomaly this is a matter which should be taken up with their own State Government; the Commonwealth has no hand in it whatsoever. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Riverina should cease trying to create a wrong impression. The honourable member immediately followed his statement that I had said: They knew they would get a 20% cut' by quoting me as saying:  lt is no use calling on high heaven in such things hut we must keep our heads. 
Surely, as the honourable member for Riverina put it directly after my statement regarding the 20% cut, everyone would think it referred to this, but I said this in quite a different part of the debate. There had been wild interjections and heated statements by honourable members,, including the honourable member for Riverina, and Hansard reveals that I said: 
I am treating this matter calmly tonight because one cannot do any good for wheat growers or anyone else if one loses one's head, starts calling to high heaven about things and forgets logic. 
It has been said that omission is even more to be deplored than commission and, of course, the honourable member omitted the chief sections of my speech. I . then said, again quoting from Hansard: 
I further want to say thai the  Chairman  of the Grains Division of the Victorian Farmers' Union,  Mr Meehan,  said he was delighted that the Federal Government had announced that $1.10 a bushel would be a first payment on the quota wheat next year. Perhaps there are 1 or 2 things that honourable members do not know and I must tell them. In other years the amount of the first payment has not been made, with the exception of last year, before 1st November This year it has been a.m'v need at least 6 months before the normal dab.. 
In summing up I say that the action of the honourable member for Riverina in supplying to the Swan Hill 'Guardian' quotes out of context, said to be from my speech, is unworthy of a member of this House. It is contrary to all approved parliamentary conduct and in all the years I have been a member of this House I have never heard of another member adopting such an attitude. Surely there is plenty of opportunity for a member to state his case without attributing to another member, through the Press, opinions that he does not hold. 
Although I have mentioned only the Swan Hill 'Guardian' I have ascertained that the article also appeared in the Barham Bridge', and they accepted it in good faith. And it probably has been forwarded to other newspapers in Victoria and New South Wales. Perhaps  Mr Grassby  can tell us whether that is so. I wish now to quote what  Mr Grassby  said in this House. 
 The honourable member for Riverina said, in one of his flamboyant moments: 
I do not mind who disagrees with me,  Mr Speaker. 
He does not mind at all. He went on: 
I will debate with them at any time and at any place. 
I ask the honourable member whether that is true. Will you debate at any time in any place? 
That is not the question. Will the honourable member for Riverina stand by what he said as reported in Hansard? Will he debate with them at any time in any place? 
All right. I accept the challenge. I name the place as outside the office of the 'Bridge' newspaper in Barham, New South Wales, and the time as 2 p.m. on Tuesday, 26th May 1970. I have ascertained that if there is not enough room at that spot we can move to an adjacent vacant block of land. T expect to see thi honourable member for Riverina live up to his statements in this House by appearing in front of the 'Bridge' newspaper office in Barham at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, 26th May 1970. In that way he will live up to his promise to debate this subject with anyone at any time. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation. When Budget consideration is being given to repatriation benefits, will he give special attention to the urgent need for the funeral grant to be increased from $50, as it is at present, to at least $150? 
I very much appreciate the motion that is being discussed now. As the Opposition is in favour of it, it will be carried. I was rather shocked at the logic of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who said that we can export a merino ram but we cannot export a kangaroo. I am not doubting the truth of it. But he said we can export the kangaroo in a tin. Before the ban was lifted on the export of merino rams the merino ram could be exported in a tin, too. This is really a matter of whether they are alive and able to breed or dead. I have 3 minutes in which to speak and I would like to say I am wholeheartedly behind the motion. I wish to speak now about birds. In the Mallee electorate which I represent, the area just outside Kerang is the habitat and breeding ground of the ibis. The ibis goes all over Australia and it is a great natural asset because it rids the swamps and other places of various things such as fluke and crickets and minute organisms which harass the primary producer. These things are not in the best interests of primary production and they are eaten by the ibis. I believe the committee must work in conjunction with the States and if it does it will do much for the benefit of Australia. lt has my strong support. 
 I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that a taxpayer who receives only, say, 20% of his income from primary production is regarded for taxation deduction purposes as a primary producer and receives primary producer taxation deductions calculated on his total income, irrespective of its source? If so, I ask: Will the Treasurer investigate means of correcting this anomaly? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Did the Prime Minister study closely the pictures in newspapers of the so-called Vietnam Moratorium rally in Melbourne? If so, did he notice that teenagers and younger persons comprise at least 80% of those who took part? Will the Prime Minister do all in his power to discourage the use of our young people for objectives contrary to the patriotic principles of most Australians? 
My. question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. When Budget consideration is being given to repatriation benefits, will the Minister for Repatriation stress strongly that repatriation hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits be extended to all ex-servicemen and women of the First World War and the Boer War irrespective of any connection between the disability and war service? 
1 desire to make a personal explanation. 
First of all I agree with what has been said by the 3 honourable members who have spoken and, of course, I support this measure. I am influenced to a very large extent by the fact that this charge is approved by the Australian Dried Fruits 
Association which is the main controlling body in the industry. It has approved and I believe recommended this charge. This is the body that has guided the dried fruits industry since its inception. In this House - not so much in the last few years but when I came into it and for many years thereafter - the dried fruits industry marketing system was pointed to as a model for other industries to follow. 
I just want to say briefly that with the small crop last year and an almost record crop this year I believe that large and small dried fruit growers will be benefited as far as export is concerned. Also the Control Board will have money to use to promote sales. Therefore both of these interests will be benefited by this legislation. Because of the small crop last year the amount of money available to the Control Board became very low. The Board wants a fair amount of money for the promotion of the large crop this year. Therefore, I think this legislation is very, very appropriate. 
I do not need to go into the amounts involved because other honourable members have given these details. I do not want to undulge in tedious repetition. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  probably represents quite a number of dried fruit growers. Of course, the Mallee electorate represents at least 70% of the whole pack of Australia. It is not exactly right to say that the dried fruits industry has never had any assistance from the taxpayer for the simple reason that in this House, after a certain amount of advocacy about 15 years ago, a grant of 300,000 - or $600,000 - was made. This money did not come out of thin air; it came from the taxpayer. This industry is a very precarious one and as has been said by the honourable member for Riverina and other honourable members the season last year was a tragedy for the growers. Last year the drying of the fruit became very difficult. 
This Bill, I believe, is in the best interests of the industry which, for the quantity of fruit it grows and the amount of money involved on a percentage basis, is a very large exporting industry which benefits the whole of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
This will be one of the shortest speeches on record. The main thing I want to speak of - I would have made a personal explanation, except I did not want to do that - is that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  in his lighthearted way said the Mallee electorate has 32,000 constituents. If I had not been here to hear that it would not be corrected and people reading Hansard or hearing it on the air would think it was correct. But here they are in the electoral roll; they can be counted. The number in the Mallee electorate is 45,043. That is 13.043 more than the number that the honourable member for Griffith gave. It is absolutely wrong to make a statement like that. I do not want to be hard on the young fellow but he must give the facts. Four honourable members have spoken and the sizes of the electorates of the honourable members who have spoken arc 9 square miles, 18 square miles, 169 square miles and 772 square miles. I represent an area of over 19,000 square miles.I said this would be a very short speech.I wanted to put right the number of electors in the Mallee electorate; I have done that. After being here for many years, I support the bill. 
1 want to say only one or two things regarding this Bill and I will not hold up other speakers; you can depend on that. This is a very gen- erous amount of money that has been made available for teachers' colleges. It will be appreciated because there has been a lot of unrest due to there being not enough qualified teachers to have the schools right up to date as far as education is concerned. I take it what has been said regarding the need for teachers colleges is apparent and honourable members have made it very clear. Therefore I do not want to engage in tedious repetition. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has told us where these projects are to be built. I want to deal only with the position in Victoria. Extensions are being made to certain colleges in Victoria. If I remember correctly there are teachers colleges at Ballaraat and Geelong. I see that extensions are to be made to the teachers' colleges at Coburg, Burwood, Monash, Melbourne. Frankston, Latrobe and Bendigo. 
I think there should be some decentralisation of teachers' colleges, lt is my opinion that it would be very appropriate to have teachers' colleges at such places as Bairnsdale with its vast population, Colac, Mildura, Swan Hill, Portland and Wangaratta. These are just a few places where teachers' colleges should be built. Students who attend Melbourne colleges get an idea of city life. They may come from a country area and a taste of city life makes them want to stay in the cities. This is not good for decentralisation. Decentralisation is forgotten. In Victoria special trains are run from country districts to Melbourne taking school children to look around the industries where they might like to work for life. The children are taken to the PostmasterGeneral's Department and to the big factories in Melbourne. They are being taken down there away from the country districts. Naturally, when they get a job there, they have to go to Melbourne to live. The factories, the Postmaster-General's Department and other departments are not decentralised! I am very happy to say that the Department of Social Services has been decentralised. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Drury)Order!  T suggest that the honourable member come back to the Bill. 

 - Sir, I am right on the job. Why can we not decentralise the teachers training colleges? I am not saying that half of them should be in the country. But surely, apart from the big provincial cities such as Bendigo, Ballarat and Geelong, there are some other places where we could have them. This would be in the best interests of education and in the very best interest of decentralisation, in spite of what city people might say. They might say: 'The honourable member for Mallee is always pushing this decentralisation project.' But this is something that this country needs urgently. Every opportunity I get I will put it forward in this House. 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether he will give urgent consideration to convening a meeting of representatives of the New South Wales, Victorian, South Australian and Commonwealth Governments to discuss the .need to establish a Murray Valley authority with full power to develop the Murray Valley and control the distribution of the waters of the Murray River, preferably through pipelines, and so banish State jealousy and allow this fertile valley to be developed and populated to the advantage of Australia? 
Honourable members have just heard the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  He has been in this House a very short time, as have many honourable members. When Labor was in office 1 had my best opportunities to speak at 3 o'clock, 4 o'clock, 5 o'clock and 6 o'clock in the morning, after sitting all night. Atthose hours Bills involving millions of pounds went through. I am just answering what has been said.If the honourable member for Riverina doubts what J am saying I refer him to the authorityI have referred him to so often and that is the Commonwealth Hansard. 
Question resolved inthe affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
This is the way Labor used to run it. 
Before commencing on the actual consideration of the provisions of this Bill I would like to say that the Minister dealt at some length with economic conditions in the dairy industry itself. There can be no doubt that it is in fact quite true, as the Government has said, that there is a very serious economic condition prevailing in the dairy industry today. The latest available figures suggest a rather rapid increase in the production of dairy products. It seems that unless some brake is put on production about 230,000 tons of butter will be produced in 1970-71. That is an estimate on the latest projections. At the same time there is a degenerating average price being paid to the producers and we can see the rising costs spreading at an increasing rate throughout the economy of Australia. In the last 15 years costs on rural properties have increased in excess of 40% and although productivity has increased it has not done so with the same rapidity. And the average price has been reduced. This, of course, is due to shrinking world markets on the one hand and the application of the equalisation pri nciple on the other hand. It is not the fault of the equalisation principle at all It is simply that the more we produce with our 2 sets of prices, the world price and the domestic price, the weighted average price is correspondingly reduced. 
The world situation in the dairying industry issomething which must give rise for concern. Huge surpluses estimated at 300,000 tons are held by European Common Market countries. We are faced with a limited market as far as quotas are concerned in the United Kingdom, and there are the increasing practices of lobbying, etc., being displayed in the United States of America as regards imports of primary products not only from Australia but from all countries. All these things are matters for concern. At the same time we have increases in dairy production, in New Zealand, Ireland and other countries which are in competition with Australian exports. We also have the problem of butter substitutes, not only on the Australian market but also on other markets. Substitutes are being dumped by Common Market countries. Butter oil for reconstitution is an example of this. Taken by and large the position of the dairy industry in Australia is rather grim. 
The farmers themselves, like all farmers when the average price is reduced, work a little harder, and consequently either through technology, improved management or simply through harder work, they increase production. This is what has happened in terms of per cow or per acre, or whatever the measurement may be. The dairy industry has responded in what might be called a magnificent fashion in terms of increased production to try to beat adversity, but the only result has been and will continue to be a downward movement in the average price paid because the markets are stagnant. What has this meant? It has meant that in this season there is probably a carryover of about 5,000 tons of butter. If the projection that has been made - of $230,000 tons of butter in the 1970-71 season - is correct, we could be faced with something like 20,000 tons of butter in stocks on hand in June 1971. 
From my study of the position, I believe that one State - Victoria - is not playing the game. It is quite obvious that there has to be a reduction in production. That is the only way out for this industry. Dairy products are unlike wool, for which we have a market. We know that there are markets for wool at a price. But there are just no markets for surplus dairy production over a certain limit. It would seem that a beggar my neighbour policy is being followed by the Victorian Government in increasing production with gay abandon. Today 85% of our total butter exports are from Victoria and 64% of our total production comes from Victoria. The figure has increased from about 45% in 1960. 
Tasmania is contributing to this increase in a minor way, but Victoria is the State of Australia which today, with its beggar my neighbour policy, is causing grave misallocation in the dairy industry. To what degree the Victorian Premier and his Cabinet will take any notice of the danger signs I do not know. But surely the Victorian Premier must realise that what he and his Government are doing is simply reducing the average prices of dairy products, particularly butter, for all States. If the other States are willing to play the game and to see the danger signals that indicate that they must do something about restricting production, Victoria should do the same. 
Under the stabilisation arrangements, if the Commonwealth is to underwrite the agreed equalisation price the Australian taxpayers could be up for a very heavy sum of about $20m for the 1970-71 season, in addition to the $27m per annum that is paid under the stabilisation arrangements. I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry has warned the dairy industry that the Government will not underwrite it to that figure. The unfortunate part of the matter is that it will not be Victoria that will suffer; it will be the rest of the Australian States. 
I mentioned in passing that one of the great problems is the cost-price squeeze. There can be no doubt that, whether we are speaking of the dairy industry, the wool industry, the beef industry, the sugar industry or whatever industry it might be, this insidious increase in costs in the major export primary industries is having the effect of eating out the very heart of them. What is the remedy? I suppose that a number of things could be done. Whether they are practical, of course, depends on Government policy. The first is reconstruction, which we are considering now, to make the industry more efficient in terms of resource use. Price control of essential goods and services may be one method that will have to be given serious consideration. If prices of essential goods and services continue to rise, it is quite obvious that greater subsides will have to be paid to the export primary industries. 
There is also the question of tariff compensation for the major export primary industries. There can bc no doubt that they are suffering a greater disability as each year goes by, with the apparently high tariffs that are being imposed to protect secondary industry. It has been estimated on the best figures I can obtain that, taking into account total cash and imputed costs, the wool industry is at a disability of something like 19% or 20% of total costs, even allowing for the bounties being paid on inputs such as superphosphate. It is not cash cost but cash cost plus depreciation and other imputed cost - a total of an estimated 20% disability. Of course, the only other way is to reduce production. I would think the only way this could be achieved would be by licensing or registering dairy production in Australia as is done in the sugar industry. This, of course, is a matter entirely for the States. It is relatively easy to do this in the sugar industry because only one major State is concerned - Queensland. Northern New South Wales comes into this in a minor way. But production can be controlled in the case of sugar most effectively. 
Prices control is a matter of State policy but the wage earner has often been blamed for the increase in costs in Australia. However, the wage earner has to go to arbitraton to gel his increase in wages to offset the increase -in living costs. The export farmer in the main has to do one major thing - hope that world prices will rise or that world markets will expand. Contrast that with one of the main reasons for increased costs in our manufacturing sector - tariffs. We see in this area that the major manufacturing industries are either monopolists or oligopolists and. irrespective of the level of profits, are able to increase the pr-ces of their commodities without any reference to arbitration or any authority. We can cite for example the record profits of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Despite these profits the company can go ahead and still increase the price of steel. Niether the wage earner nor the export farmer can do this. 
The dairying industry is striving desperately to expand its markets throughout the world. This is a pretty tough battle because most of the developing industries have particular policies of self-sufficiency and when they produce above that self-sufficiency they engage in all sorts of practices which amount to dumping of their surplus production. One of the markets which Australia is trying to break into is Japan. Some measure of success has been achieved in this direct on in regard to the export of cheese. But it would seem that the growing influence of Japanese policies on the viability of the Australian economy must be given pretty careful consideration because almost every industry is trying now to break into the Japanese market in a major way. Whether we like it or not Australia is becoming more and more dependent on Japanese markets in order to earn our vital export income which is essential for economic growth. Whether th:s be export  income from minerals or primary industries we are becoming more and more dependent on Japanese policies. The one compensating factor is that we know that Japan wants our products just as much perhaps as Australia wants Japan to buy its products. The shrinkage of world markets is not only in dairy products. 
The downward trend in commodity prices is causing very serious repercussions throughout Australia in the rural sector and this Bill is a positive move not only to get greater efficiency in primary industry in terms of resource use but also to set up machinery which I hope will be followed by other industries in Australia because I think that in time if primary industries do not improve their economic character in terms of income earned it might be necessary to set up a Federal reconstruction Board. For example, one-quarter of Queensland today is devastated by a drought that has lasted for 3 years in many areas. Goodness knows how many bankruptcies are imminent in Queensland. I am, oi course, taking an extreme case. There is one thing in relation to the question of the expansion of markets in the dairy industry which 1 cannot understand. 1 notice that the Minister for Primary Industry is sitting at the Table. 1 wish to direct a question to him. The dairy industry is in serious trouble, lt is expanding. The industry is desperately in need of a market for all its cheese. Perhaps Japan could provide that market. But why in heaven's name have we to put up wilh cheese imports? At present close to  $5m  worth of cheese is imported. 
I address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Minister will recall that some time ago I introduced to him a deputation representing the Australian Dried Fruits Association which was specifically concerned with the taxation aspect of the Dried Vine Fruits Hail Damage Fund. Can he supply any information further to that given to the deputation to which I have referred? 
At the very start 1, like other honourable members, should like to congratulate the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  on his excellent maiden speech. Next I want to say - and I want this to underlie anything I say - that I congratulate the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The members of that organsation have played a major part in assisting in the best possible way the wheat industry in the present crisis. 1 am of the opinion that the men in the Wheatgrowers Federation are dedicated to the proposition that wheat growers should get the best deal that this country can give them. Anything I say from now on will not stop me from believing that, because I have watched the situation very closely over the years and I know exactly what has happened. Members of the Australian Labor Party have sa d what a wonderful speech was made by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  and have said that the rest of the members of the Country Party do not know anything, but it appears that the Labor Party is pretty low on intelligence in respect of wheat. Why do not members opposite get up and speak? If we were discussing some industrial problem and members of the Country Party did not rise to speak the first thing honourable members opposite would do would be to taunt them and say: 'Why does the Country Party not speak on these things?" The Country Party is a specialist primary producers party. Every member of the Country Party represents a rural constituency I was amazed to see the men who were put up by the 
Australian . Labor Party to speak on the subject of wheat. I am more amazed tonight to note the honourable members opposite who are interjecting. They have not the courage to get up to attempt to make a speech on this great wheat growing industry. 
Let me examine those who spoke for the Opposition. First of all, we had the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  He is an academic. He has never worked on a wheat farm or any other type of farm. The honourable member has a great urge to show his book learned skill. But men up and down this country- 
I will be on to the Bil] shortly. Let me repeat that the honourable member for Dawson is always anxious in this House to show his book learned skill. I think the poet said: 'He still had hopes his book learned skill to show'. We have had a practical demonstration of this. I will be on to the subject matter of the Bill shortly. 1 wish to say something about the Opposition speakers on this Bill. After all, we on this side of the House have been examined in this way. The honourable member for Dawson was the first  speaker  on the Opposition side. He is, as I have said, an academic. He was followed by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  The honourable member for Riverina does represent a vast wheat growing area. I take notice of what he says. I met him at Barham in a debate on Tuesday of last week. 
How did I go? I thank the honourable member for Shortland for his interjection. 
1 would like to answer the question,  Sir. 
All right. Regarding the Bill, I think that 1 should not go into the fine detail of this legislation because every other honourable member who has spoken has done this. Such speeches become what is objected to by the Chair, as a rule, as tedious repetition. This is the debate on the second reading of the Bill. Perhaps honourable members have forgotten what the intention of the Bill really is. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  plainly said: 
This Bill is intended to amend the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act in 2 respects, lt will complement legislative action by the States: First, to implement a quota scheme for wheat deliveries; and, second, to give discretionary authority to the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat in Australia for purposes other than human consumption at prices lower than the price for human consumption 
In a nutshell, 1 have read what some honourable members have tried to explain in speeches lasting half an hour. 
I listened to the speeches tonight. Much has been said about the speech made by the honourable member for Moore and other speeches. Look, the honourable member for Moore spoke of what happened years and years ago. We all know off by heart what he spoke about. Then he put in one or two references to the other country. If he wants to do that, it is all right. But bow would he get on if he was in the Australian Labor Party and did this? How did Cyril Chambers get on when he tried only mildly to do this sort of thing? He did not receive his endorsement and he was out of this House. Yet we are told that Labor never does these things. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr 
Clyde Cameron) would be better tonight if he was on some other job where he has been appointed, I understand, in a high executive position by the Labor Party. i wish to refer now to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  - I am not going against your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - who claimed that he had some knowledge of wheat because he was horn at some place called Currabubula. I had a look to see how big his electorate is. It is 9 square miles. Because he was born at Currabubula the honourable member thinks he is a primary producer. 1 know of a baby who was born in a hospital. But that baby, when it grew up, did not become a doctor or a nurse. Things do not work out that way. 
Let me refer to what has been happening in the debate with which we are dealing now. I wish to answer some of the allegations that have been made, lt has been said that the decision on quotas was made in panic. Well, I cannot see the members of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation panicking. They are men who have been up against droughts, floods, bad seasons, surpluses in good seasons and these sorts of things. Just because an extra good crop is achieved for which no market can be found overseas or in Australia, I cannot see them panicking. If anybody wishes to say that they have panicked, he can say it; but it is completely wrong to say this. 1 turn to the talks at Ottawa. The Minister for Primary Industry went to Ottawa recently. Wheat talks were held there. Five major wheat exporting countries were involved in those discussions. Those countries were Australia, Canada, the United States of America, Argentine and the European Economic Community. I have here Hansard of 13th May 1970. I am always pleased to quote from Hansard because we have in Hansard the proof of what honourable members say. Some honourable members speak in an airy fairy way about things that they cannot substantiate. Sometimes I am chided for using Hansard, as 1 was the other day in the debate that I bad with the honourable member for Riverina. The honourable member for Riverina said: 'Hansard may be all right, but I would rather read the Bible'. 
The honourable member for Riverina said that in the debate that 1 had with him. I am satisfied when we are talking about the wheat industry and other matters of importance to the economy of Australia to refer to what is reported in the Hansard of the Commonwealth Parliament. This is what the Minister for Primary Industry is reported in Hansard as saying about the Ottawa discussions: 
At talks in Ottawa involving the S major wheat exporting countries - Australia. Canada, the United States of America, Argentine and the European Economic Community - figures showed that last year stock holdings of wheat went up by about 900 million bushells, an increase of almost 50%, to well over 2,000 million bushels. The forecasts for this year are that the increase will be only about 200 million bushels. It is anticipated that in 1971 we may see, for the first time since 1965, a decline in world stockpiles of wheat. 
That is what we are aiming for. 
Let us suppose that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation did not worry about the quotas which have been fixed by the Federation in conjunction with the State governments which have given the quotas legislative authority. What would be the position? This great stockpile would be growing all the time. We must have cooperation. We have had valuable cooperation with other wheat growing countries. Opposition members in this House have said often: 'Why worry about the other countries? If you have an agreement, why not sell our wheat outside that agreement?' If our wheat was sold outside our agreement, the countries which have much greater wheat production than we have could undersell us on world markets. Those countries could accept lower prices. They are richer countries than Australia is. Our wheat industry would be defeated as far as production is concerned and as far as the sale of the product is concerned for the next 15 years, 20 years or even longer. These suggestions do not carry any weight as far as I am concerned. 
I turn to the subject of quotas. 1 wish to mention the honourable member for Riverina. I do not like to say that he is not in the House at the moment; but every time I walk out of the House the honourable member for Riverina says: 'The honourable member for Mallee is missing'. 
Anyway, he may have some reason for being out of the chamber. The honourable member for Riverina all the time asks: Why not pay SI. 10 per bushel for all the wheat that is over-quota wheat?' Nothing would please me more than to be able to do this. I know the plight of the wheat growers. I have represented the Mallee electorate for over 24 years. I have been in the Mallee for 40 years. I know what is happening. 
lt is too long for the honourable member, of course. It is far too long for him. All the time that I have represented the Mallee I have known what has been happening. I would be tremendously happy if it was economically practicable to pay $1.10 per bushel. The honourable member for Riverina is saying these things around his and my electorates. By the way, the honourable member went into the Mallee to help 2 Labor men in the recent Victorian State elections. Both men were soundly thrashed. He had some of these very men at Barham to ask me questions. They were my political opponents in the election. He had them lined up there. 
My point is this: The honourable member for Riverina says: 'Pay $1.10 per bushel. This is good.' But what does the Australian Labor Party think about paying $1.10 per bushel for over quota wheat? That is the question. Let us look at Hansard to see what the Labor Party thinks. I have here a speech by the honourable member for Dawson who is the shadow Minister for Primary Industry in the Labor Party. He is the man who leads for the Labor Party on primary industry matters. Hansard reports the honourable member for Dawson as saying: 
It was obvious to everybody, to the industry and to the Government, that last year there would be large sums of money un repaid in respect of the 1968-69 harvest. The Government then made another advance of $440m. Looking at it in perspective now, in March 1970, we see a total of $440m as the first advance for last year's crop and approximately $250m in unsold- wheat or the equivalent still on hand. This amounts to a loan of from $650m to $700m having been made. The disturbing thing of which Parliament must take note is the very serious economic problem of the consequence of making large advances to anyone when that money has been spent and the product for which it has been advanced has not been sold. 
He goes on with that theme throughout a large part of that speech. I want honourable members to listen to the remainder of this and when doing so to exercise a little logic, lt shows what the v/heat growers would get if the Labor Party got into office. Listen to this - it is a gem: 
The Government has now been warned about what can happen by being a guarantor for large proportions of wheal that cannot bc sold at this point of time. 
The Labor Party's shadow Minister for Primary Industry. What is the use of the honourable member for Riverina saying that a certain thing should be done when the Labor Party would not support it in any circumstance, as is apparent from these remarks which are recorded in Hansard and were made by the Labor shadow Minister for Primary Industry? It would appear that if he had his way the wheat growers would not get an advance at all. The advance for next year has been already announced, 6 months before the time at which it is normally announced. The payment for next season will be $1.10 a bushel. We know that there has been a quota cut of about 20% on last year's intake, but wheat growers now know that they will get $1.10 for all the wheat that they will grow within their quota. In every other year except, I think, last year no announcement was made until the 1st November at the earliest. It is an excellent thing for the wheat growers to know exactly what the first payment will be from the Australian Wheat Board. 
The honourable member for Riverina has gone around talking about this $1.10 a bushel. But let me tell the House that in the 1968-69 pool deliveries of 515 million bushels necessitated a drawing limit of $624m, of which $566m was required for the. payment of a first advance of $1.10. This is the figure that everybody is quoting. But do honourable members opposite think that the Wheat Board runs on fresh -air? Does it not need an advance so that it can carry on this year? In 1968-69 the actual advance was $1.18 which included the Wheat Board's expenses. The next year is 1969-70. I will not read all the figures but the actual advance, with expenses, was $1.18 and not $1.10. Next year the advance to meet the payment of Si. 10 a bushel to the grower will be Si. 28 a bushel. 
This is what should be kept in mind when talking about $1.10 all the time. The Government has done a magnificent job in providing money for the wheat industry. 
Throughout this debate I have heard no-one put forward anything which would be more advantageous to the wheat growers than what is being done by the Federation and the Australia Wheat Board. Some people say that we should not have quotas. lt is a well known fact that if there were no quotas the man who would get it in the neck would be the small grower. Do not think for a moment (hat I am saying tonight that all quotas are fair. However, as far as Victoria is concerned 1 am informed that the Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Chandler,  will, during the 1-day sitting of the Victorian Government next week or the week after, bring forward some amendments that will improve the quota system as it affects the small grower. These amendments are to be introduced after some experience of what has been happening. This Bill shows very plainly that the Commonwealth Government has really nothing whatever to do with the quotas. 
The honourable member for Riverina has, of course, quoted me out of context. If I had said what he has made out I said I would not ever dare to come back into this Parliament. I have found in my experience of this House that if a man makes an incorrect statement on a certain subject any member affected by the misrepresentation may rise and make a personal explanation. But here we have an instance of a man, the honourable member for Riverina, taking various parts out of a speech, putting those parts into a document and sending them throughout my electorate for people to read. He has taken one part from a certain section of my speech and another part from another section. That anybody should do this is something beyond my comprehension. It is against all the principles of Parliamentary procedure and Parliamentary conduct. I have always given members of the Labor Party credit for being fair when they were on a subject that they understood. They understand what has happened and I say that it should never have occurred. I have proved my contention up to the hilt and I have called for a public apology but it has not been forthcoming. 
Let me say this to the Labor Party: If there were no quotas, if there was no bulk wheat all over the country, if we had been able to make sales in the normal way there would still have been trouble in this country because the great problem is that of rising costs. 
Now Labor is going for a 30-hour week. Get up to date. I have never heard a Labor man complain about a strike preventing people from loading wheat or wool. However. I now want lo speak about marketing which is the subject of this Bill. If the Australian wheat growers or the Australian producers of any other kind of primary product could sell all their production in this country, obviously primary industry would not want any assistance at ali. 
None at all. There is a lot of money in this country but it is in the wrong places, lt is a great and rich country I have put up a proposition lo a farmer's union but unfortunately no notice was taken of it. lt was said today that 1 had. in thi* Parliament, called  Mr Anthony  a messenger boy. The statement I made was delivered at a big wheal growers meeting. lt was alleged that I said that he was a messenger boy of whom you could not take any notice. That is completely wrong. I attended the big wheal growers meeting in Bendigo - and I can say this tonight because the debate is on the subject of wheal - and I suggested thai it was of no use sending men to see the Minister for Primary Industry, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  separately. I said that I had been able to bring deputations of representatives of lnc dried vines fruit industry to see the Prime Minister or the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry, and what I did say was that so far as the Minister for Primary Industry was concerned when the deputation came he had to go to the Cabinet and run backwards and forwards like a messenger bo&gt;. I did not say at any time (hat you could nol take any notice of him. If I were lo draw up a list of members of Parliament for whom I have great admiration and regard al the highest possible level. Doug Anthony's name would be on it. 1 was going on to say that a market is a place where you buy and sell. If you buy in it and sell most of your goods somewhere else it is only half a market. That is what is happening in this country. We buy in our market everything that we need for production. But we have such a large surplus of almost all primary products that we must endeavour to sell them overseas lo low standard countries which usually cannot afford to pay the Australian home market price. Secondary industry in Australia is prelected by tariffs from imports from those low standard countries. If the low standard countries could export freely to Australia they would put our secondary industries out of business. Secondary industry in this country has been built up to provide employment for Australians so that they may help to build this nation and strengthen the home market. I have suggested - this should meet with the approval of the Labor Party - that by a system of price support - I will not call it subsidy - primary producers should be able to export their surpluses and enjoy the financial advantage thai is enjoyed by secondary industries through the tariff system. 
No. Socialism is the socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. 
I have been here a long time, lt would bc very strange if I had not learned something from the Labor Party in that time. Going back a little, it was suggested thai we sell wheat to China. At some times of the year we hear daily from members of the Opposition that sales should not be made to China. I and others have pointed out that if we do not sell wheat to China somebody else will. In the Senate the Labor Party sought to call before the bar of the Senate officers of the Australian Wheat Board to divulge trade secrets regarding the price at which we were selling wheat. If the move had been successful it would have been ruinous to our markets. Labor has done everything in its power to try to spoil the markets for the wheat grower. Labor depends on strikes and such things. 
I want to tell a story about a young man who enlisted during the last war. I told him that he should get busy and do something. 
I will link the story with the Bill. The young man served his country well. I told him that if he did not get away and do something in the war and if Hitler won he would find himself working in a chain gang on the wharves or in the country. He said that the unions would not stand for it. This is Labor thinking. 
The Labor Party is so imbued with the idea of unions, socialisation and nationalisation that it cannot think straight. If we have  a  big surplus of wheat which cannot be sold overseas to earn the money to repay the Australian Wheat Board and ultimately the Reserve Bank would it not be a fair proposition to wipe the slate clean and allow this great industry to start afresh? Would this not be to our national advantage? What people forget is that the wool industry and the wheat industry are Australia's great national assets. The bottom could drop out of the minerals market at any time, but the primary industries built this country and they maintain it In the 24 years that I have been in this Parliament I have defended primary industries and advocated the best possible deal for them more than has any man since federation. 
You can be sure of that. I have been chided for asking questions  I  have been accused of being parochial.  I  have been told that I have as constituents sheep, cattle and even rabbits. Well, sheep and cattle are the things that keep this country solvent,  
You only just won Bendigo. Look what happened to  Mr Trethewey.  He may sound your death knell. The debate at Barham was very interesting. Might I say something about it? 
All I will say is that the Press said that tension hung over the town like mallee bull dust. This debate has been worth while if only to prove to the Opposition that the Commonwealth has no power to restrict production. This is one of the honoured functions of the States. This Parliament has no say in quotas. I hope that any anomalies in the quota system will be rectified. I again pay a tribute to the Minister for Primary Industry and to those people in the wheat industry who have been courageous enough to bring about quotas. Let me express the fervent hope that we soon will be able to sell more wheat overseas and that the quota system and the general depression in the wheat industry will pass away like a bad dream. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service a question: As the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has been somewhat under fire recently, what would be the alternative to this authority if it ceased to function? Would the Commonwealth Government of the day fix the hours of work, pay and conditions of employment' which, I am told, is the policy of one party, or would the strength of the appropriate trade union be the deciding factor? Tn any case, would chaos prevail and the law of the jungle rule? 
I had not intended to speak in this debate but I do support what the Government is doing. When I listened to the speech made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Poster)  1 realised the abundance of his want of knowledge. Therefore I thought it time that someone who was in this House at the time that the Snowy Mountains scheme was first mooted said something on this subject. The remarks of the honourable member for Sturt were related to a general debate. 
Why should I not do it also? I have written out some of my remarks in order to make sure that they are accurate. The Liberal-Country Party Government spent more money on water conservation in its first 3 years in office than the Labor Party had spent on water conservation since federation. It may have been the first 2 years of office but I say 3 in order to be sure. The honourable member for Sturt spoke about what the Government had done and had not done and what should be done. When I first came into this House there was some talk about the Snowy Mountains scheme but Labor was not doing much about it. It was my personal lot - if any honourable member challenges this I will show him the report of my remarks in Hansard - to jog members of the Labor Party along in this House by saying: 'Why don't you get on with the job?' This appears in Hansard. I am not talking airy-fairy stuff. I asked members of the Labor Party why they did not get moving on this project. They were talking about it but nothing was happening. What did happen then? Members of the Labor Party went to the Snowy. They say that members of the Government Parties boycotted the opening of the scheme but that is not true. 
Does the honourable member for Wilmot say that General Rankin was not there? He was there. The first sod was turned just before the election of 1949, and, of course, a representative of the Labor Party officiated. But what happened after that? All the money spent on the Snowy scheme was collected by this Government. It was this Government which spent the money on this great project in the Snowy Mountains and the Labor Party can claim practically nothing from its success. The Labor Party may have had some experts along to tell it that the project was a good thing. Labor thought it was a great election stunt. Everybody knew this at the time. The honourable member for Sturt has just come to this place and he does not know anything of the history of this great scheme. 
The honourable member for Dawson probably knows less about it. I am telling honourable members exactly what happened. When speaking in this House 1 never refer to personalities. Everybody knows this. However I do speak against people who make outrageous statements which cannot be substantiated by facts. The position is that the Government has gone into all the pros and cons of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and has introduced this Bill after much thought. Now the Labor Party is trying to find some way of getting off the toboggan. For a few months after the last election it appeared that the Labor Party was ascending. But I have been looking very closely at what has been happening since then and it is apparent that Labor has run its race. The Labor Party is like a horse in a 2-mile race which goes to the front for a while. But now Labor is falling back into the field. By the time the next election is held Labor will be only entering the straight when the Government is passing the winning post. That is what is happening. 
I do not like to criticise people and have never done so unless they have made an unjustifiable attack on me. 
I have not done so unless they have attacked me unjustifiably, in which case I am quite entitled to stick up for myself, as I am able to do and as I have done on so many occasion in this House. Irrigation has been referred to in this debate. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  spoke last night about building all sorts of things. He said that we would have so many people in Australia in 20 or 30 years time that we would have to build an additional 8 Eucumbene dams. He mentioned some huge figures. I interjected very quietly and said that by that time we would have pipelining. I remind honourable members that in some parts of Australia, including the Mallee electorate which I represent, about 90% of the water is lost. It is said that 97% of the water is lost but I always leave a margin in order to be correct. It is said that 90% ot t.ie water is lost on the way from the storage to the consumer in certain areas, and 50% is lost generally. Pipelining would cost a fair amount of money but not as much as 8 big reservoirs. 
In terms of water conservation, pipelining would be equal to duplicating all the water storages in Australia. I am not saying that pipelining is required all over Australia but it is wanted in areas where seepage and evaporation is responsible for the waste of water that is very costly to conserve. Pipelining is a project of the future but I have been advocating it for years. I have been saying that we should make more use of the water rather than build a lot more storages. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  I suggest to the honourable member for Mallee that he should not advocate pipelining while speaking during this stage of the debate on this Bill 
I will finish on this point. I support this Bill. I did not intend to make a speech and would not have spoken except that I heard the errors that the honourable member for Sturt had fallen into. With pipelining we will have sufficient water in the future. After all, in the very best of years we can store only a certain amount of water in reservoirs and we must make the best use of the water that we can conserve. 
Is the Treasurer aware that the chief objective of 'he Murray Valley Development League is, as the name suggests, the development of the Murray Valley? Does he know that the League is a non profit organisation covering regions of the Murray Valley in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia and has its headquarters at Albury in New South Wales? Will the Treasurer during the pre-Budget discussions give urgent and, I hope, favourable consideration to allowing donations to the League to be claimed as taxation deductions? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, in introducing the subject with which I intend to deal, I desire to read a question that I asked on 15th May 1970 of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  As reported at page 2240 of Hansard, I said: 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that a taxpayer who receives only, say, 20% of his income from primary production is regarded for taxation deduction purposes as a primary producer and receives primary producer taxation deductions calculated on his total income, irrespective of its source? If so, 1 ask: Will the Treasurer investigate means of correcting this  anomoly? 
Some people may not regard this as an anomoly, but 1 do for the simple reason that these taxation deductions are special taxation deductions for primary producers with the objective of assisting our great primary industries. 
I will give one instance of what I mean. A block of land of perhaps 500 acres or 600 acres - it could be even 1,000 acres - in a rough state comes up for sale and is put to auction. When it is offered, let us assume that a man with a big income - a big city business man - bids for that land. Such a person can pay much more for that land than can a young man in this country yet we desire that young men should have the opportunity to take part in primary industry. Usually, a property such as this, needs clearing, seed beds must be prepared and other things must be done to bring it to a stage ready for production. The cost of all those things that must be done is a taxation deduction in the year in which the money is spent on those things. 
So, the man with the very big income spends the money on these improvements and receives the taxation deduction. The taxation deduction is based on his very large income. What is the position of the young man buying such a property with very little money and hoping to start out in life in this way? For the first few years after he purchases the property, he would not have any income at all. He would be working to clear the property, to prepare the seed beds or to do whatever was required to bring that property up to the stage when it would be ready for production. He would not have any income. He would not receive the benefit of taxation deduction. The taxation deduction varies according to a person's income. Therefore, a city business man with a large income is placed in a position in which he enjoys a much more favourabe advantage in this respect than does the young man or anyone else who wants to start out in life on such a property. I think that is an anomoly. It is the anomoly to which I was referring. 
We know also that the businessman who buys this type of property is generally speaking an absentee owner. This is not something to be desired. So many matters come into our consderation of this problem that are against the interests of the primary producer and of course favour the big business man. Because of these things, I thought that the best thing that I could do was to put the subject up to the Treasurer so that he might look into it to try to overcome the anomolies to which I have referred by making the law provide that a man has to receive, for instance, at least 80% of his income - I put that figure forward, but it is subject to change - from primary production to be entitled to the taxation deduction. That would cut across the possibility of some opportunists coming into primary industry just to secure taxation deduction. 
It has been said that, at the present time, the situation is changing and that a lot of business men would not wish to buy into land. But is this true? We know that the value of land has fallen considerably and that few sales are being made throughout the country. The very few sales that are being made are at figures at least 50%, 60% and perhaps even 70% lower, in certain areas where certain products are grown, than the prices would have been 3 years or 4 years ago. So, a dual advantage awaits the big city business man who buys into land at this time. He builds up property. He has a capital gain in the actual value of the property. There is always the chance that primary industry will be in recession for a very short period only. I hope that this is so. If it is, the big city business man has the chance that the property will increase in value. 
Now. primary producers up and down this country think that this is an anomaly 
I agree with them, or they agree with me - which every way honourable members like to put it. I think that this anomoly is something that should be overcome in the way in which I have suggested. 
Yes. I will do that. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has asked me to give the answer that the Treasurer gave. I did not intend to take up time by reading this answer because I have another subject with which I wish to deal. But, as the honourable member is a friend of mine, I will do so. The Treasuer said: 
As with so many other matters, this matter is not quite as simple as it appears on the surface. It so happens that a good many primary producers do have a taxable income from their nonfarming activities that is greater than their taxable income from farming activities. Their farm income in the first place is written down considerably for taxation purposes by very numerous deductions for primary production which the Government has built up over the years in the taxation laws. 
In many cases, people whose lives are spent on farms and farming properties do gain greater income out of some outside investment than they do out of farming income per se. This is particularly so al the moment. A large number of people who may be thought of nominally as Pitt Street farmers are in fact genuine full time primary producers who have been unfortunate particularly in the last few years not to earn as much income from this strenuous activity as they have from a perhaps limited number of investments which they have been able to acquire. 
That was certainly not the answer I was seeking as a practical solution to the problem I put forward. This morning I asked a question which honourable members seemed to greet with some levity. I said that the chief object of the Murray Valley Development League was, as its name suggests, the development of the Murray Valley. Of course it has other objectives, too. I asked the Treasurer whether he would give urgent consideration, when Budget discussions were taking place, to permitting donations to this League to be allowable as taxation deductions. From its headquarters in Albury the League works in regions along the Murray Valley. Committee members and voluntary helpers of the League in the regions receive no pay whatever. The League is a non-profit organisation. Its slogan indicates that it seeks to have a million people in the Murray Valley, and this is not beyond the bounds of possibility. 
This great fertile valley should be developed and members of the League are dedicated to that proposition. With more water becoming available development should accelerate. If my suggestion of piping water came into operation, as it surely will, still more water would be available. We lose too much water through evaporation and seepage. Piping would give us 50% more water from the present storages and would, therefore, duplicate all the storages in Australia. The fertile soil in the Murray Valley will grow almost anything if given water. It can grow crops that we can export, and most crops can be grown best under irrigation. Even wheat, which we grow on dry land, can give a bigger yield if water is available. Fat lambs, fat cattle and everything that is dependent on a good supply of water can be produced in the Murray Valley and development of the Valley in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia will do much to lift Australia's 
Standard  of living, to the benefit of this great Commonwealth. 
I will not keep the House very long - for only about 5 minutes, lt has been said that no member of the Australian Country Party has spoken during the debate. 1 listened to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  attack the Country Party. Since I have been a member of this House I have learned, if nothing else, that members of Parliament always attack a party which they fear. If the honourable member for Dawson fears any party, he fears the Country Party. There is not the slightest doubt about that. The honourable member spoke about this subject. He said that he wanted to hear from members of the Country Party. If he had been awake, intelligent and aware of what was happening he would realise that in speeches in the last 2 months members of the Country Party have mentioned tariffs on quite a number of occasions. 
I will show them to the honourable member in Hansard. The Country Party does not need always to speak during a debate such as this. The honourable member for Dawson sets himself up as an expert. He said that he believed in this and that and he did not accept that. I do not accept a lot of things that he said but I do not speak against him in a personal vein. He attacked the Country Party because he fears it. The honourable member said that the Labor Party believes in secondary industry, in protection, in supporting primary industries and in a number of other matters. Why has the Australian Labor Party been in office for only 17i years during 70 years? 
The Country Party knows that progress has robbed the primary industries of being big employers of labour. With big machines a farmer can work 2,000 acres of wheatland with not more than 2 employees to help. The Country Party wants to build up the population. Secondary industry is the big employer. The Country Party supports tariffs but does not support tariffs gone mad altogether. I believe tariffs are protecting our secondary industries against imports from countries with a low wage standard. If we allowed their goods to be imported, most of our secondary industries would be put out of business. This is practical talk, not some of that airy-fairy stuff that we have been hearing. The Country Party believes that primary industry should receive equivalent financial support so that it can enjoy the same progress and prosperity as is being enjoyed by secondary industry through tariff protection. The honourable member for Dawson cannot say much truthfully against the Country Party because it has always been to the fore as the specialist party for primary industry. But the Country Party realises that this country needs more population. An increased population means more consumers in the home market. The home market is the best market if only it can be built up enough. If primary industry could sell all its goods in that market where it buys the goods it needs for production, then the industry would not need any assistance. Therefore the Country Party says that primary industry should have price support for surpluses of goods that are sold overseas of a nature that will give the same financial advantage as secondary industry is getting through tariffs. 
I have not been influenced by anything I have heard here tonight. I want to refer to one or two things that have been said. While it is in my memory I wish to refer to what the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has just said about committees sitting on Saturday. Surely this is only a dream. When  Mr Chifley  was Prime Minister in the time Labor was in office the House had to rise because on occasions there was not a quorum. We were supposed to sit till 4 o'clock on Friday but because there was not a quorum the House had to rise. Things are just about getting to that stage now. After all, everybody wants to get away early on a Friday. No-one is prepared to see it through. There are a handful of people here on Friday so what chance has the honourable member for Kingston got of getting honourable members here on a Saturday. It is just a dream that you cannot take into consideration. I have been here a long time and have seen what happens. 
Let me refer to one or two other things that have been said. The right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  said that this proposal suits Sydney and Melbourne members; it suits them admirably. He proved it suited Sydney and Melbourne because he supported it. Apparently most honourable members say they will not remain in Canberra. I would like to ses a show of hands to know how many would stay in Canberra but that cannot be done. Other honourable members say we could have committee meetings at the weekend. As far as their electorates are concerned, honourable members do not lose votes by being here. They lose votes by not being here. If I went to some function in the Mallee electorate when Parliament was sitting I would have - without exaggerating - a dozen people come to me and ask why I was not in Canberra. Apparently members say they are very pleased to be in their electorates because they are not important enough to be in Canberra to attend to their job. This is the way things work out. As the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said, this is the place. It is also our place to be in the chamber as far as quorums are concerned. How often have I heard honourable members come into the chamber when there is a vote to be taken and say: 'What are we voting on?' No-one tells them. They just follow whatever" is happening. This happens all the time. 
I listened very carefully to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who decided against the proposal for a reason that has nothing to do with the subject. My colleague, the honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  said that I do not live near airports. I do. I live near 2 airports located 30 and 68 miles away but the planes always run in opposite directions from the way I want them to. That is how the timetables work out. I heard honourable members say that the Western Australians have to sit in an aeroplane for 3i or 4 hours. That is a luxury. It is said that everyone puts his own case. Let me put mine. I have put it here often; let me put it again. The railway goes to the town where I live but it is impossible for me under the proposed system to go home at the weekend by public transport. Why should I not have the same opportunity as honourable members who live in Sydney and Melbourne? As soon as the House gets up on Friday - they will be asking for leave to get away early - they will go home. There is no doubt about that. Do honourable members think that of those from Sydney and Melbourne more than 2 or 3 will stay here? I think not. They will go home and there is not the slightest doubt about that. 
When I think of sittings since I came here, when the Chifley Government was in office and whilst this Government has been in office, the main thing I think about is the late nights. They are the things we should overcome. After all, if we sit till 3 o'clock in the morning for 3 or 4 days and until 4 p.m. on Fridays what good are we in our electorates? I find the young men are the first to go to sleep in this House so do not blame the old men. I am speaking of the average. I would not have a chance of getting home. That would not matter very much. I want to say very definitely that I am against the proposition. I will vote against it because if I looked at what it says I could say: 'This is fine - Tuesday 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.' But this can be changed afterwards. It would be fine if it were 2 p.m. to 10.30 p.m., 10 a.m. to 10.30 p.m., 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. If that were right I would vote for it. But 1 turned the page of the report and found that this is subject to what the Government may decide to do. It could decide to sit, not till 10.30 p.m. hut till 5 o'clock in the morning because at 10.30 p.m. or 11 p.m. the question relating to the adjournment of the House would be put and if the Government wanted to carry on it could negative the question and the House would continue to sit just the same as ever. Therefore, that proposal will not overcome late night sittings and that is one thing that I want to overcome. 1 am an individualist in this job and I think I have some supporters. I want to do away with late nights. I am opposed to the proposition for a number of reasons which 1 will not detail tonight. When the proposition comes to the vote I will vote against it and that will prove my sincerity. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  was quite correct when be said that one cannot be in 2 places at once, At times a member has to decide whether to attend a committee meeting or to present himself in the House. Of course a member might at any time be in Kings Hall. But my point is that a member cannot be here and at a committee meeting at the same time. This is perhaps the crux of the whole argument. I have always maintained that when the House is sitting this is the most important place in Australia. I was in good company years ago when the late  Mr Ben  Chifley said to me: This is the most important place in Australia when Parliament is sitting. I cannot understand why members want to get away to some small show or to open some small function when Parliament is in session.' 
I have listened to this debate and have been greatly amused by what has been said by some honourable members. They said that you must be here in the House. 1 know that some honourable members who have spoken have been away for a fortnight at a time. I will not name them so they need not get frightened. Some of them are seldom in the chamber. Sometimes they are not even within call of the bells. Yet from the way they stood and spoke tonight one would think they attended regularly. This is completely wrong. 
 The honourable member for Hindmarsh who has just interjected remarked a little while ago, by way of interjection also, that members know what the position is. The people outside this Parliament who read Hansard would think that I, as the honourable member for Mallee, rarely attend the Parliament. That is what the honourable member for Hindmarsh wants them to think. He misrepresented me by his interjection. People reading the cold print in Hansard would think: "This Turnbull does not attend very often. He must be away in the Mallee all the time.' Interjections of that kind are tremendously unfair and do not do much for the prestige of the man who makes them. I have always tried to extend goodwill to the honourable member for Hindmarsh and I am trying to do so now. Why he tries to stab me in the back in that way is beyond my comprehension. [ cannot understand him. 
I want to develop my general thought about what honourable members have said in this debate. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  said that members should be present in the chamber at major moments. I ask: How are we to know when the major moments will occur? If I were away in the Mallee electorate or the Riverina electorate and something happened here and the bells were rung, then naturally I could not hear them. Therefore we have to be here all the time. There is no doubt about that and everybody should realise it. As for major moments, if a constituent said to me: *I want to come to Canberra and hear a good debate. Will you let me know when one is coming on?' 1 would not attempt to advise him. One might expect a good debate and it could turn out to be one of the driest ever heard. lt would be different if I met a constituent outside this chamber in Kings's Hall and he said: 'What is going on in the House? Is there anything interesting going on?' I could say: 'No, it is very dull in there but if you want to go inside I will get you a ticket and you can have a look'. He could then come inside this chamber and by chance hear the best debate of the whole year. In the twinkling of an eye some remark could bring up a good debate. Therefore you must be on the spot all the time. 
Referring to the point about committee meetings, the honourable member for Hindmarsh said that when he is not present in the chamber he sits in his office and casually listens to the debate. That may be all right. He may pick up some points and decide to come into the chamber if there is a matter about which he wishes to speak. But the point is that you cannot be at a committee meeting or at a meeting with heads of departments and listen in to the debate here at the same time. It is impossible. Therefore, a member must decide either to go to his office and listen, like the honourable member for Hindmarsh, or he must be present in the chamber. He must do one thing or the other. The course followed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh may be second best but being present in the chamber is the best. That is the way things work out. 
As far as the quorum is concerned it is my opinion that a quorum is called only when attention is drawn to the state of the House. The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that the House was being pinpricked all the time by the calling of quorums, yet I heard him say tonight that he has never heard of a member of the Government parties call a quorum. Who is doing the pinpricking? It must be members of the Opposition. 
Everything about pinpricking is wrong. Calling a quorum for this purpose means that it is not a genuine call. That is what is happening so why do members of the Opposition do these things? I have often heard members say: 
Call a quorum because this will be a good speech and I want a lot of members to hear it.' We have often heard such things said. The calling of a quorum is a safeguard. If the size of a quorum was reduced to 25 then the number of those present could still get down to 6. Do not ask me what was the smallest number of members I have seen in this chamber because I do not want to state it. However it was tremendously low. When the number of honourable members present in the House gets down to, say, 4 some honourable member will usually draw the attention, of the occupant of the Chair to the state of the House, particularly when the House is debating important legislation. 
I note that the report of the Standing Orders Committee sets out the percentages of the memberships of other legislatures required to form a quorum. In the House of Commons in the United Kingdom a quorum is constituted when  6b %  of the membership of 630 is present. The operative number of members that one can get into the House to deal with the legislation is important and not the total number of members. The number of members required to be present in this chamber to form a quorum is about the same as the number required to be present in the House of . Commons in the United Kingdom, but if the number is reduced to 21 it will be a lot lower than the number in the United Kingdom. The main thing is to have a working majority or a working number present in the House. However, it would be unsatisfactory if the number required to constitute a quorum were small. If the number required to constitute a quorum is, say, 21, and the number of members present gets down to 14 it means that the number present is only 7 under a quorum, but if the number required to constitute a quorum is fixed at 41 and the number of members present is 10 below what constitutes a quorum it means that there are still 31 members present. It is unlikely in that event that a quorum would be called for. I believe that it is necessary to keep the number of members required to constitute a quorum at the highest possible level. I made up my mind very quickly that I would not support the proposition which has been put forward. I think we must keep our quorum requirements at the present level at least. 
When the laughter and the interjections have finished I will continue my remarks. 1 am not in a tremendous hurry. If honourable members opposite want to delay things 1 will accommodate them. The Opposition seems to be deriving great merriment out of what I have been saying. I do not know why. Nevertheless, I repeat that I am against reducing the number- of members required to constitute a quorum. I believe that honourable members should be in attendance at the Parliament whenever possible. It has been said that honourable members cannot be in attendance in the chamber all the time. I agree with that remark. But I believe that they should try to be in attendance at the Parliament 100% of the time. Some honourable members never miss a day's attendance at the Parliament and I give them credit for this. I repeat that the necessity for a quorum to be in attendance in ihe chamber is very important. It is a safeguard and ensures that the Parliament continues as a democratic institution. 
-! wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development, who is also the  Chairman  of the River Murray Commission. Is the building of the Dartmouth Dam being delayed because certain members of the Opposition moved for further unnecessary investigations into the Chowilla proposition and because members of the Australian Labor Party in the South Australian Parliament have used the circumstances for their personal political advantage. As reports by water conservation experts strongly favour the building of the Dartmouth Daa, and as my constituents and others urgently require their share of the increased water supply it will provide, will the Minister for National Development do all in his power to speed up the building of the very necessary Dartmouth Dam? 
As is fairly well known in this House, for many years I have been an advocate of earlier risings at night. I agree with some honourable members who have said that we cannot legislate sensibly or effectively at, say 3 o'clock in the morning, but I think that the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  is far too optimistic when he suggests that because of this motion the House will cease sitting at midnight. It will do nothing of the sort. In certain circumstances it will cease at midnight but in other circumstances it could still continue sitting if necessary until, say, 6 o'clock in the morning. This is how it could work out, so he should not be too pleased about it and claim that we have won a great victory. I do not feel like a victor although for years 1 have advocated earlier nights. I feel I am back where I started many years ago. I believe in reasonable sitting times and I would support early risings, but there must be some reason for it. I would rather sit at 9 o'clock in the morning instead of 10.30 if the House rose 1+ hours earlier at night. lt is interesting to refer to the hours worked by other people in the community. Banks commence operations at 10 a.m. At one time if a man were late for work he was asked whether he was working banking hours. We commence our work in the morning approximately at bank hours but the banks close a long time before the House rises, and so do all the stores and factories. The Factories Act would not permit factory workers, shop assistants or people in other occupations to work the hours that we do. lt is a fallacy that members sit for a certain period and when the House adjourns - it is not really a recess; I am told that the proper term is adjourns - say at the end of November until about February they are on holidays. I meet people in the Mallee who say to me: 'Oh, well, you are on holidays now'. This is the greatest fallacy that has ever been circulated throughout Australia. Honourable members are working all the time if they are doing their job. Those honourable members who have to travel long distances cover hundreds or even thousands of miles during the adjournment. We do not come here for a short period, put up with late sittings and certain inconveniences in performing all the duties that must go into our work in this House, then return home during the adjournment and lie down on our beds enjoying what has been called a holiday. 
I would support a proposal to sit at 9 a.m. and rise  H  hours earlier at night. No-one would be inconvenienced except perhaps the Cabinet, which has to meet often. Honourable members would not be inconvenienced through meeting a little earlier than we do now. I know that some people may say: 'You come from the country, and country people get up early'. Some honourable members here would agree with that. I do not want to delay the House, but I cannot see the victory that was referred to by the honourable member for Wilmot until we get to a civilised state when we rise in this House at a reasonable time and do not sit unearthly hours as we have been doing for so many years. 
The Minister for 

 Primary Industry will recall discussions in connection with difficulties in successfully marketing fat stock, especially sheep and lambs, in Victoria owing to insufficient meat inspectors and his undertaking to endeavour to overcome the problem. Has any action been taken in this regard? 
My question refers to the proposed increase in excise on motor spirit as set out in the Budget and, as more than one department is concerned, I direct it to the Prime Minister. Does he know that consumers are perplexed regarding the price of petrol? Does he know that in Victoria it is selling at many different prices per gallon and that in less than 1 hour's travelling one can see bowser notices offering 3c to 8c per gallon off the general price? Does this indicate that the present base price of motor spirit in Victoria is far too high and that even with the addition of the proposed 3c it could be reduced or at least not altered? Will the Prime Minister cause urgent investigations to be made into this most important subject? 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has suggested that the Parliament sit during meal hours. He did add that he did not believe that this was a practical suggestion at the moment but that it would be a good idea in the future. The House is now debating this idea. Why I do not know. It is not the subject of the debate although a lot has been said about it. I am against that idea. It appears now that we are to reduce the size of a quorum. If we do this the result will be the same as when we sit late at night and have a running supper. Honourable members have seen what happens on those occasions. This House is then practically empty because honourable members move out quickly at meal times. 
This House has to decide whether committees will sit or the Parliament will sit. Committees might sit while the Parliament is sitting but honourable members have to decide which is the most important. There is no doubt that the sitting of the House is the most important. I do not believe that committees should sit while this House is in session other than on special occasions, such as happens when the Parliamentary Committee on Public Works has to sit with permission by the House. I have said it before and I will say it again - when this House is sitting it is the most important place in Australia. 
I now want to refer to the meeting times. I do not suppose that half an hour one way or the other matters very much. I am not greatly concerned about this. However, this new scheme was brought forward with the idea that honourable members would remain in Canberra at weekends. I have not yet heard any honourable member say that he will remain here at weekends but perhaps there will be some. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  is trying to interject so I ask him whether he will remain here. I really do not want him to answer because I could not get answers from everybody and it would not be fair. We have to look at this matter without political bias. 
The main point I want to deal with relates to the time we finish at night. There should be an automatic suspension at, say, 12 midnight. I do not think this should be flexible and I think there should be a definite time when the motion for the adjournment is put. I am not speaking for the benefit of this Government or for any other government but for the House. Unless the finishing time is definite the 
Minister in charge of the House can close the debate when he wishes. He will close it if the debate is going against the Government. If the debate favours the Government he will allow it to go on and on. This is what happens now and it would not matter whether it was the coalition parties in office or the Australian Labor Party. I believe we should allow a reasonable time for the adjournment debate, as we do now. At present we finish at 12 midnight. AH honourable members know what time the House finishes. If the debate is closed they cannot put forward the matters they wish to raise, and we cannot help that. But what has ever come out of the adjournment debates? This is the question. The point is that such debates are either a victory for the Opposition or for the Government, but there is no great benefit to the nation. After all, nothing is moved or seconded and no legislation results. Honourable members have to come into the House at another time and put definite propositions. 1 want to sum up my argument. 1 am absolutely against sitting during meal hours. I think this would be wrong. As for the sitting hours, I do not think half an hour one way or the other makes any difference. As for the motion for the adjournment of the House, I think this should be moved at a certain time and the length of the debate defined, lt should not be left to anybody to cut the debate short or to permit it to go on longer  so as to gain political advantage. This should not happen. 1 voted against the new sitting arrangements but after taking everything into consideration 1 believe they may be satisfactory. The real point was that members would stay in Canberra at weekends. It was said that they would then attend to their committees. It was suggested that this would be done even on Saturdays. I do not believe this. I think the people of Australia insist that there must be a reasonable number of people in this chamber of the Parliament. After all, many things are done here which are either in their interest or against their interest. Therefore the government of this country, whether the Opposition becomes the government or the present Government continues for another 20 years, must give a fair deal to the population of the Commonwealth. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  suggests that honourable members should walk up to the  speaker  and tell him that he has been talking too long. This would not be allowed in this chamber. Those are Rafferty's rules. We cannot allow this sort of thing in the National Parliament. He is saying that someone may want a long time to speak. Perhaps this will happen once in 12 months or once in 6 months. Does the honourable member mean that to try to comply with this proposal a lot of honourable members will be prevented from speaking at all? I listened very attentively to the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  He spoke words of wisdom. The point is that if this amendment is carried the very opposite will happen to what the honourable member for Lang claimed will happen for the simple reason that more members will get the opportunity to speak. If a member cannot state his case fully in 20 minutes he can at least put the salient points and people will know where he stands. 
I will vote for reducing the time alloted for speeches to allow more members to come in. 1 do not agree with the honourable member for Lang that it is the new members who feel that they do not get an opportunity to speak. Some older members may feel that way too. He spoke of bis 17 years in the Parliament. I remember when he first came into this place. He wanted to speak then and he still wants to speak now and again. I want to see as many members as possible get the opportunity to speak, and with that objective in view I will vote for a reduction in the time allotted for speeches in order to give all members the opportunity at some stage to say what they want to say on behalf of the constituents they represent. 
I address my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. As there is an urgent need to sell more of our primary and secondary products overseas, I ask: Will the Minister for Trade and Industry appoint at least 3 efficient and accredited salesmen, not necessarily with academic degrees, to travel overseas and continually engage in finding markets for our products throughout the world, working in cooperation with all those who represent Australia? Also, is it a fact that Trade Commissioners are not necessarily good salesmen and that many appointments of those to represent Australia are chiefly dependent on university degrees held? Finally, does (he Minister know that no private enterprise with goods to sell would remain long in business unless it employed efficient salesmen of high integrity? 
I just want to say one or two things regarding the estimates for the Parliament. In most years I have spoken on this subject. It is rather interesting to note that last year when these estimates were being debated, of the first 5 members who spoke only one is here now. It is also interesting to note that on this occasion, of the 5 members who have already spoken only one represents a rural electorate. All the rest are city members. Generally speaking, a city member puts up a different proposition from a country member, largely for certain reasons that are well known. Most honourable members have been talking about more money for members, more money for buildings and more money for facilities so that honourable members can do a better job. The history of this country shows that since federation 70 years ago some wonderful men, by their wisdom and by what they did in this House, did much to build this nation. Perhaps they did not have the facilities we have now. I atn of the opinion that a parliament is only as good &lt;is the members who are elected to it, who sit in the Parliament, who speak on different subjects and who meet in the Party rooms. One honourable member who spoke today said: 'When I came in here as a new member 1 looked around and I wondered how some of the members ever got in here.' 
Perhaps he did, but he may have been looking past me and he may have seen the honourable member. I do not deal in wisecracks of that sort because they do not mean anything. When I first came to Canberra I thought I would find some wonderful men here, and I did. But I found a lot of people like myself who are only a cross-section of the community. For a democracy to operate the Parliament of the Commonwealth must consist of men from all walks of life. I appreciate every member here. 
As 1 said earlier, honourable members are asking for more and more money. People are talking about this country being in danger of inflation, already threatened by inflation or in the throes :&gt;f inflation. J ask: What will more money do? Will it help much to fight inflation? Of course it will not. The country man's view is different from the city roan's view. It has been said that a member of Parliament received a certain salary and then the public servant received a rise, lt was said that the member's salary should somehow be tied to the public servant's salary, which meant that we would get a rise, too. If the member received a certain rate of salary and the public servant received a much higher rate I should think that the public servant's salary was too high. It has been said that certain men in the Public Service are receiving more than their masters. I do not use the word 'masters' myself. I do not believe that we are masters of anybody. The public servants are public men in public offices and as such are greatly appreciated. 
The Country Party's policy, which I support, is to keep inflation down as much as possible because men in the great primary producing industries do not have the protection of the tariffs or the protection of arbitration courts basing salaries on what the industry can afford Let us not forget that in 98 per cent of arbitration cases it is secondary industry that benefits. Much has been said about committees. I say that committees should not meet when the House Ls sitting. No-one can say that there is not room in the House this afternoon. There is plenty of room for honourable members here. It is the duty of honourable members to be in this House and to know what is being said. I would not have known what other honourable members had said previously today if I had not been here to hear them. There are so many papers, books and statements to read, the chances are that I would not have had the opportunity, nor would other honourable members, to read Hansard closely to find out what has happened. When it comes to a vote honourable members walk into this House, look around to see where their Party is sitting and go and sit there. This is the party system. We must have the party system. Honourable members say: 'What are we voting on?' and then look around to see where members of their own Party are sitting. They then move across and sit in that section of the House whether they are voting yes' or 'no*. Some people say: 'Would it not be wonderful thing if we could do away with the party system and we could have all independents?' This country would be bankrupt in less than a week while Parliament was sitting, for the simple reason that when it came to increasing pensions everybody who wanted to please his constituents would vote for it, and when it came to reducing taxation all honourable members would be voting on the one side of the House. We have a party system and, in the party system we have an executive. lt is like a big company with a board of directors and a chairman. These people hold the purse strings. That is what happens in this House now. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the representation of the Australian Labor Party in Parliament since federation. The table has been supplied to me by the Library. 
Later reduced to ten. The eleventh place was created on this occasion because two men tied for tenth place in the Caucus ballot. This is the only instance where the numbers in a Labor Cabinet exceeded those in the preceding Anti-Labor Cabinet at the time of its relinquishing office. 
I want to comment on the matter that  1  have incorporated. Australia became a federation almost  70  years ago and since then the Australian Labor Party has occupied the treasury bench for only  16  years and  3  months. It was never in office for very long before a change in government came about. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  referred to the number of people who wanted to see members representing city electorates about social services and all sorts of other things. He either said or implied that members representing city areas had a lot more work to do than members representing country areas. A large electorate like Kalgoorlie has one or two big centres to which the member is able to go and to meet people. But in an electorate like Mallee, which I represent, the people are spread all over the place and the member is travelling much of the time to attend meetings and to consult people. The statement made by the honourable member for Adelaide was definitely not based on experience. If a member representing a city area wishes to meet his constituents he has only to advertise that at a given time he will be at a certain place in order to report to electors about what has gone on in the Parliament.  His  constituents can go to meet him because they have to travel only  10  or  15  miles at the outside. But in a large electorate constituents might have to travel hundreds of miles. We cannot expect them to travel that distance in order to speak to their member. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  referred to the fact that members of Parliament have only one secretary who is located back in Adelaide or some other centre. This is quite true. But he also said some Ministers have about  14  advisers in the House, or somewhere else, and about  600  other people who prepare their speeches and do other things. In order to be fair about this point we should say that we have a staff of research officers in the Library, all of whom are courteous and prepared to assist us, if necessary, in preparing speeches. We have many other people round about who give us great assistance. Therefore it is a great exaggeration to say that a Minister or someone else has  600  assistants. After all, we all have more than just one secretary to assist us and I do not mean someone to do our shorthand and typing. There are other ways of getting assistance and these must be considered. 
I wrote down one or two points mentioned by speakers in this debate. The honourable member for Adelaide suggested that a research worker could be employed. 
He said that the experience of working in Parliament would be good for a young graduate. We are not here to pay money out in order to give experience to young graduates; we are here to get work done and to put legislation into effect. Mention was also made of the new Parliament House. The new Parliament House project has the support of this Parliament. It has my support. But a lot of people agree with my opinion that there is no great hurry for it at this time. The present building is serving us pretty well just now. However, I understand the position of a member who shares an office with 2 or 3 other members. Therefore we should have the new Parliament House as soon as possible. The millions of dollars that have to be set aside do not seem to mean anything to some people. I remember people saying that one of the Budgets introduced by  Sir Arthur  Fadden, when he was Treasurer, was of great dimensions'. They asked: 'What would it matter if another 500,000 or 2m or 3m were added to it? What difference would it make?' Of course it would not matter if the money could be found. But  Sir Arthur  Fadden said: 'If we were to implement all that people ask, I would want 5 times the amount of money that I now get from the taxpayers. We would have to increase taxation and other sources of revenue for the Treasury in order to get 5 times as much as we now have.' That is not a practical thing to do under any conditions. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh also referred to reports which have to be read by members of Parliament. I said that we do not have time to read them and he said: 'Speak for yourself. I read all the reports'. But the honourable member for Hindmarsh confined his remarks to reports from the Department of Labour and National Service. I cannot let things go without mentioning this matter and putting it right because he first referred to all reports. I say very definitely that no honourable member reads all the papers and reports sent to him. This would be a physical impossibility in spite of the fact that some time ago quick reading classes were held. Those classes seem to have died out - I do not know why - because I have not heard much about them. I have not heard many people say that they can now read much quicker than other people. 
As I have only about 3 minutes of my time left and 1 am talking about reading, I want to say that I deplore the lack of oratory in this House which has come about because members read speeches. How can a man make a telling point when he reads his speech word for word? I have said on occasions that 80 per cent of members read at least 85 per cent of their speeches and I have said that 30 per cent of members read the lot word for word. I tried many years ago to stop this practice of reading speeches but I got nowhere. Honourable members used to say:  'Mr Speaker,  I draw your attention to the fact that the honourable member is reading his speech.' I did not do this but others did. The  Speaker  would always say: 'I cannot tell whether he is reading his speech or is referring to voluminous notes.' After it got to that stage 1 said in this House one day that we should be sincere. I said that if we do not implement the standing order that says that a member shall not read his speech then it ought to be eliminated because we must be sincere. I was hoist by my own petard because the Standing Orders Committee eliminated the standing order aimed at preventing members reading their speeches. I was not a member in the days of the great speakers of the past, such as Alfred Deakin, but I doubt very much that they read their speeches. I have not the slightest doubt in the world that they stood up and spoke without reading. If a member cannot stand and speak on a subject under discussion he has not done his work properly. If a member reads his speech word for word it may not be his speech at all. That is why I refer to this practice as representation by proxy. I could get people who know more about certain subjects than I do to write speeches for me and then merely read them in this House. The speeches would appear in Hansard and would be considered to be mine but that would not be the case. The same thing applies to other honourable members. Representation by proxy is not in the best interests of this Parliament or of the Commonwealth. 
It seems strange that the Opposition should find fault with these bounties by saying that they do not reach the primary producer or assist him to any great extent. The Opposition has no proof of this and leaves it as the old Scottish verdict says, 'not proven' and under suspicion about whether the primary producer gets it or not. This seems to me to be most unfair. Members of the Opposition have the chance to get any kind of research officer , to look into these propositions. In fact they boast about how they can speak on primary industry and all those things that assist or retard primary production. Therefore I put it. to this House that it is a fair proposition that, if the suspicion is well founded, facts should be revealed. 
We think that the primary producer gets a great benefit from these bounties. It has been said in this House by one honourable member that the primary producer does not get a cheque for any amount of money. Take the $27m bounty for the dairying industry as an illustration. It has been said that the dairy farmer does not get a cheque for the bounty. But it is in every cheque that he gets from the factory. It builds up his income. Primary industries and particularly the dairy farmers would consider it an outrage if the $27m bounty were withdrawn. Of course the industry would soon be bankrupt. The dairy farmers certainly do not get a separate cheque for the bounty but the bounty appears in every cheque they get when they are being paid for their butterfat. The same thing happens with the bounty on these fertilisers. The primary producer gets the benefit. 
If the Opposition considers this is not so it has the chance to look into these matters and have research done for it if it does not want to do it itself. Let honourable members opposite reveal in this House, if they can, that these bounties are corrupt and wrong. I would be the first one to urge an inquiry by the Opposition. As the Government is satisfied with what is being done, and as it is the instigator of many of these bounties, I do not believe it should make an inquiry. The Opposition says that the bounties are wrong, but it leaves the matter in a state of suspicion. Therefore I think what they have said today has not been helpful. If the Opposition has a case worthy of mention I hope that it will raise it in the House, having first researched it thoroughly. I trust that any case brought forward will be based not on suspicion but on fact. 
and his officers it was arranged that a poll of growers be held. This was held early in  1970.  In the Forty-sixth Annual Report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year  1969-70  a breakdown of the voting in the referendum is shown. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard tables showing the breakdown in voting. 

<graphic href="069131197009162_74_0.jpg"></graphic>

The report sums up the voting in this way: 
A large proportion of growers (nearly 35 per cent) did not take the trouble to vote. 
Of those whose votes were admitted as valid, 1,578 voted in favour and 859 voted against the plan. 
The report continues: 
For the plan to be implemented required a substantial majority of those entitled to vote to be in favour. As this condition was not reached the plan was defeated. 
I have been asked by way of interjection how many people voted informally. The table to which  1  have referred shows that  9  votes were rejected as informal and  84  votes were rejected for other reasons. The dried fruit industry is very precarious, hs most people engaged in it know. They never know what a crop will yeild until it is in the packing sheds. Sometimes the markets are uneven and dried fruit growers never know what return they will receive for their fruit. It is highly essential that the industry have a stabilisation plan. To a certain extent it was because of apathy that a sufficient number of growers did not vote. As has been shown, the number who did vote were by a large majority in favour of the scheme. But the plan was not accepted because of apathy and because some members of the dried fruit community put the tale about and told growers at meetings that if they rejected this plan they would get a better one. I ask the Minister for Primary Industry to cooperate as well as he can with the Australian Dried Fruits Association with a view to giving growers another chance to approve a scheme by means of a poll of growers. I ask that this be done as soon as possible. Dried vine fruit growers must assure that their industry is stabilised. They cannot afford to be in their present position. I look forward to a new poll. If it comes about then I believe that sufficient growers this time will vote in favour of the scheme. 
I would probably not have come into this debate had it not been for a very smart reply by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  to an interjection I made. He said in his speech that we must stop scoring political points on the subject of social services. I would say that we want to stop scoring political points off anything that is not legitimate. When he said that we on this side of the House would not cross the floor and vote on the other side I said that Labor would do the same thing. Everybody knows that this is right. In reply to that he said: T did not know the honourable member was awake.' That is the remark that brought me to my feet because everybody knows that I have been in this place for 24i years and I have never been asleep in the chamber. I will not stand for any new member coming in here with his smark talk. 
I was not asleep when I was a new member either so the honourable member should be careful about coming in here and trying to insinuate that I was asleep by saying that he did not know I was awake. 
Apparently the honourable member is the kind of man who never learns his lesson. He is trying to add to his offence now. The point I want to make is that if he wants to act in this way  not only will he not get the appreciation of this side of the House but he will not get that of his own Party either because even they do not stoop to that sort of thing. It just seems a joke, but when this sort of thing appears in Hansard people reading it will say: 'The honourable member for Mallee must spend a lot of his time sleeping.' As for his second interjection that he does not know whether I am asleep or awake, I think his powers of comprehension are very poor indeed because I am awake to everything that is going on in this House and have been all the time I have been here, and I hope I will continue to be. I will not stand for a new member coming in here with his smart talk and trying- 
I preface a question to the Minister for Primary Industry by stating that I am concerned that as a result of insufficient growers of dried vine fruits voting at a poll to approve continuation of stabilisation of the Australian dried vine fruits industry, the industry has now ceased to have the protection it previously enjoyed. Will the Minister state the present position of the industry regarding stabilisation? Is he prepared again to meet representatives of the Australian Dried Fruits Association for discussions with a view to arranging a further poll on the subject? 
I too will be very brief in my remarks. We want to see the passage of this Bill today because it has to go to the Senate next week. The sooner the Bill is passed, the sooner the benefits will be available. So it is right that we should make only short speeches. It is appreciated that honourable members opposite have been keeping very closely to the time limits that they said they would observe. I am supposed to speak for 5 or 8 minutes. I will try to keep to that It will probably be one of the shortest speechesI have ever made. On one occasion my speech consisted merely of saying: 'I support the Bill because I believe it is in the best interests of Australia'. I then sat down. I do not intend to be that brief on this occasion. 
I appreciate the attention given by the Repatriation Department to the exservicemen that 1 represent. From the head of the Department in Victoria, the Deputy Commissioner, down through the different grades of people I have met, they have treated the men I have taken to see them with the greatest courtesy. This courtesy is appreciated by all honourable members. 
I do not have time to say very much and therefore I want to be very definite. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr 
Reynolds) spoke about the amount of the total and permanent incapacity pension. I have to move from one point to another very quickly in order to cover the case. He referred to what he called the lowest wage. He mentioned the sum of $38 for the TPI pensioner and $42 as the lowest wage. Debates of this nature were taking place when I first came into this House. By the way, the Minister for Repatriation at the time was the father of the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard).  He was a very fine gentleman and I was very friendly with him. I put a case to him suggesting that more money should be paid because the pension was not as much as the basic wage of those days.  Mr Barnard  then put me on the right track. At that time 1 was the honourable member for Wimmera. I represented that electorate for the first 34 years of my time in this House until the name of the electorate was changed to Mallee in an electoral redistribution.  Mr Barnard  said: 'The honourable member for Wimmera does not understand that that amount of money, the basic wage, is all that the man gets. It covers him - or is supposed to in theory - and perhaps his wife and 2 children. On the other hand the wife and children of a TPI pensioner also get pensions. Therefore the TPI pensioner is better off than the man on the lowest wage'. 
I saw straight away that I had not understood the position. I had only been a member for perhaps 6 months. I could see immediately the wisdom of what  Mr Barnard  said. I have mentioned this matter on different occasions in these debates but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the son of the man who put me right, never seems to grasp the point or to concede it when making speeches in this place. 
Moving on quickly, Jet me say that I think one of the important things is the has to be established. It is very good for a man to get a 20 per cent, 40 per cent or up to a 100 per cent pension. But if a man on a 100 per cent pension is not getting enough to compensate him for his disability then I, as his representative, will put up the case that he should get the intermediate pension. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  spoke about this matter today. Incidentally, he had a lot to do with the introduction of this pension. The intermediate pension was established for men who are not totally and permanently invalided - men who can do some work but whose incapacity is more than can be compensated by the 100 per cent rate. Therefore it is eligibility that is important. 
Recently I dealt with the case of a man I had served with. In presenting his case 1 said to the departmental officer: This is a typical example of why the intermediate pension was established.' That man received the intermediate rate. Later he could not work at all and was transferred to the TPI rate.I could speak about these things that have happened for much longer than the 5 or 8 minutes at my disposal. One honourable member said during this debate that ex-servicemen do not get much sympathy from the Government. They do not want sympathy. They want justice; they want a good pension. Sympathy does not get them anywhere. I wrote down what the honourable member said at the time. 
Many other things have been said in this debate and I do not know which to deal with. Generally speaking I say definitely that I want the Repatriation Department and the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  to watch closely over these men coming back from Vietnam. A lot of us know what jungle fighting is like and these men should get the best possible deal.I do not mean that they should get a better deal than the men who served in the two World Wars or other smaller conflicts. I do not believe that. But they should get the same. There is nothing too good for an exserviceman. Who decides eligiblity? Is it the Minister? No. He cannot do anything. He cannot say: 'Give this man a pension.' 
Simply because it would be right out of the bounds of justice and fair reasoning. He cannot do it. When one works the whole thing out, the person who decides who is going to get a pension is the doctor who examines the man. If he recommends a pension for a man he is almost sure to get it. Let us take someone who is not satisfied with the 80 per cent pension he receives. I am repeating myself, but I want to do so. If the man's condition is such that the pension does not meet the situation, a case should be made out to put him into the category of the intermediate pension. Then he could do some light work and still receive that pension. If he then finds he is still incapacitated the only thing left for him is the TPI pension. 
I have been asked whether I will vote with the Opposition for the amendment. Somebody said: 'If you come over it will not break the Government. It will not put the Government out of office.' My answer was: 'No. I know that.' I would not go over if I thought it would defeat the Government. If I went over knowing that it would not defeat the Government, and got some paltry publicity in doing so, I would not be acting in the best interests of common sense and I would not be true to myself on a principle. I was called to task recently for saying that Government supporters, believing that the Government does its best for Australia, including exservicemen, want to keep it in office. The Labor Party wants to get into office. We have a party system. How many Labor members come over and vote with the Government? I have seen two of them do it while I have been here. The other day 2 Labor members voted with the Government on the question of aircraft noise. They are the only two I know of. After all, people outside might say that the honourable member for Wimmera, or Calare, or Mallee should vote for these things with the Opposition. We know that this is only political talk. Not one member on the Opposition side would vote with the Government no matter how much he wanted a certain thing to happen. 
I hope the Bill will go through. I compliment the Minister for the work he has already done. He has not been in this portfolio for long so we cannot blame him for anything. Perhaps we will next year, if he does not get moving. I believe he is ardently working to give the ex-servicemen whom he represents as the Minister for Repatriation the best possible deal that this country can give them. Nothing is more justified than giving those men and women who served this country in its dire need the best deal that Australia can give them. They were willing and able to serve Australia in the great world wars we have seen. We owe them the privilege of being members of this democratic Parliament. But for them we would never have been able to continue in existance and in peaceful occupation of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Listening to this debate took my mind back to an occasion in the House some months ago when I informed the House of a pamphlet which read: Think Big for an Internationa] Airport at Mildura'. Having heard about aircraft noise and the other problems associated with airports in cities I realised that this was not just a possibility but a probability. It is probable that we will have big international airports a long way from capital cities. The pamphlet I have mentioned was brought out by  Mr George  Tilley who is the editor of the Sunraysia Daily'. The pamphlet contains a map showing that Mildura is situated on a straight line between Perth and Sydney. Of course, Mildura is near Adelaide. It is also on a straight line between Adelaide and Sydney. In addition Mildura is on the corner of 3 States - New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
It is ideally situated. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  who comes from the great city, asked whether anyone lives there. People who reside in Sydney think that that city is the start and finish of Australia. But that is not so. Mildura is one of the great provincial cities of Australia. It is growing tremendously. The people of Mildura think big. They want an airport at Mildura. 
Perhaps I could quote one or two passages from the pamphlet. The pamphlet states: 'Night flights must come'. Some honourable members tonight have said that we will have to have night flights and that we cannot have the curfew. If we want to have the great nation that we feel this country should be we have to strive for these things. The pamphlet went on to say: 
Australia'saviation controllersknowthat operation of aircraft on night schedules must come if Australia is to move passengers as they should be moved. 
Night movement is not appreciated over big cities . . 
Members of the Opposition tell us all the time that night flights are not appreciated. This is so especially in the case of people who live in close proximity to an airport. The pamphlet continues:   but it would cause little concern from an airport  8 or 9  miles out of Mildura. 
If an international airport were established at Mildura international flights could land there and smaller aircraft, which of course do not make anything like the noise made by larger aircraft, would carry passengers to the different capital cities. Mildura would be the very centre for people coming from overseas. Honourable members should read the pamphlet from which I have quoted.I can supply them with copies. I gave some honourable members copies of this pamphlet when I first brought this matter up in the House. As I said when I commenced my speech, after listening to this debate tonight I was seized with the idea that the construction of an international airport at Mildura is something which is more practical than honourable members realise and I think such a scheme should be supported. 
Other parts of Australia are seeking to have a national airport away from cities. As honourable members know, Mildura was selected by the Royal Australian Air Force as a training place during the war and many airmen trained there. Mildura is quite safe as an airport because there are no mountains in this area. It is a certainty that an aircraft will not run into a mountain around Mildura. Of course, Mildura already has an airport. This airport only needs to be extended. The Commonwealth Government and especially the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and the Department of Civil Aviation want to think big on this. They should think big about this proposition for we must look to the future. 
It has been said in this place today that when one starts to build an airport one does not start flying planes from it within 6 or 12 months. It takes years to do this. Tullamarine Airport has taken a long time. It will take years to build an airport. I would again say to Opposition and Government members to think big.I say that we  shouldgetmovingtoestablishanairportin  an ideal place. There is any amount of room for an airport at Mildura. There is a progressive population there. Some honourable members have asked: 'Where is it?' I am sorry, but this only shows their lack of knowledge of Australia. The establishment of an international airport at Mildura is something worth looking into. I believe that it is in the best interests of the community generally and of the future of this country for the Department of Civil 
Aviation, in conjunction with the Minister for Civil Aviation, to make a close study of this matter. I will provide them with the pamphlet and any further information they may require. If the powers in this country give it proper investigation they will see that such a scheme has so many advantages in its favour that they will have to give serious consideration to building such an airport. 
I had not intended to speak but, as noone else was rising, I thought I should take the opportunity on this occasion. We are discussing the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry, which I think is the chief department concerned, the Department of Customs and Excise, and the Department of Trade and Industry. I want to praise the Department of Customs and Excise for the fine work it has been doing in discovering drugs and such things which people attempt to bring illegally into this country. The staff of that Department is doing an excellent job. On the ships that they search they find all sorts of places where drugs are hidden. They must be complimented by honourable members. It is very seldom that they are complimented. Some people do not seem to worry much whether drugs are brought into this country or not. Many members of the Opposition as well as members of the Government have spoken against the drug trade and have said that it must be stopped. The young people of this country, and the older ones too, are in danger all the time from drug pedlars. Some of these drug pedlars are very pleasant people and they make an impression on certain young people with whom they come in contact. 
I read a story the other day about a young boy who had drawn a very ugly looking picture. He showed it to his father and said: "This is a picture of the devil'.  His  father said: 'Oh, no, that is not the devil'. ' So the boy went back to school, got all sorts of things together and made a very hideous sort of picture. He came to his father again and said: 'I have got it right this time. This is a picture of the devil'. The father said no and explained to him that the devil is not necessarily ugly. 
The devil may be a beautiful girl or a handsome young man. If the person, who was distributing drugs and other things that are illegal, was ugly people would not be attracted to him. But young people today do not recognise for what they are the plausible manner and the appearance of people who are peddling drugs. Therefore, it is a very serious matter. Let me say to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  that we believe the work being done under his guidance is for the benefit of all Australia. I commend his Department for its arduous work which is dedicated to stopping the entry of drugs into this country. 
I turn now to the Department of Trade and Industry. Recently in this House someone spoke about the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  as being the gloomy dean because he had gone overseas, had made investigations into the Common Market and had come back here to report on what he had found out. What did honourable members opposite expect him to do? He bad been on a mission overseas to investigate, amongst other things, matters regarding the possible entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. What should he have done? Should he have come back here and given a bright picture, quite the reverse to what he found? It seems that the truth was not popular. When the Minister for Trade and Industry came back to Australia he reported exactly what he bad seen. The Minister has had an almost lifelong experience in trade negotiations overseas. I think we must accept what he has said and do all we can to get other markets in preparation for the time when the United Kingdom may go into the European Common Market. 
Recently I suggested to the Minister for Trade and Industry something similar to but not exactly the same as I have suggested over the years. I suggested that Australia should appoint for a start at least three accredited and efficient salesmen of high integrity to go overseas and move from trade post to trade post trying to co-ordinate the work of trade commissioners in finding markets and selling Austraiian goods. Such men have proved to be very valuable in private enterprise. If stock agents, for instance, have stock for sale in New South Wales or Victoria they send their men round to the different branches to find out what they have for sale and also to find buyers. They do not make the actual sales. They coordinate the marketing. Without them business would not be so good. 
As I have said before, trade commissioners are not necessarily good salesmen. Most of them are appointed because they have a university degree. I have personal knowledge of two young men who, because of their university degrees, were recently appointed to a certain position that had to do with primary industry. The post to which they were appointed had been run for many years by a man who did not have a degree, but he had to teach these young men all about what their job really meant. 1 believe that Australia should appoint salesmen. The Minister was quite right in saying that the Government collects information from its trade posts around the world and makes it available to manufacturers in Australia. But what about the small manufacturer? He cannot take full advantage of it. Therefore these men continually travelling and working in conjunction with Australian trade representatives all over the world would pay their way. 1 think that this is something that should be looked into. 
It is said that primary industry is in a bacl position financially and that its prospects are not good. I listened to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  and I had to agree with him to a certain extent. I believe that if wheat quotas had not been introduced and if there had not been very low prices for wool, the primary producer would still have been heading for a bad time because of rising costs. As the honourable member for Eden-Monaro said - and I agree with him - costs are affecting the profit of primary industry. 1 have often said in this place that the primary industry that is not stabilised is out of step with reality. After all, this country is divided. When Abraham Lincoln was trying to free the slaves in America he said: 
This country cannot long remain half slave and half free. 1 do not expect the Union to be dissolved but I do expect that it shall cease to be divided. 
It was resolved. More than three-quarters of the people live in metropolitan areas, where there is great prosperity. We hear arguments here all the time that make me very tired. We hear about moratoriums and other Jiangs that are happening, flow could young nien appear &amp; &amp; streets  55  Fridays and other days, how could they leave their jobs and their universities to take place in a march if there were not great prosperity in the metropolitan areas? I have not heard of yoting men marching in places that I represent, such as Mildura. I have not heard of them having marched in any country town. 
The money is in the metropolitan areas. It has been said that for every ten men who can stand adversity only one can stand success. Financial success that is to be found in the cities is going to the heads of a lot of people and they have to find something to do. Therefore they participate in a Moratorium march or something else. 1 am not saying that these activities are good, bad or indifferent at this stage, but there only has to be a call for a march and people come from everywhere. They are nearly all young people who should be studying to fit themselves to represent this country in the way we expect them to when the Government pays so much for their education. 
Tariffs do a great job in protecting our secondary industries against low standard of living countries which, if they could market their manufactured goods in Australia, would put most of our secondary industries out of business. Primary industry has ceased to be an employer of labour. With very big machines two or three men can do what it took 22 or 23 men to do in the days of the horse and the slower machines. Employment is not to be found in the country areas. If Australia wants to progress it must have population for many things, including defence. Secondary industry plays its part in this regard. If we were to lift tariffs too much, industry would collapse. Exorbitant tariffs do 2 things. First of all, they protect the inefficient manufacturer. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission grants wage rises according to what industry can pay, and if an industry can pay handsomely because of the tariffs it enjoys workers receive high wages and are encouraged to work as slow as the slowest worker. If these working conditions are not adhered to a strike is called quick and lively. 
I have suggested in this place on a lot of occasions that primary industry should receive price support for its exports on  a  basis that  is at  least  as  financially favourable  as  that which the tariffs give to secondary industry. This would in time even up the distribution of population and would even up the economy. There is an everwidening gap between the economies of secondary industry and primary industry. If the primary producer could buy in Australia everything he needed for his property and could sell in Australia all that he produced he would not want any assistance at all; but he does not do that. A market is  a  place for buying and selling; but if the primary producer can only buy on the home market and has to sell most of his goods overseas, it is only half  a  market. The primary producer has to sell on markets in low standard of living countries against which our secondary industries are protected by tariff. We can give the primary producer as much temporary help as we like, but he still has to face rising costs. We must try to include the primary producer in the buoyant economy that is apparent in our cities. 
While I have been speaking members of the Australian Labor Party have been trying to interject, but I remind honourable members of Labor's constant great cry about one vote one value. I have coined the statement that we need decentralisation of political representation. It is of no good talking about any other kind of representation, because if a big factory is to be built the voting power in the city attracts support for it like a magnet. Therefore we must have decentralisation of political representation. As soon as I speak about this the Labor Party puts forward the principle of one vote one value. This is right on the spot as far as primary industry is concerned for the simple reason that if we do have such a principle the primary producer cannot continue to exist. If the primary producer has the voting power in the country he will be able to bring about conditions that are favourable to primary producers and primary industry generally. Members of the Labor Party talk about gerrymanders and put forward the principle of one vote one value. Where is there a principle of one vote one value? It is a fallacy. Although Tasmania has a population of fewer than 400,000 people and New South Wales has a population of more than 4i million, Tasmania has the same number of senators as 
New South Wales.- How do honourable members opposite work that out? I cannot work out their arguments about one vote one value. 
I would 1 ike to say that primary industry and primary producers are not the same thing. We have to help primary producers in bad times by giving them some financial assistance. But primary industry covers a wider scope.' I believe that if primary industry is prosperous the efficient primary producer should be prosperous. Therefore, I say that this Government and this nation must give a lot of thought to providing better conditions for primary industry to participate in [the highly buoyant financial state of our economy at present. There is plenty of money in this country but it is in the wrong places. Honourable members opposite oppose its spread all over the country. Primary industry has played its part in building this nation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Ever since 1 have been in this Parliament it has been pretty well the rule that  1  have taken part in the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Interior. I probably say the same things every time I speak. On the other hand, I have found that one has to keep on doing so if one is advocating a certain action. One has to keep advocating it until people take some notice. I listened very carefully to the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  Of course, he is a Queenslander. Last year the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  I think, put up the same case regarding the hours of polling for Federal elections. The present hours are 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The Queenslanders are always advocating that we should take 2 hours off the end of the term and make it 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Last year it was the honourable member for Griffith and the year before it was another Queenslander althoughI forget who it was. The point is that it may be all right for Queenslanders and it may be all right for city dwellers, but I and other members of the Australian Country Party on numerous occasions have put forward the view that in the southern States the primary producers would be at a disadvantage. 
Over theyears the Federal elections have taken place chiefly at harvest time, which is November and December. At that time of year it is important for primary producers to be out in the paddocks to a certain hour. Some honourable members opposite are laughing, but they must remember that if farmers delay stripping an oat crop for an hour or two and a big wind springs up, most ot the oats will fall to the ground. Therefore we continue to advocate that there be no change in the polling times; that they remain 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. A Queensland member of the Country Party disagrees with me. But one State cannot control the Commonwealth. As these times suit the southern States and the primary producers we say very definitely that they should continue. 
Something has been said about preferential voting. The Labor Party is said to be in favour of the principle of first past the post. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that if one agrees with that principle one must agree with the principle of one vote one value - that plaintive note we hear so often from the Opposition benches. Let me say first of all in regard to the preferential system that if it works out correctly - and this is in theory - when 2 candidates are left after the preferences have been distributed the position should be the same as if they were the only candidates standing. This does not work out in practice as a rule for the simple reason that some candidates pick out an opponent whom they think is the danger and they put him at the bottom of their preferences. But a lot of people forget that preferences are not counted until the candidate ceases to have a chance to win the election. So it does not make much difference as far as the candidate is concerned where he puts his preferences. The only thing that perhaps can be arranged is an exchange of preferences. Maybe this exchange will be very valuable; otherwise, it does not mean much. 
The other matter I want to speak about is this plaintive call of one vote one value. What a ridiculous thing this is. I have spoken on it often. There is much laughter from an honourable member who represents a city electorate. Let us look at the Senate. The Senate is a place where voting occurs pretty often. We must realise that in Tasmania there are fewer than 400,000 people and that in New South Wales there are more than 4.5 million, and each State has 10 senators. Is this one vote one value? Let honourable members opposite call out "one vote one value' now if they feel like it. It is the most ridiculous thing I have heard since I have been in this place. 
An Opposition member - Abolish the Senate. 
The last time I spoke on this subject 1 got the same interjection. The Labor Party did not make any move to abolish the Senate when it was in office. It seems the Labor Party likes it it keeps it there. As was said by a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, it is no good wasting time talking about abolishing the Senate. You have to get a vote of the Senate before you can hold a referendum. Do honourable members think the Senate would commit suicide? Of course it would not. The Senate is there to stay and there is not the slightest doubt of it. If there was a referendum the people would vote to leave the Senate where it is because a cry would go up that it is the greatest safeguard of Australia. We know that the Senate votes on party lines although it was considered by those who drafted the Constitution that it should represent the States. But senators vote on party lines; they talk on party lines; they live on party lines. So where is the one vote one value principle now? 
I am showing that the principle of one vote one value is false. Will some member of the Opposition who says that it is not explain later, if he has time, how 10 senators for 4.5 million people and 10 senators for 400,000 people is in keeping with the principle of one vote one value? If he can do that I am quite happy to hear him but only a miracle could make somebody do it and even with a miracle it would not be correct. The last redistribution of electoral boundaries changed things in favour of the cities. I represent an electorate of nearly 20,000 square miles. 
About 47,000 people. What has happened in the metropolitan electorates? Cunningham, whose old area was 129 square miles, has been reduced to 73 square miles. Shortland, which had an area of 1 18 square miles, is 46 square miles. Corio had an old area of 847 square miles; its new area is 288 square miles. Deakin was 1,065 square miles; the new area is a mere 17 square miles. Lalor had an old area of 1,749 square miles; its new area is 322 square miles. Oxley had an old area of 3,890 square miles; its new area is 209 square miles. What is happening all the time is that people are being attracted to the city because the city has the voting power. Therefore it has the amenities. 1 have given enough figures to show the true merit of the principle of one vote one value. Everyone knows that the cities have the amenities. There are continually more members of Parliament coming from the cities. People are being attracted to the cities by their amenities. When a redistribution occurs it is found that there are more people living in the city and as a result we get more members in this House representing city electorates. I said that I represented about 20.000 square miles. In the last redistribution 2 more subdivisions were added to my electorate. The principle of one vote one value is followed fairly closely in the House of Representatives. The cities are growing all the time. We hear members of the Opposition referring to the drift to the cities. This is wrong. I claim to have coined the slogan 'Decentralise political representation'. 
Yes, I can clarify it by saying that when I tell you what the slogan is you will laugh at it. The Opposition dues not want to decentralise political representation. It wants to centralise it. By this centralisation of political representation the population of this country would be centralised in 1 or 2 cities. What have I done? I have advocated this for years. I have fought for it. What has the Opposition done? It has been quite in agreement with what is going on. Surely to goodness people know that if we could decentralise political representation this country would be better for it. As far as cities are concerned, if there was a war 1 atomic bomb could blow Sydney or Melbourne to pieces. 1 believe we should decentralise the people into places like the great Murray Valley. We have a league there called the Murray Valley Development League. Its aim is to have 1 million people in the Murray Valley. People from very small electorates of 8, 9 or 10 square miles start to laugh about these things. An honourable member said the other night that it is harder to represent a small area. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  represents an electorate of 9 square miles. It has been suggested that it is harder to represent that than a large electorate. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  who was calling out represents a large electorate. With Kalgoorlie, Coolgardie and Geraldton given attention there i-&gt; nothing much for him to worry about. But some of us have electorates with people evenly distributed, living in small areas. In a small electorate of 9. 10 or 15 square miles all you have to do is put an advertisement in the paper that you will tie at a certain place at a certain time- 
In dealing with the estimates for the Department of National Development I want to concentrate on the delay that has occurred in the building of the Dartmouth Dam. My constituents are very conscious of the fact that they require more water. Fortunately there has been reasonably good rain lately and the Murray River, of course, is running a banker. But it could have been very dry and it could be very dry for the next 3 or  4  years. Therefore, it is very necessary that the Dartmouth Dam be built as soon as possible. What is the history of the holdup? The history is that when the Bill came into this House there were all sorts of amendments and speeches against the Dartmouth Dam proposal being implemented immediately and the South Australians concentrated on the case for the Chowilla Dam. The shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  moved this amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the States for the establishment of a national water conservation and construction authority, embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority, to carry out a systematic and efficient development of soundly based water storages in the major river basins including the Murray and Darling systems.' 
This motion would hold up the building of any dam, for the simple reason that if we had all these systematic investigations that are envisaged in the amendment not only months but years would pass by. Furthermore, after a final decision was made the governments concerned would have to agree to it. Therefore we are left without any building of a dam at all. What happened after that was that the present South Aus tralian Premier saw immediately that there was a chance for his party to get back into Government. So in the South Australian Parliament a motion was moved regarding the dam. As the propaganda had been spread from here, and existed in South Australia, that if this dam were built the Chowilla Dam would never be built, the South Australian people believed this and supported the Government which was saying that they would lose Chowilla. The present Premier of South Australia gained his present position as a result. 
National development is largely water conservation, because following on water conservation all sorts of development can be undertaken nationally. 1 know that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  was very concerned thai the States had not all agreed to the building of this dam at the stage he had recommended for its building, as  Chairman  of the River Murray Commission. In that capacity he is a very important figure in this House and in Australia. What is happening at the present time? A motion for these investigations to be made was moved b.y the honourable member for Dawson and supported quite naturally by all the South Australians who thought they might be losing Chowilla. J remember at that time f said to the South Australians: 'Why throw the towel in so easily? You know if you get Dartmouth built now, if Chowilla can be justified the very weight of the justification will cause it to be built'. But no, they would not have that at all. I think they viewed the position of the then South Australian Opposition and thought the case they were putting up would help put it back into office. Of course that proved to be right. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  whose electorate is, for a certain distance, across the river from the electorate of Mallee, supported the amendment. The South Australians supported it. Therefore the whole thing is held up. There is no chance of getting water at an early date from the Dartmouth Dam. I was going to put a question to the Minister and ask: ls it the normal course for the River Murray Commission that when it recommends the building of a storage it also recommends other storages to be built almost immediately, or does the Commission recommend a storage when it feels it is necessary to do so and believes that it would give more water to this nation, and perhaps does not recommend others at that stage? 
The whole story of the River Murray is that certain locks and weirs are built when opportunity offers and finance permits and when they are necessary. I ask: Was the River Murray Commission acting in other than the normal way in recommending the building of the Dartmouth Dam without recommending Chowilla and a lot of other storages that apparently are envisaged in the amendment? Over the years the River Murray Commission has recommended, after a great deal of investigation, water storages that it has considered to be in the best interests of those parts of Australia requiring the water that a storage would supply. South Australia knows quite well that Dartmouth would give it much more water than would Chowilla. This was pointed out definitely by the experts. 
I was chided for having supported Chowilla at an earlier stage. It is quite right that I supported Chowilla because the experts at that time thought Chowilla was the place to build a dam. But after further investigation the experts said that it was transparently clear that the building of Dartmouth was required and desired more than the building of Chowilla. South Australians would get extra water from Dartmouth. It would be better water, too. It was stated very definitely that the water would be clearer and purer. Therefore I cannot understand why some honourable members support in this place the Chowilla project before Dartmouth. A fairly prominent new member of this place is reported in a newspaper dated 4th September 1970 as having stated:  l have continued to stress the commonsense position - Dartmouth is urgent to avoid disaster. 
The honourable member's star is falling. I do not want to name the honourable member who made this statement because it is not favourable to him. This same member of the Australian Labor Party, when we were debating the River Murray Waters Bill, was not so adamant that it was urgent that Dartmouth should be built. If he had been he would never have supported an amendment put at that time by the shadow 
Minister for Primary Industry. The shadow Cabinet Minister for Primary Industry perhaps is interested in water conservation but he is not interested personally locally in the areas to be supplied by Dartmouth. His electorate is in Queensland. In the Riverina and in the Mallee electorate the people are intensely interested in water conservation. Therefore I feel that the Opposition should do something at the first opportunity it gets. Honourable members opposite should get up now and advocate that the building of the Dartmouth Dam is absolutely necessary if those in South Australia and in the electorate I represent are to have more water. But of course things have changed in the meantime. The same honourable member is reported as having stated: 
The deadlock was caused by the decision to approve Dartmouth alone without a commitment to further storages on the Murray. 
That should not have been a deadlock. Why not build Dartmouth alone? Then if we want to get Chowilla later on, as I said, we can have it also. Owing to certain circumstances related to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association I have been asked to finish speaking at 11.44 a.m. It is so near to that time that it does not matter. So let me make a final plea, not to the Minister because the Minister is active and wants to build Dartmouth, but to the representatives of South Australia to get together and show that they made a mistake when they opposed the Dartmouth project and that the amendment that has been moved is really holding up the building of Dartmouth, and let the Minister get on with the job. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. Has the Minister convened a meeting of representatives of the States of Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia and the Commonwealth at which he will be  chairman,  to discuss the urgent need to build the proposed Dartmouth Dam? If so, will he indicate whether there is now a chance of an early start in building this important water storage despite the demand of the Australian Labor Party that Dartmouth be not built without a Government commitment to build other storages? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Press reports state that organisers of the primary producers rally at Canberra yesterday claim that the poor attendance was due to Country Party influence. As the organisers, including one Labor member of this House, have said previously that the Country Party has ceased to be a power in the community, and as these opinions are contradictory, can the Minister clarify the position? 
I was very interested to hear the 2 Labor men speak on this subject tonight. Of course I agree with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that if a tariff is imposed on tractors coming into this country the price will go up. But the bounty does not have that effect. It has the effect of the tractor being kept at the same price or perhaps being reduced in price. The debate then went on from the subject of tractors to the effect of the rural crisis on the cities. Someone said a long time ago that if the cities were burnt down they would be rebuilt as if by magic. But metaphorically speaking, if the farms are burnt down the grass would grow on the streets of every city in this Commonwealth. This seems to be in a way what is being said by the 2 honourable members and also seems to be the truth. But they have said nothing about what the Government has done to try to overcome the problem. 
J was very surprised that the honourable member for Dawson changed his mind so suddenly on certain things that have been happening. He knows quite well that in the House some time ago he criticised the Government for making advance payments on wheat that had not been sold. The fact is that if the Government had not made advance payments amounting, as he said in his speech, to between $650m and $700m, for wheat, much of which was unsold, the crisis would have been much more severe. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  was going around the Riverina just prior to our big debate at Barham and saying that the Government should pay $1.10 a bushel for the over quota wheat. The honourable member for Dawson was saying that the Government had been warned - and he had warned the Government - about what could happen as a result of its being a guarantor for large proportions of wheat that cannot be sold at present. I think that perhaps the honourable member for Dawson, seeing that this is wrong and that it was very necessary for the Government to make these advances on wheat to keep the wheat industry in operation - the Government has put many millions of dollars into doing this - should not have criticised the government for it. 
lt has not been paid back. 
The Government has not been paid back. The point about this is that the amount of money has been paid to wheat growers. The Government has advanced it to the Wheat Board which has paid it in advances. Much of the wheat has not been sold. The advance has been made on wheat that has not been sold but the growers have the advance payment. This advance has been made to growers on wheat that has not been sold and that, as the honourable member for Dawson said truthfully, cannot be sold - he used this hackneyed phrase - at this point of time. The point about the whole thing is that had these advances not been made, what would the position have been in the wheat industry? The wheat growers would have been 50 per cent worse off than they are today. The Government has been criticised by the Labor Party for making these advances that have been a Godsend to wheat growers. I do not find the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Riverina saying that the Government has been doing a splendid job by letting wheat growers know 6 months earlier- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I remind the honourable member that this Bill has the limited purpose of providing temporary assistance to local manufacturers currently producing bountiable tractors additional to the normal assistance provided under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act. 
I have always been most careful not to go against the rulings of the Chair but could I remind you respectfully,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I am only answering what 2 members of the Labor Party said, and they were right off the subject. Let me put it this way if 1 have to say 'tractor' now and again, that as far as tractors are concerned I suppose the wheat industry is responsible for the sale of more tractors in Australia than any other industry. So when the Government said that the advance would be $1.10 a bushel on all quota wheat grown in the coming harvest, would that not have helped the tractor people? Knowing that they would get a first advance of $1.10 a bushel wheat growers would be more inclined to buy tractors. This is the logical conclusion for anyone who has looked into the problem to reach. This advance of $1. JO a bushel was announced last February or March. This has never happened before; it has always been announced about November. I am very happy to find 2 Labor men speaking so favourably of the primary industries. I am delighted about it. I deplore the attitude of the city versus the country. It is one of the reasons why I have been an advocate for so many years of greater political representation for country areas. I could get away from the subject we are discussing and I do not want to do that, but what has been said by the 2 members of the Opposition tonight has to be examined in order to find what they really mean. Are they trying to get primary producers on side now, and at the same time objecting to the advances? 
The honourable member for Dawson said on 10th March 1970: 
It was obvious to everybody, to the industry and to the Government, that last year there would be large sums of money unrepaid in respect of the 1968-69 harvest. The Government then made another advance of $440m. Looking at it in perspective now, in March 1970, we see a total of $440m as the first, advance for last year's crop and approximately $250m in unsold wheat or the equivalent still on hand. This amounts to a loan of from $650m to S700m having been made. 
First of ali I take exception to the last few words of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The words were: 'It is an untruth and he knows it'. I cannot talk to the new members in the House but I can talk to the older ones who have been here for years. If the new members talk to the older members they will find I have never been accused of not telling the truth in all my years here. Before I refer to what has been said - I can prove that what 1 have been saying is true - I want to deal with what has been said about the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The honourable member for Dawson could not help but say what he did. Perhaps he tried to control his remarks. After all, the first and best victory he could have is the victory of self control. He tried to control himself, but he had to say - he knew that I had explained this before - that I called the Minister for Primary Industry an office boy. 
The circumstances of what happened need to be explained. I spoke at a big meeting of wheat growers at Bendigo. I said that they should go to Canberra and arrange to meet the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the Minister for Primary Industry in a panel. Someone said that this would be impossible but I had done it already for the dried fruits industry. I said: 'What you are doing is seeing one Minister, say the Minister for Primary Industry, and then you may see the Prime Minister or the Treasurer. You will be seeing different Ministers but you will be putting your case chiefly to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will be going backwards and forwards to Cabinet and you will have him running about like a messenger boy. I said like a messenger boy'. I did not say office boy'. That is completely wrong. I hope that the honourable member for Dawson did not know the truth because I would like to think that he tells the truth. I had been going around the country and 1 was just as ashamed of the statement I am about to quote as the honourable member should be. The only place I quoted it was in the debate I had with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  at Barham. I had already quoted it in the House some time prior to that. Hansard will verify that. Let me read one or two things that were said by the honourable member for Dawson in a speech made on 1 0th March. He said: 
The Minister gave an estimate with respect to the 1968-69 wheat harvest of deliveries of 435 million bushels which involved the Reserve Bank covering the first advance and expenses of $509m. That estimate was sadly wrong. As we know, the actual deliveries were in excess of 500 million bushels, and the loan from the Reserve Bank to the growers had to he increased. Provision was made for a loan of up lo $634rn, which is very big money. 
It was obvious to everybody, to the industry and to the Government, that last year there would be large sums of money  unrepaid  in respect of the 1968-69 harvest. The Government then made another advance of $440m. Looking at it in perspective now, in March 1970, we see a total of $440m as the first advance for last year's crop and approximately $250m in unsold wheat or the equivalent still on hand. This amounts to a loan of from $650m to $700m having been made. The disturbing thing of which Parliament must take note is the very serious economic problem of the consequence of making large advances to anyone when the money has been spent and the product for which it has been advanced hasnot been sold. This is the very serious problem with which we are faced now and with which we will be faced this time next year. In anybody's logic it is wrong economically to provide large loans or finance for anything that is difficult. The money has been spent but the wheat which it represents has not been sold. 
I will go further. The honourable member for Dawson later stated: 
The Opposition gives warning that if this state of affairs arises next year very serious consideration must be given to it. The Government has now been warned about what can happen by being a guarantor for large proportions of wheat that cannot be sold at this point of time. 
The point that I make is that the honourable member for Dawson is condemning the advance of money on wheat that has not been sold. 
Of course he is.I will read the passage again. It reads: 
The Government has now been warned about what can happen by being a guarantor for large proportions of wheat that cannot be sold at this point of time. 
During his speech just now the honourable member for Dawson said: 'I will quote what the Minister for Primary Industry said'. But honourable members will notice that he did not quote it at all. I challenge him to quote it in the words that appear in this document. 
The honourable member said he would quote it but he did not. 
The honourable member did not quote it on the lines that I have here. Let me go further on this matter. The honourable member for Dawson in making his speech got himself into a very serious position. There is no doubt about that. Honourable members opposite may laugh if they wish, but what would have been the position of the wheat industry if the advances had not been made? The advances for this coming year were announced 6 months before it was to be made. It was announced in about March. Previously we have always found out about it in November. Supposing the Government said: 'We have been warned by the the honourable member for Dawson of the consequences of making these advances. We must take notice of this warning because he is the shadow Minister for Primary Industry. We must take notice of what he says. Therefore we will not make the advance on this coming harvest of $1.10 a bushel because there is too much money out at the present time and we have been warned by the shadow Minister for Primary Industry.' This would be a very dangerous situation. 
I and this fine body of men behind me in the Country Party believe that these advances are justified. We believe that the advances have to be made this year - as they are being made - and we believe that they will have to be made next year and the year after that. If a time comes when quotas disappear and we return to normal and we find that an amount of $300m or $400m is owing by the wheat growers for these advances on wheat that was not sold, then I believe that whatever government is in office should wipe the slate clean. ] say this because we know - and it has been said by members of the Labor Party in this place - that primary industry is the very basis of the prosperity and progress of this nation. Primary industry is the main factor in our national life. The clipping of the golden fleece, the harvesting of the golden grain and the cultivation of countless other products of the soil are so important to this country that we will not take any notice of the warning that I have quoted and which appears in Hansard and which was issued by the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 1.29 a.m. (Thursday) 
I will not be very long. I wish to say one or two things. The first thing that 1 should say is that I. have stated - and this has been printed in the newspapers in the electorate that I represent - that I think that the highlight of the Budget is the section relating to the Postmaster-General's Department in which the assurance was given that 15 miles of telephone line in a direct line with the nearest telephone exchange would be built free of charge for rural subscribers. Since I came into this Parliament many years ago the farming community and rural residents generally have been saying that it is costing far too much for them to get telephone communications. As compared with the cities this was very apparent, but it was a difficult position. In the cities there are so many people close together that probably telephone connections could be made much cheaper, whereas for the long stretches in the country the cost was very high. A cost of up to $2,000 or $3,000 was' generally mentioned and people had paid that much to get the telephone onto their farms. Without the telephone they could not very well leave their families on the farms. This became a very acute problem. 
The Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  some time ago decided to provide a further mileage of telephone line for farmers but it was not quite enough. Tn this Budget he announced that telephone line would be erected at the expense of the Postmaster-General's Department for a distance of 15 miles in a straight line from the appropriate exchange. Farmers throughout the country have been delighted with this. As a member of the Australian Country Party I want to say that all our members in all States wish to thank the Postmaster-General for the manner in which he has handled their deputations and the result which has come about. This has pleased so many people who are worthy of the best deal we can give them. These people live way out in the country and play their part in the pioneering of districts. This service should bring us a step nearer to decentralisation. We cannot expect people to live in isolated places without a telephone. The man goes away to the markets and the wife and children are left alone on the farm. With a telephone they feel some security. In addition, the amount of money spent by farmers on the additional telephone line since 1st January 1969 will be refunded by the Department. This is one of the outstanding things that has happened since I came into this House. 
I want to pay a tribute to the officers of the Postmaster-General's Department. I know when one starts to mention names that it is very awkward and one is bound to forget someone. The Mallee electorate is covered by 3 districts. They are the offices of the Postmaster-General's Department at Ararat, Bendigo and Mildura. I do not do much business or need to have much connection with the office at Ararat but on one or two occasions I have arranged meetings and the officers there have come along and spoken to subscribers. They have been most helpful and courteous. I want to mention the other  2  offices because I know their officers better than I know those at Ararat. I will refer to Mildura first. It covers a vast amont of the Mallee electorate. The district telephone manager is  Mr Gilshenan.  He is a most progressive citizen. Not only is he the manager of the district telephone office but he is a colonel or major in the local branch of the Citizen Military Forces and a man with great public endeavour who wishes to do what he can.  Mr Thornton  is the next man to him and both these gentlemen have come along readily when I have called meetings of subscribers. We have had no trouble at all. They have met the constituents and perhaps they have not always been able to do what the constituents want. But now with the extra  15  miles of line being provided they will be able to satisfy more people. Nevertheless the people were satisfied that under the policy at that stage these officers did what they could. 
Bendigo is the other telephone office that covers part of the Mallee electorate. I pay a tribute to  Mr Madden,  the District Telephone Manager, and  Mr McGregor,  who is, I think, second in charge. I could not ask for any better service than they have given. It is the same with Mildura. I am not leaving out Ararat because the officers there have given great service too. I am not sure whether there has been some change in the district telephone manager there recently. I do not do as much business in that area. As far as the postal business is concerned we also have a district postal manager at Mildura,  Mr Harry  Allen. No-one could expect to get a better man anywhere to give service. He gives great service. If I ring and ask him to come to a meeting because the people are perhaps dissatisfied, he will come at the first opportunity. He handles the meeting in a workmanlike manner and it is appreciated not only by me as the representative of thousands of people but by the people with whom he comes in contact. It may seem to some that I should not say these things in the Commonwealth Parliament but I believe in giving honour where honour is due and the work that has been done is remarkable. 1 wish to refer to Wyperfield Park in the Rainbow-Hopetoun district where there is a lot of work done on wildlife conservation. There is an increasing number of tourists visiting this park. All sorts of native bird life and animals arc being preserved there. People go there with children in caravans and for picnics and outings. They may stay there over a period so that they can go through the park and see what is happening and what is being done to preserve animal life. It may seem that this has not much to do with the Postmaster-General's Department but it has a great deal to do with it. I am advocating - I have been asked to do so by the residents in the district - that the Postmaster-General's Department install a telephone at an appropriate place in this park so that when people go there they can go to the telephone, for example, in the case of an accident and ring a doctor at Hopetoun &gt; or  Rainbow. A telephone gives a feeling of security which without it the people do not have at all. 
Other honourable members wish to speak so I will say finally that we appreciate the way the Postmaster-General has handled things generally. I know there is some feeling about, the rise in the cost postage of letters and of bulk postage for newspapers and periodicals. Throughout the country people are talking about the marvellous . profits made by the Postmaster-General's Department. But the mere fact that the Department will provide 15 miles of telephone line for rural residents will absorb much more than all the profits that are made in a year. It will cost a tremendous amount of money. In the electorate which I represent there have been renovations to post offices in modern times at Robinvale, Mildura, Kerang, Swan Hill and many other places. New telephone boxes have been installed and the general expense of this type of work is tremendous. I know the Government makes a very big grant to the Department each year but we cannot judge the solvency of the Postmaster-General's Department by the amount of money that is in the trading account. I speak with appreciation of the Department and the man who is at its head. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He may recall that on his first day as Prime Minister in this House I drew his attention to the ever-widening gap in our economy between primary industry and secondary industry. He may remember that 1 suggested that certain tariffs be reduced or that price support to the Australian price level be given to Australian primary products exported. Has he given any further consideration to these important suggestions? 
We have had 3 speakers so far on this subject, 2 from the Opposition side and 1 from the Government side. They have all been very high in their praise for the measure before the House. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has just said, and I wrote down what he said: 'We welcome the measure'. Therefore, as I also support the measure, it is not necessary for me to try to make a long speech. The honourable member for Riverina said that the dairying industry is probably the most maligned primary industry in Australia. I cannot agree with the honourable member because the dairy industry is appreciated. This is especially so in Victoria where the efficiency of the industry is well known. If we want to make some sort of comparison we only have to look at the amount of money that goes to Victoria by way of bounty on butterfat. Victoria gets a tremendous share, which is out of proportion to the number of dairymen in that State. Therefore, the industry in Victoria is very efficient. 
Dairy activities are carried out in the Mallee electorate along the Murray River flats at Swan Hill and at Mildura and other places. Perhaps portions of the industry, in Mallee does not deal with the kind of product that is mentioned in the 
Bill before the House birt nevertheless anything that affects 1 dairy product has an effect on every other dairy product. In the electoral redistribution which preceded the last election 2 sub-divisions were added to the Mallee electorate. One of the subdivisions is Cohuna which is a highly intensified dairy area. Within the sub-division of Cohuna is the district of Leitchville around which dairying is conducted almost exclusively. Therefore, I appreciate anything that can be done to help the dairy industry in Australia. The honourable member for Riverina also said that he hoped the Bill before the House was not just a gesture. I do not think it is. I think the. proposals contained in the Bill will be very favourable to the industry and I hope that they will continue. Long term planning in different classes of primary industry is difficult for quite a number of reasons. One reason, of course, is the problem of seasons which, especially in a country like Australia, dictate the amount of production. Also, the varying demand for our goods overseas makes long term planning very difficult. Long term hopeful planning may be all right but long term definite planning is a different matter. I believe that this Bill is in the best interests of primary industry and. ' of course, specifically for the dairy industry, lt has my full support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
1 notice that the members of the Opposition who have spoken on this Bill have been careful to compare the record of the Government with its previous achievements and not with the record of the last Labor Government. This was very wise of them because the record of the last Labor Government in housing compared with the record of this Government is very unfavourable indeed to Labor. A lot of honourable members who have been speaking were, of course, not in this House when the Labor Government was in office and therefore they have not had much experience of what Labor has done with housing. 
It was refreshing to hear the praise for the United States of America by one member of the Opposition, but the statement made by that honourable member has never been confirmed by any member of this Parliament who has travelled overseas, nor by the tourists who always maintain that Australia gives opportunities in housing that far outstrip other countries. This applies not only to housing but also to many other things about which I will not go into fine detail. It is a well known fact that the proportion of people in Australia who own their own houses is probably higher than that in any other country in the world. Of course, statements such as that are in fact very hard to rebut. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned aged persons in connection with housing. No government has done more to provide our senior citizens with accommodation than this Government has. The Labor Government never gave a thought to legislation for homes for the aged. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  is now saying that certain people are not applying for accommodation in homes for the aged. Of course, honourable members opposite will not contradict me when 1 say that they did not apply at all for accommodation in homes for the aged when Labor was in office because there was no legislation to provide such homes. Labor did not have the imagination, the thought or, perhaps I could say, the compassion to bring forward such legislation as was brought forward in this House by the present Government some few years ago. This is tremendously important. I took a few notes of what the honourable member for Chifley said in regard to housing generally as far as Labor was concerned. He did not go into detail to tell us just what Labor did and what was the proportion of houses to population at that time. One has to measure it that way because the population of Australia today is ever so much greater than it was at that stage. 
All of these things that we have heard from honourable members opposite about housing and other things became meaningless when we listened to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who opened this debate for the Opposition. I do not mind the honourable member for Reid making a speech and advocating that there be lower interest rates and all manner of things for housing. This is his right; he can do that. But as a member of the Australian Country Party and one who represents a vast primary producing area I do object to his comparing what the Government is doing for primary industry with what is being done for housing and then to make the statement - which 1 wrote down so I would not misquote him - that home builders really require assistance. After he had quoted certain amounts that had been allocated to primary industry to give it some assistance to overcome the problems which it faces as a result of drought and the loss of overseas markets he said: 'The home builders really require assistance.' I would challenge anybody in this House to debate the proposition that there is no section of the community at the present time that is so urgently in need of financial assistance as the primary producing sector. Surely the honourable member for Reid should know this. 
After all, there is no comparison between the primary producing sector and the housing sector. Surely he should know this and not try to disparage, one might say, the great effort that the Government is making to try to bring primary industry to some sort of a level with secondary industry. Why, only yesterday in this House, I mentioned the widening gap between primary and secondary industries. I believe that people should have homes. Even when Labor was in office I bad to stress the need for housing when it was pointed out at that time that certain people in certain areas were living in garages, tents, etc. Members of the Labor Party today forget these things. They do not want to remember them. They forget them because, after all. they are playing politics on this question. As far as housing is concerned, I am not playing politics and I challenge any man to say that I am playing politics regarding primary industry because everywhere in the country we can see what is happening while the cities are booming. I just want to say that housing gives great opportunities for decentralisation. I think I quote the honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Chifley quite correctly as saying that certain people are being pushed to the outskirts of metropolitan areas and have a long way to travel to get into the cities where they work. Look, whether these people are being pushed out into those areas or not, I do not agree wilh them being congregated nearer and nearer to the centre of our cities. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
When the House suspended for dinner I was about to wind up my speech. 1 would say now that 1 would like the Opposition to consider the points I have made. I never cease to marvel at some of the speeches made opposite. One day the members of the Opposition are speaking against smog and pollution and saying that if this continues we will not be able to live in the cities. In the next speech they say that they want high rise flats, that they want people to live nearer the centre of the cities so that they will not have to travel so far from the fringe of the metropolitan area to work in the factories. I believe that at the present time we have all the evidence, and we have the right, to put forward a proposal that will take people - and factories too - out of the cities. Only in this way can this country survive. More and more people are going to live in the cities. They cannot continue to do this without injuring themselves by smog and pollution and without upsetting the whole economy of this country. 
Finally, let me say in summing up that we must at all limes consider the people of this nation. If, of their own inclination, they want to live in cities, they must be discouraged. We want to get them out where the fresh air and clear streams abound, for the good of their health and for the good of this nation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior in his capacity as the administrator of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. I ask: Would it be possible to arrange for a referendum in conjunction with the coming Senate election on the question to electors Do you favour a Socialist State?' Or does the coming Senate election give electors the opportunity to signify their opinion in this regard? 
I refer to the Bill to point out the amount of money that is being made available. I have not heard it said by any member of the Opposition who has spoken. The Bill provides: 
There is payable, during the year that commenced on the first day of July, 1970, to each State, for the purpose of financial assistance in connexion with the welfare and advancement (including housing), of the Aboriginal people of Australia living in that State, amounts not exceeding in the whole the amount specified in the First Schedule to this Act opposite to the name of that State. 
I look to find out how much money this is and I find in the First Schedule that the amount is $7m. That is a lot of money. I must compliment the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  on the work that he has put in. I compliment him not only for the sympathy he has for the Aboriginal people but also for the practical application of the feelings he has and for bringing before Cabinet what he thinks is necessary and getting such a magnificent sum as is payable this year. 
The Second. Schedule is for housing only. It provides for $4,800,000, which is included in the $7m. That sum should go a long way to assist in the housing of Aboriginals throughout Australia. Queensland is to receive the most money because most of the Aboriginals live in that State. The amount for Victoria - leaving out Tasmania because it hardly comes into the picture at all - is the smallest. Victoria is to receive $367,000 whereas Queensland, the major State, is to receive $2,538,000. After the amount of $4,800,000 is used for housing, as specified in the Bill, the balance is to be used for other welfare or advancement of the Aboriginal people. This means all sorts of things such as education and projects, or anything at all which, according to the Bill, would be for the advancement of the Aboriginal race. 
It has been said that some of the States may not spend such money in the way envisaged by the Minister and so are not up to the standard that he would desire But it is pointed out in the Bill - I was anxious to see this - that: 
If the Minister informs the Treasurer of thai State that he is satisfied that the State has failed, in respect of an amount paid to the State under this Act, to fulfil the conditions referred to in the last proceeding paragraph, the State will repay that amount to the Commonwealth. 
The preceding clause provides that the money is to be spent for housing and for the advancement of the Aboriginals, and if it is not spent in the way that it should be and if a State fails to take into consideration all those things that should be at the forefront of such legislation, then it will repay the relevant amount to the Commonwealth. I am not suggesting for one moment that this is likely to be put into force at all, because after all, although there was some mention made in the debate tonight of the States not spending the money in the correct way, from what I cao find out and see and hear, generally speaking the State governments are seized with the need to help the Aboriginals. With the Government making such a magnificent contribution towards this, surely the State Ministers who handle these matters will sea that the money is spent correctly. I have not had a great deal of experience with Aboriginals. But, as a young man, I lived in the western district of Victoria. At a place called Condah, there was an Aboriginal station. It was a mission station. I remember a man named Captain Crawford. He was in charge of it. The Aboriginals in those days, many years ago, were a very happy lot. I do not think that the station exists now. Some of the Aboriginals from around that area became farmers. They operated small farms and others entered into employment. Many are still living there. 
The names of the ones whom I knew in the past are still to be heard in the district. Most of those Aboriginals are doing well and respected. In fact, in that very place there was the son of a chief, a man named Angas King. He was a man who umpired football matches. He umpired cricket matches also. He was a man who was highly respected. T have read of his life. I remember seeing him on one occasion. I think that he was as highly respected as any white man in that district. He was a man of great outstanding character. No doubt, he did much to mould the general character of many of those with whom he came in contact. 
I am very happy to support this Bill. I shall not speak in detail about it because I am not criticising it. It is a Government 
Bill. 1 support the Government and I congratulate the Minister. I believe that the Government is acting in a way that will be pleasing not only to the Aboriginals but also to the people of Australia. 

Having  heard your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 will keep very closely to the terms of the Bill. In order to lay the foundation for the point I wish to make I shall quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  He said: 
As members of the House will recall, this Act increased the rate of bounty on phosphate fertilisers as from 13th August 1969. In the case of standard superphosphate the bounty rose from $8 per ton to $12 per ton. In accordance with section 5 of the principal Act, the new rates were only payable in respect of unsold stocks held by fertiliser manufacturers immediately prior to that date and production on and from that date. 
The Minister went on to say that following the announcement of the Government's decision representations were made requesting that stocks of phosphate fertilisers held by resellers on 13 th August 1969 be eligible for payment at the higher rate of bounty. The Minister said: 
Resellers holding stocks had been compelled in this case by competitive pressures to drop the price to the fanner by the full extent of the bounty increase.  1 have quoted that passage as I believe it answers a point made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  As a result of that situation, the resellers suffered some financial loss. I have a constituent who handles a lot of superphosphate, but he had very little in stock at 13th August 1969 and therefore did not suffer any great loss. However, when the previous rise in the bounty took place - 
On  13th August 1968, which is not so very long ago - he had large stocks on hand and lost considerably. The Minister has said that the phosphate bounty was introduced specifically to reduce the price paid by the user. 
The Government considers it unreasonable for resellers to carry the burden of the increase in the bounty on stocks held at the time the rate is changed. The point 1 make is that when the bounty was increased on 13th August 1968 my constituent, suffered a considerable loss, although it was stated by the Minister in respect of stocks held on 13th August 1969 that it was considered unreasonable for resellers to carry the weight of losses incurred through the bounty increase. I am putting to the Minister that in view of this statement about the position of resellers on 13th August 1969, surely the loss incurred by my constituent only a year before is unreasonable. I ask the Minister to consider making the provision of this measure retrospective to 13 th August 1968 when the price of superphosphate was increased. 
The Minister for National Development will recall that recently in this House I addressed a question to him seeking information on the likelihood of an early start on the building of the proposed Dartmouth Dam. The Minister replied that he could not supply the information until after a meeting on the subject that was arranged to be held in Sydney. As I understand that that meeting has now been held, can the Minister supply the information I sought? 
I want to refer to the second reading speech of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  on the subject we are debating so that honourable members will be reminded of just what we are debating. The Minister said: 
This Bill concerns financial grants to the States over the next 3 financial years to accelerate the measurement of the flow of rivers and the investigation and measurement of underground water resources. 
I fully support those remarks. The Minister went on to say in the same speech: 
The Government now proposes to make available  a  total of over $8.2m by way of grants to the States to assist in achieving the planned programmes in the next 3 years. This figure represents an increase of 80 per cent over the level of Commonwealth aid in the past 3 years and a threefold increase in assistance from the first 3-year programme. In making this increased contribution, the Commonwealth contemplates that the States  will increase their own contributions, in order that the objectives endorsed by the Water Resources Council may be achieved. 
I believe that water conservation is true national development because from water conservation springs ail kinds of development in Australia. It is a great aid to decentralisation and to greater production. I might mention that there is a very active association named the Murray Valley Development League that envisages a population of a million people in the Murray Valley. I advise everyone to get behind that organisation so as to assist it in the tasks it has undertaken and to which it is dedicated. I desire to say something in regard to the general water supply in Australia. lt has been stated that Australia is the driest continent in the world. That is probably true. For this reason we should take advantage at every opportunity to conserve the water that we have available. 
I was very pleased to listen to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  when he advocated the use of water pipelining. I have on many' occasions advocated the use of pipelining of water. I believe that the pipelining of the water being used from the River Murray in the Murray Valley, would provide us with an extra amount equal to that in all the storages that serve that area at the present time. The simple reason for this is, as has been stated by an expert on water supply, that in the electorate of Mallee which 1 represent in this place over 90 per cent of water is lost between the storage and the consumer, and this situation would obtain in many other areas. If the water that is now being lost was pipelined it would be conserved, and this would provide as much more water as the building of many more storages. Furthermore, if we build double the number of storages, that we have today there is no guarantee that we will be able to keep them filled with water, especially when it is needed in a dry period. If we can keep our present storages- filled with water and if we can convey the water by pipeline it must be a great advantage to productivity, to decentralisation and to the future of this nation. In regard to underground water in the Mallee electorate which is one of the great irrigation areas-- 
It is an area that covers the great Sunraysia district in which most of Australia's dried fruits are grown. It also encompasses other places such as Robinvale which is a new soldier settlement district that is proving very successful. The Mallee also includes Boundary Bend where a good deal of citrus is grown, and Nyah where citrus and dried fruits are grown. It also includes Woorinen where similar fruits are grown and Tresco which is further up the river. The Mallee also encompasses other places but 1 will not mention them tonight. I am particularly concerned with irrigation and I compliment the River Murray Commission on the work which it has done. 
It has been suggested in this House tonight that certain authorities should be set up. I have endeavoured over the years to have a Murray Valley commission or authority established to control the whole Murray Valley and deal with it in a way which would obtain maximum production and attract people to the valley because of the prosperity that would exist there. But 1 have always come up against a brick wall for the simple reason that the States have what they called sovereign rights. Whilst they have these sovereign rights they will not do anything that will result in some of their land being taken away from within their authority. I have asked the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to convene a meeting of the States and the Commonwealth to discuss this matter but it seems that there is no chance of this meeting taking place. The members of the State parliaments to whom I have spoken about this matter are irrevocably opposed to it. So we still have the old political arguments regarding the Chowilla and Dartmouth dams and other things. It takes a long time to bring about any worthwhile result. I do not want to go into the matter of Chowilla. I would not have mentioned it except for the fact that the last  speaker  did refer to it towards the end of his speech. In regard to Chowilla the former Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  said in this House on 25th September 1969: 
Technical representatives of the four governments concerned agreed that the best site for this storage is near Dartmouth, on the Mitta Mitta River, instead, of at Chowilla on the Murray River,  In  Sydney on 7th March, I met the Ministers responsible for water supply in New South 
Wales, Victoria and South Australia. That meeting agreed on conditions of water sharing, and other technical matters, under which the 4 governments would proceed with the construction of Dartmouth. At that meeting in Sydney, the 3 States specified that their agreement was conditional upon the Commonwealth providing finance to help them pay their share of the cost of the new storage. 
In Canberra, at the meeting with Premiers in June, this condition was met. The Commonwealth agreed to provide a loan to the States of half their share of the cost of the storage, in addition to the Commonwealth meeting its own quarter share. This committed the Commonwealth to an outlay of nearly $36m out of a total estimated cost of $57.5m. 
I need say no more about that. At that stage the Ministers in the 4 States had agreed. 
It was said in this House on 25th September 1969. 1 do not want to say any more about Dartmouth and Chowilla. I have stated very clearly what was said. I think that 1 will have to say something more about it now because an honourable member has interjected to say that I supported Chowilla. 
The honourable member says 100 per cent. 1 will not agree with that, but I did say in this House that I supported Chowilla for the simple reason that at that time the experts had agreed that Chowilla should be built. But very shortly afterwards and after more investigation the experts said very clearly that Dartmouth would supply much more water, that it would be clearer and readily available. Someone may say: Have you changed your mind on this subject?' Of course I have. I am not an expert on water conservation. Neither is the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  who is interjecting. Therefore we have to take notice of the River Murray Waters Commission and its expert advisers who are the best in the land. One may claim to be consistent and still retain the right to change his mind. A person may be consistent in not sticking to a certain opinion but being willing to change his mind if he can see reason for doing so. On these subjects I have been most consistent in all the years that I have been in this Parliament I do not want to challenge anybody - although I could - to prove otherwise. 
I know that certain members of the Opposition are coming around to the idea that Dartmouth should be built now. One honourable member said that it is important, it is necessary and it is vital to build Dartmouth now. He has changed his mind. I did not want to enter into a speech on the subject of Dartmouth. However, at about that time the Australian Labor Party moved a lengthy amendment which means that there had to be all sorts of investigations made into Chowilla and Dartmouth before that Party would agree to the construction of Dartmouth. This meant that construction would be held up a long time, because after the investigations had been made there still would have had to be agreement between the 4 States. 
I want to say a word or two about underground water. In the Mallee electorate there is a wonderful supply of this type of water which should be tapped and utilised. It is not only the Governments but also private people who are pushing hard and helping to bring about the exploitation of the underground water. I refer to Murrayville in the Mallee electorate which is over towards the South Australian border not very far from Pinaroo. In this part of Australia I have seen wonderful supplies of artesian water. Farmers in this area have been irrigating paddocks which have been able to carry 8, 9, 15 or perhaps more sheep to the acre. The only trouble was that if there were too many sheep to the acre they would tread down more feed than they ate. 
I would like to refer to a letter that 1 received from the Shire Secretary of the Shire of Walpeup. The letter states: 
Dear  Mr Turnbull.  You are no doubt aware of the 'Pomona Experimental Farm' at Murrayville, where the owner.  Mr F.  N. Bethune, has for the past ten years utilised the underground water for the purpose of irrigating crops. My Council has now been advised that  Mr Bethune  has offered some 1,300 acres of his property, free of any cost, to the CSIRO, on the condition that experimental work on the use of underground water, is carried out, with a view, to providing information to enable local farmers to irrigate portion of their properties and provide alternative income to wheat growing. 
The property concerned is valued by my Council at approximately $100,000 so the offer is indeed a most generous one and I request that you approach the CSIRO, urging them to give every consideration to accepting the offer and to set up a research staff on the property. 
Individuals can do much for national development and this is outstanding evidence of that.' I approached the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who is in charge of tht Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. He is in touch with the Organisation and no doubt will put this offer before it. I am hopeful that the CSIRO will accept it because without doubt the area around Murrayville has one of the greatest artesian basins in Victoria. I hope that the CSIRO will take over the 1,300 acres - this wonderful gift - and send people to experiment on it. If the CSIRO undertakes this experiment the result could be that the surrounding farmland for miles will have abundant supplies of water. The nature of the soil is such that if enough water is supplied almost anything will grow. Honourable members should see the peach trees that are grown at Murrayville and the fruit that they bear. These trees are supplied with water from a bore. This is an outstanding example of what can be done. The man who has offered the 1,300 acre* of land has made a wonderful contribution to national development. Perhaps he wants to help himself but his offer will also help many others. 
J, do not want to delay the House for too long because the hour is growing late and other honourable members desire to speak. I want to say that I am wholly and solely behind this Bill. I recognise the great value of irrigation and I will support it whenever I can. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  speak about Mt Gambier because 1 have often visited Millicent and Mt Gambier and the south east of South Australia. I have always been intrigued by the great Blue Lake at Mt Gambier which, as the honourable member said, provides the whole of Mt Gambier with water. The water in this lake does not fall below a certain level, and I do not think that even to this day anyone knows where the water comes from, but it is nature's godsend to Mt Gambier and it is appreciated by everyone. 
During my remarks I have mentioned the sovereign rights of the States and the fact that they will not agree to the establishment of a Murray valley authority. I have mentioned also that the Murray Valley Development League is dedicated to the proposition of opening up the Murray Valley, claiming that there is room there for 1 million people. What a great thing it would be for Australia if we could get the people there. Pollution and smog in cities like Melbourne and Sydney are generally brought about by congestion. What a great thing it would be for the health of the nation and the future of the Commonwealth if we could get people out to where the water is clear and the air is fresh. 
As the Whip of the Australian Country Party, I put my name on the bottom of the list of speakers. I had not intended to speak tonight because time is the essence of the contract. We want to get this Bill through this chamber as soon as possible and to get it to the Senate so that that chamber can pass it and it can become law as soon as possible. Some honourable members have aasked: 'Why all this rush?' It took some time for the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  - I must compliment him on doing an excellent job - to be sure that the primary producer organisations, specifically those concerned with wool, would approve of the legislation that he hoped to implement. He did a magnificent job in getting agreement from the chief primary producer organisations and wool bodies in Australia. 
So, the Bill is before the House tonight. As far as I am concerned, the sooner it is passed the better. Recently - I think it was last week, but it may have been this week - the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that members of the Australian Labor Party would do everything they could to facilitate the passage of the Bill. I believe they will do that. However, from some of the speeches I have heard tonight from Labor members condemning the Bill, it is a wonder to me that the Labor Opposition supports it. Members of the Labor Party were quick early in this debate to say: 'We do not oppose the measure. We will support it. We may have some amendments but if the amendments are not carried' - and from what I can gauge, I do not think they will be carried - 'we will support the Bill'. Yet they have condemned it. This seems strange to me and I cannot understand that attitude at all. 
One thing that would have brought me to my feel if nothing else had was the quoting by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  of what 1 said in 1964. What 1 said then was quite true; and it is true today. Regarding the auction system, the Bill is aimed at stopping collusion at auctions. A close watch will be kepton what is happening. Anyone who has had any experience of auctioneering or of the auction system will quickly realise if there is any collusion to bring prices down. I believe that the people who will be appointed to the Commission will be men who have had experience of auctions and of selling. They will quickly note whether collusion is taking place and take necessary action to stop it. After all, there can be collusion between buyers in private selling as well as in auction selling. It cannot be said that if there is private selling there is no collusion. Some people come from overseas to buy wool. One man may buy wool, take it to the United Kingdom and split it up between two or three Bradford mills. The situation must be watched closely not only in Australia but overseas, especially if the wool that goes overseas is being divided among different people who send one buyer to Australia to act for them. This will be one of the most difficult things for the Commission to overcome. It will have to be watched very closely. I hope it will be overcome and I give the Bill my best wishes in doing this. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said that the Australian Labor Party has a right to speak on wool legislation. He said: 'Although some members of the Australian Country Party seem to think that we do not have that right, we represent so many more rural electorates than does the Country Party'. That may or may not be so. but I put it to members of the Labor Party that in half of the electorates that he mentioned Labor wins the seat not on the rural vote but on the vote of a city within the electorate. If honourable members look at the returns of the elections they will find that a Labor Party candidate may have won but his vote in the rural area would not have got him very far towards victory on any occasion. 
The Japanese Trade Agreement has been mentioned tonight. I think that a lot of the new members do not know what happened when that Agreement came before the House. Every member of the Labor Party who was in the chamber when the vote was taken voted against the Agreement. It is on record in Hansard that the Labor Party of the day pledged himself to rescind the Agreement at the first opportunity. When honourable members opposite say: What rot' they should remember that their Party pledged itself at the first opportunity to rescind the Japanese Trade Agreement. The Labor Party has not been in office since then. When it gets into power, if it ever does, will it rescind that Agreement, or has it thrown this pledge overboard? These are the big questions that members opposite must answer if they can. 
We must have a Bill such as this to give the wool industry a chance to recover. All of the talk about the Country Party being to blame for the wool market languishing is so much rot. No-one can prove anything of that nature. The Country Party, of course, represents in this Parliament prim ary industry and country districts generally. It represents country towns and it knows that people living in country towns are dependent for their prosperity and well being on the produce of the surrounding farmlands and the price that can be obtained for that produce. Consequently I can say that the Country Party represents a great deal in that better part of Australia that lies outside the metropolitan areas. We give our wholehearted support to this Bill. I shall not go into details because members of the Country Party who have already spoken in the debate have gone into detail and have pointed out the ways in which this Bill will provide great help to the wool industry and to Australia. It has my full support. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (2.6 a.m.)I must admit that I have come into this debate a little late, but this was not my intention. 1 have been out on electoral business and when I came back I found that the list of speakers for the debate had been almost filled. Evidently members of the Australian Labor Party have been very concerned about the crisis in the wool industry and have been doing a lot of study on the subject to enable them to make their contribution to the debate. This, I believe, is to the credit of members of the Labor Party. Because of the large numbers of wool growers in my electorate, which, like that of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  has for a large part of it some of the worst country in Australia in a drought stricken area, I felt that at least I should ask the Opposition Whip to put me on the list of speakers to enable me to enter the debate for a few minutes at least. There is another reason for my entering the debate. I had not intended to mention this, but because of what was said by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  I propose to do so. I enter the debate also because of the large vote that I received in country areas. In many places the vote that I received was equal to that received by the Liberal Party and Country Party put together. Consequently, I feel that I should spend at least some time in dealing with the problems of the wool industry and that I should have the indulgence of the House to enable me to do so. 
I was very surprised to bear some members of the Country Party criticising honourable members on this side of the House because we have not spent years in the wool industry. Members of the Country Party seem to be very confused. It appears to me that some hurried agreement has been reached between members of the Country Party and members of the Liberal Party, but from listening to the debate tonight I have the impression that they are miles apart. If we were to talk to wool growers other than those who are members of the Country Party we would find that there is a three-way split because wool growers generally to whom I have spoken have an entirely different idea about a wool marketing scheme. 
Much has been said about the auction system. No doubt in the past the auction system has appeared to work all right, but the benefit of a system is not really known until it is subjected to pressure. I feel that this is what has been happening and that the wool growers have found that they can no longer carry the bankers and the brokers on their backs and are looking for a better system. I propose to accept the challenge issued by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and read out the Labor Party's policy on wool. I believe that this is consistent with what has been asked for by wool growers throughout Australia. I am very proud to have the opportunity to place this policy before the Parliament. 
The Opposition's policy is as follows: 
The establishment of a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the Australian wool clip on behalf of woolgrowers; 
A reconstruction scheme to assist in the solution of problems of production and streamline selling methods; 
A consideration of a tariff compensatory bounty to offset the serious cost disabilities incurred in the production of wool for export; 
A fully elected Australian Wool Industry Conference to represent all wool producing areas of Australia. 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
The establishment of a statutory authority which would be responsible for the acquisition, appraisal, marketing and distribution of Australia's annual wool clip. 
The authority would be conducted on sound business principles applicable to co-operatives. 
The authority would arrange for the acquisition and appraisal of the wool clip to be located in decentralised modern wool marketing complexes. 
Wool would be appraised and catalogued by competent appraisers under the jurisdiction of the authority in the short term, with the rapid progression to pre-sale testing by objective measurement and equivalent scientific techniques designed to improve, standardise and streamline the preparation and sale of the clip. 
After consultation and collaboration with world wool organisations and exporting and importing countries, an annual average appraisal price for the Australian wool clip to be determined, based on the level of realistic world prices. 
A minimum reserve price (floor price) would be then placed on all wools; those lots not realising the floor price, either by auction, tender or private treaty would be 'taken over' at the minimum reserve appraisement price by the authority. 
Special contracts or international bi-lateral agreements can be negotiated by the authority, acting in association with the 
 Federal Government. 
Wool growers would contribute a small percentage of the gross proceeds of (heir annual wool clip for a period of say five years in order to build a capital fund to control and market all surplus wools 'taken over'. (This would act as an 'insurance fund' until any wool 'taken over' is disposed of at the most satisfactory level of prices). 
All profits, after working expenditure and the provision for normal reserves, would be returned to wool growers each year. 
RECONSTRUCTION SCHEME 
The physical and economic problems associated with the production and handling of wool are becoming more evident as the cost price squeeze continues. 
In order to encourage continuous innovation with respect to: 
wool production and land use; 
domestic transport efficiency; 
wool handling and distribution; and 
pre-safe testing; development funds (grant and loans) be made available to the authority, the States and to wool producers. 
I believe that our policy is consistent with the decisions of wool growers throughout Australia. I feel there are some weaknesses in the proposition put forward by the Government, one such weakness being the composition of the authority. We heard the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  criticise the Australian Wool Board. 
If we read the suggested composition of the authority we see that the  Chairman  is to be appointed for 5 years by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Australian Wool Board. The Bill also provides for 2 woolgrower representatives to be appointed by the Minister also after consultation with the Australian Wool Board. But I believe that the main factor that will determine whether this authority is successful will be its form of leadership. I feel that this is the weakness in the composition of the authority. It appears to me that it has taken power right away from the woolgrower representatives. In ray opinion, any authority that is set up should have a majority of wool growers on it so that they can determine and advise other wool growers what is taking place. Also this would give them a voice in the authority and some power to select their own  chairman. 
Just in passing, I want to inform the House that the date on our policy is 22nd May 1970. I commend it to the House. 1 draw the attention of members of the Country Party to the fact that it was our intention, although we disagree with a lot of the proposals in this Bill, not to hold up the passage of the legislation. We realise the crisis in the wool industry. We do not intend to delay the passage of this legislation in case it does contain some benefits for the wool growers. We point out to the Country Party members that it is their responsibility to see that this proposal works. I am quite sure that the Liberal Party does not have a great deal of time for it. Judging from the speeches made by members of the Liberal Party, I feel that they would give it away at the first opportunity and say to their Country Party colleagues: 'It was your scheme. We did not want it anyhow.* I feel that the Country Party members have a bigger responsibility in this matter and 1 hope that they will live up to it because there is no doubt that there is a crisis in the wool industry. 
If the Commission buys the wool at certain prices, whether the prices are secret or not, I would like to know how it operates. This might be very simply answered. Will a man bid on behalf of the Commission, will the reserve price be known to the auctioneer, and when it is not reached will the  wool  he  knocked  down to the Commission? If there are 3 or 4 buyers for the Commission, they would soon become known and, of course, the moment any one of them started to bid people would know what the reserve price was. Will it just be bought in by the reserve and if it does not go above that will it be bought by the Commission? 
In asking my question of the Minister for the Army I refer to a headline in yesterday's Melbourne 'Herald' which reads: 'Army Will Hand Over Bay Rifle Range'. I ask: Does the Minister for the Army know that in this House at least three of his immediate predecessors as Ministers for the Army assured me at question time that the Williamstown rifle range in Victoria would be retained for Queen's prize shoots, interstate competitions and other important rifle shooting events? Is it true as stated that the Minister has entered into a firm proposal to give 20 acres of this range to the Williamstown Council and that the secretary of that Council has said that his Council expects to get the rest of the range for housing development? Will the Minister for the Army please clarify the position? 
As one who represents an electorate far removed from Darwin but having an interest in all Australia I compliment the Government on these 2 works for which it has sought the approval of the House. I also compliment the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  for the interest he has taken. It is my opinion that members can get too parochial, as T think, nearly every member of this House has on some occasion. 1 say very briefly that Darwin is a very important city and most important to the great north of Australia. These 2 measures are quite different. The first was for a primary school and the second for the development of the port of Darwin. They are opposite ends of a proposition, so to speak, but both very important, and I am very happy here this morning to know that the Government proposes to carry out these works. I compliment the Government, the Minister and the honourable member who represents the area. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
First of all, at this time of the year when Parliament is breaking up after the Budget session, I want to thank everyone in this House and the staffs of the different departments for the great courtesy and goodwill they have extended to me during this year and, of course, the many years that have passed since I entered this House. I have always greatly appreciated the goodwill because although we have debates and I find fault now and again with certain people I have never on any occasion taken my fight to personalities, only to politics, and I think that this is one of the reasons why I have enjoyed my stay in this House. But now, as other honourable members have done, I want to say some words about John McEwen. I want to say them very slowly and definitely. 
Let me say that I think he is one of the finest combinations of heart, conscience and brain in the community. He has been here for very many years. Only the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  who is unavoidably absent, and the Leader of my Party,  Mr McEwen,  were in this House when I was elected on 9th February 1946. Every other member on this side of the House - not the other side - has come since then. So I have had an association of nearly 25 years with the Leader of the Party and for 14 or 15 years I have been the Whip. The Leader of the Party is the leader. He is the boss, but the Whip is a sort of rouseabout manager and I have come in contact with him often in connection with politics. 
Contrary to my usual practice I have written one or two things down because I want them to be accurate. Honourable members seem to derive much amusement from that statement. If they had only waited till I had finished the sentence perhaps they would not have seen so much humour in it. I wanted to be accurate in phrasing. My statements have always been accurate in logic and, of course, in fact.  Mr McEwen  has been a practising farmer all the time he has been in this House. This has been something that has given him the chance from year to year, with the changing times and changing machinery and farming methods, to bring to this House the practical experience that he gained in the early stages of his farming and which increased as he went along. He came to this House and gave us the benefit of it. 
Whenever he spoke in this House, at meetings, conferences or overseas he was listened to with great attention because everyone seemed to know that what he said was valuable, worth hearing and worth taking into consideration. When the skein of events became tangled it was to his clear brain and logical thinking that men turned. Of course, on so many occasions his advice, having been taken, proved to be correct and Australia and the people who live here benefited greatly. He never lacked a sense of humour and has always been able to maintain his great faith in Australia and Australians and, perhaps I could say, particularly in primary producers and primary industry for which he has fought so valiantly. 
When I decided to speak in this debate I thought of that story 'A Message to Garcia' by Elbert Hubbard. The period of the story was the time of the Cuban war and General Garcia was somewhere in the mountain fastnesses of Cuba, no-one knew where. It became necessary for the  President  of the United States,  President  McKinley, to get a message to Garcia, but there was no way of getting it to him. There were no telephones, radio or anything of that kind and someone said: 'There is only 1 man who can do it, a fellow by the name of Rowan.' He was sent for and taken before McKinley and McKinley gave him a message. He wrapped it up in a waterproof package and then left. He crossed the narrow sea in an open boat and in 3 days had traversed the Cuban jungle and delivered the message to Garcia. The point I want to make is that he did not say: 'Why pick me?' He did not say: 'How can I find him?' He did not ask: 'Will tomorrow do?' or a lot of other fool questions that men ask sometimes for he was a man of action. People say that gold statues of such men should be placed before every school of learning throughout the world. 
We have any amount of men who can translate 1 language into another and solve all sorts of intricate problems but we have so few men of action, men who, metaphorically speaking, can carry a message to Garcia. John McEwen is one of those men. He carried a message, first of all I suppose, from the place where he was farming to Canberra, but the message was for all primary producers and people throughout the nation. Then, of course, what he has done since then has brought benefit to everyone in the community. I refer to the things that he has said and done in this House and been responsible for, such as, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said, the Japanese Trade Agreement which has had an effect on the lives of every man, woman and child in this community. My personal opinion of John 
McEwen is, of course, tremendously high. He has been a great friend of mine for very many years. I appreciate him as much as I possibly can. Let me finish where I started; I really believe he is one of the greatest combinations of heart, conscience and brain in our community. 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry and refer to the dried fruits research scheme. I ask whether the Minister can indicate when the Bill to give it legislative authority will be introduced in this House and whether he can give any other information regarding this scheme. 
ls the Minister for National Development aware of the deep concern of residents of the Mallee electorate and those in other electorates bounded by the Murray River at the delay in the commencement of the building of the proposed Dartmouth Dam? Has the Minister used all means available to convince the South Australian Labor Premier and his Government and the Labor Opposition in this House that this waste of time represents a disregard for security, production and national development? 
The Sunraysia District Council of the Australian Dried Fruits Association has been endeavouring to obtain from the Australian Broadcasting Commission improved radio services for the Mildura district, the Sunraysia district generally and, of course, others who would be within hearing distance of the new station. The improved services could be in the form of a relay station, a resident officer or increased power for the Renmark station. Today I only- want to introduce this matter very briefly, with the intimation that I will be following it up with further information and strong advocacy that something should be done in this area regarding a new ABC radio station. 
 Three proposals have been set out. One is the appointment of a regional officer who would send news to 3WV at Horsham, which also transmits to Warrnambool. This was thought not to be in the best interests of the area because the station at Horsham has enough news now. It always seems to have some news that it cannot use because of time limits. Therefore, if this proposal was adopted it would be very doubtful that the regional officer, being at Mildura, would be able to make the job worthwhile in view of the small amount of news that he would be able to have broadcast by 3WV, western Victoria. Apart from that the station is about 200 miles away from the dried fruits area and it would be better to have one nearer so we could get good clear programmes for the people who are chiefly engaged in the dried fruits industry. 
The next proposition was that the Renmark station would be given more power. In my opinion this is better than the first suggestion because Renmark is a dried fruits area although in a small way, of course, compared wilh Sunraysia where most of the dried fruit pack in Australia is grown. But there seem to be some technical difficulties and one man from the Australian Broadcasting Commission whom I questioned on the subject said that if we strengthened the power at Renmark we would have to strengthen the power of a lot of other stations. This was not considered to be the best thing but it is, I think, the second best. The best course is for the Australian Broadcasting Commission to put in a regional station to serve the Sunraysia area which is in the corner of 3 States. Such a station would also serve the dried fruits area across the river in South Australia but, as I have said, it would serve chiefly the Mallee electorate of Victoria where nearly all of the dried fruit is grown. 
We have just passed legislation in this House regarding the dried fruits research scheme. The findings of such research would be broadcast over this station. Many other things which would be of interest to this very important industry could also be broadcast. Dried fruits is, of course, a great export industry. It is not a big industry like wool or wheat but it is vitally important to Australia and, of course, to the people who reside in the area. I think I can say without any legitimate contradiction that Sunraysia is the most up to date and progressive soldier settlement area in Australia. But for irrigation and the dried fruits industry the area would be just rough mallee country. Everyone who has visited Mildura knows as well as I do that this is a very progressive area and one which should get every possible assistance. 
The member is the one who is now advocating that the area should get better treatment and more amenities regarding a radio station. 
I will be following up this matter with the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I am not going into fine detail now because I did not let the PostmasterGeneral know that 1 was bringing up the matter. I did not realise that I would have the opportunity this afternoon to do so, but as the business of the House, to a certain extent, is finished and we have 40 minutes to spare there was an opportunity for me to introduce the subject on the spur of the moment. When the Postmaster-General hears about this - he may read it in Hansard or someone may draw his attention to it - I want him to know that we are anxious to get this station. We are anxious to serve this industry and to give the people the most up to date radio programmes that we can. The station, of course, would not be tied down to giving advice to dried fruits growers or citrus growers. It would be a general station. The main basis of my advocacy is that we want some clear radio station of a national status in this area which will give to this industry, and to the people in the area, the programmes that we think are necessary and not have to send scraps of news 200 miles to Horsham and then be crowded out by the signals from the Warrnambool station and the Horsham station and not get the news across. A very vital thing to people listening to these stations is the frost alarms. People who have any knowledge of the industry know that one of the greatest hazards it faces is frost. Warnings could always be given regarding the approach of frost conditions and perhaps save the crop, thus avoiding a severe loss to those who grow the crops and, of course, to the nation. I urge the PostmasterGeneral to make some investigations into what I have said with a. view to his answering perhaps questions or replying to speeches that I intend to make in the House in the future on this subject. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Does the Minister know that according to reports the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn, has suggested that certain wool selling centres, including Portland, Victoria, should be discontinued and that the honourable member for Wannon, who represents the area, has signified opposition to such a move? As many wool growers in northwestern Victoria market their product at 
Portland, will the Minister visit the town at an early date and inspect its decentralised wool selling centre and its deep water port from which all wool sold there could be shipped? To overcome the anomaly of wool bought at Portland sales being sent to Melbourne for container shipping, will the Minister make investigations with a view to installing equipment to provide full containerisation facilities at that port and so, in this case, make decentralisation a reality? 
In the quieter atmosphere in the House this afternoon, 1 wish to submit one or two facts to prove a point about which I have been somewhat worried. I have often said in this House that we need to establish priorities. I believe that the No. 1 priority in this country always should be defence. It is no good having good crops, fine motor cars, excellent housing, congenial living or even a democratic government if we cannot protect those assets. Therefore, no man in his proper senses would deny that defence is our No. 1 priority. What should our No. 2 priority be? As I have said before, our No. 2 priority should always be water conservation. Water conservation increases production and people with lower standards of living who need help can be assisted first directly with the food produced and secondly with the money that is received from the produce that we sell overseas. 
This afternoon, 1 wish to refer to the controversy concerning the Dartmouth Dam and the Chowilla Dam. I wish to deal with one or two facts and to refer to Hansard so that I may illustrate what I think has been happening. Initially, the Chowilla Dam was selected by the 4 necessary to the agreement, although it was not ratified. Of course, later there was a reassessment of the position and the experts said that the dam should be built at Dartmouth. To ratify the construction of the Dartmouth Dam, legislation was presented in this House by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  on 17th March 1970. That is almost 12 months ago. On introducing the Murray Waters Bill 1970 he made many remarks that I have not the time to deal with closely today. But he said in part: 
It will suffice at this stage to say that all the time of its authorisation by the four contracting governments, the Chowilla storage was estimated to cost $2Sm. In March 1966 as a result of more detailed design studies prior to the calling of tenders the estimated cost was revised to $43m. When tenders were considered in April 1967 the most favourable tender received resulted in a further upward revision of the cost to $68m. Obviously, an increase of about 250 per cent in the estimated cost over a period of 4 years raised doubts as to whether the early basis for selection of Chowilla as the most favourable development for the next stage was still valid. 
Following on from that, the debate was adjourned. 
The second reading debate was resumed in the House on 8th April 1970. As Hansard indicates, the debate continued past midnight on 8th April and continued into 9th April. When the debate commenced, the first  speaker  was the Labor Party shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The contribution that he made to the debate to which I wish to refer specifically is the amendment that he moved supported by all Opposition members. It appears on page 835 of Hansard of 8th April 1970. It reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the Slates for the establishment of a national water conservation and construction authority, embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority, to carry out a systematic and efficient development of soundly based water storages in the major river basins including the Murray and Darling systems.' 
At page 831 of Hansard of the same date he said: 
. the Bill sounds the death knell of Chowilla. 
Members of the Opposition, chiefly from South Australia, who spoke all said this, but perhaps in other words. 
They were chiefly from South Australia. They said that this was the death knell of Chowilla, that Chowilla would never be and, that it would never come into being at all. At the time J did not realise what was happening. But I do now. What they wanted to do was to get the idea about that if the Dartmouth Dam was approved and was built the Chowilla Dam would never become a reality. The reason for that is now obvious. They wanted to spread throughout South Australia the news that once Dartmouth was built Chowilla would be out. Of course, the campaign was very successful, although the information was completely incorrect, and that has been more or less admitted now. 
What happened at the time was that the then Leader of the Opposition in South Australia thought that this was a good way for him to win the election and become Premier. This news was spread throughout the countryside, and  Mr Hall,  the South Australian Premier at that time, was defeated at the election on the Chowil laDartmouth issue. That was the main basis of the whole argument, and that is the issue on which the then Premier,  Mr Hall,  was defeated. This information was spread throughout the countryside, although it was completely wrong. Nevertheless, the people in South Australia believed it and they voted accordingly. 
I will move quickly over what happened because today is 25th February. We find that just recently there has been a complete change on the part of the Premier of South Australia and he says he will ratify the Dartmouth agreement. 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for National Development. What is the present position regarding the building of Dartmouth Dam? Is it a fact that the Premier of South Australia has said that his Government is prepared to break the deadlock and ratify the agreement? Did the Premier of South Australia and his Government cause the deadlock and so put the building of Dartmouth in what one honourable member would describe as 'cold storage' for at least 10 months, to the detriment of production and national development? 
We are discussing the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill 1971. This is a specific Bill before the House tonight. I think that the deciding factor in ascertaining whether the case which the Australian Labor Party advances is legitimate is the question: Will Labor support the Bill? Will it vote against the Bill? This is the question. As I have said, this is a specific Bill. No self respecting Government will allow an Opposition to take the business of the House out of its hands. I can assure honourable members opposite that the Government has self respect and it has respect for the nation, otherwise it would not have been returned to office again and again over the last 21 years. After all, the Labor Party praises the great political sense of the Australian people, but then it turns around and says: 'This Government has done all sorts of wrong. It is not worthy of its place.' How did the Government get its place as the government in the community in this democratic country? It was by the vote of the people. 
If the Government had been as bad as the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  said it had been - and that was one of the worst speeches I have heard on this subject in this House; he got right  away  from the Bill and condemned the Government - how could it have survived for all of those years? Abraham Lincoln said that you cannot fool all the people all the time. He was right, and there has been no fooling of the people in this country because the Government has brought down legislation which the people supported. Now the Labor Party said! - and I am answering what has been said - that at election time the Government brings forward a gimmick. Was there ever a greater gimmick than the Labor Party brought forward when it introduced the Snowy Mountains legislation? The Labor Party turned the first sod. Which Government raised all the money and got from overseas all the big earth moving equipment and did the job in the Snowy Mountains? It was this Government. The people throughout the Murrumbidgee area and right down through the Murray River area which is in the electorate that I represent are appreciative of the great work that  has  been done by this Government. Labor did nothing whatsoever concerning the Snowy Mountains except turn the first sod. At the next election which was held on J 10th December 1949  -  a month or so after the Snowy Mountains scheme was announced - Labor was thrown out of office,  and  it has been out of office ever since. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Mallee that the Bill does not deal with  the  Snowy Mountains scheme, it deals with a  number  of rivers and is concerned with the flood mitigation scheme in New South Wales. I ask the honourable  member  to  return  to the Bill. 

 - Sir, I was only asking you. for guidance, whether I could deal with the subject in the same way as the honourable member for Sturt dealt with it. All 1 am seeking is your guidance. After all, the honourable member for Sturt condemned this Government roundly, and as he did that I have the right to put forward what this Government really has done. Surely 1 am allowed to do that. Anyway, let roe move on. Honourable members opposite say that the question of irrigation should have been brought into the flood mitigation scheme. Australia is a great irrigation country, lt has some 3,357,000 acres of land under irrigation. About two thirds of the irrigation is along the Murray River and its tributaries, including the Murrumbidgee which flows through the States of New South Wales Victoria and South Australia. In these areas irrigation is used to produce many crops. 
When the honourable member for Sturt rose to speak he said that as he was the second  speaker  in succession on the Opposition side, why was not the Government putting up its speakers? He said that members of the Labor Party have to speak on anything concerning primary industry. I say to him that he should look at the debates recorded in Hansard on wheat, wool, dried fruits and any other product one likes to mention. He will see that after about three or four speakers the Labor Party has run out of speakers because its members do not have any knowledge of the subject. We hear speeches from members, like the honourable member for Sturt who made a speech in which he merely condemned the Government. He did not put forward anything concerning the subject of the debate before us at the present time. 
I do not want to make a long speech on this Bill, to which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has moved an amendment. As the Bill refers specifically to New South Wales I was hesitant about speaking on it. If I read the Bill correctly, it refers to the northern rivers of New South Wales. 
I am asked whether I think that the Government should do something about my electorate. I do not use the words 'my electorate' to refer to the Mallee electorate. It is the electorate that I represent. One might say what a ridiculous thing it is for any member to rise in this House and talk about 'my own electorate*. The electorate that I represent is named Mallee. It is no more my electorate than it is the electorate of anyone else. I have represented it for the last 25 years. That is the position. 
The Government has done an amazing amount over the years for this electorate. It has helped to provide the area with water to build up the great Sunraysia dried fruits area which produces 75 per cent of the whole dried fruits pack in Australia. The Government has done a magnificent job in regions such as the Murrumbidgee irrigation area in New South Wales. Consider the millions and millions of dollars that the present Federal Government raised for use in constructing the Snowy Mountains project. Yet, the Labor Party claims credit for that scheme. The Government has done a magnificent job. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I remind you of the fact that I was elected to this House on 9th February 1946. I entered the House when the Parliament met shortly afterwards. Are you aware of the fact,  Sir, that  I had to urge the then Labor Government to do something about the Snowy Mountains scheme? The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is shaking his head. Is the honourable member saying my statement is not correct? If so, I invite him to read Hansard. I never make a statement in this House unless I know that I can back it up to the hilt by reference to Hansard or otherwise. Labor decided later to turn the first sod on this project. 
The main point that I wish to make in referring to this Bill is that it is a measure that has been asked for by the Government of New South Wales. The New South Wales Government approved of this legislataion The Bill is now before the House for its approval. I do not think that the Labor Party will vote against this Bill. Nor will the Labor Party condemn the Government in regard to this scheme. The dilemma that faced the Labor Party was that it might have to vote for this progressive Bill that will help with flood mitigation and at the same time probably help with irrigation and water conservation without making any other move. Suddenly, the Labor Party had an idea. This was that it would move an amendment which, if carried, would take the operation of this scheme completely out of the hands of the Government. But the Labor Party will not be successful. 
State governments have big schemes of all types for irrigation purposes. Flood miti gation is not proposed everywhere because some places do not suffer from floods as much as others. This is so in my own area. But we have irrigataion projects. The Government is always watchful on this subject and is always willing to meet the State governments with a $1 for a $1 subsidy or a specified amount for each $1 raised by a State government. These subsidies are payable in respect of such projects as the Dartmouth Dam scheme. In fact, the Government is supplying most of the money by far for the Dartmouth Dam scheme. So no-one can turn to the Government and say that it does not believe in irrigation. 
The name of the  Deputy.  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  has been mentioned in the debate. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  seemed to indicate that the present  Deputy  Prime Minister was leader of the Country Party at the time when  Mr McGuren  was a member of this House. He was not. I was a member of this House when  Mr McGuren  was here. Certain things that have been said regarding what the present  Deputy  Prime Minister is alleged to have said have been denied on 3 or 4 occasions. It is a very easy thing in this House for a member to take a small piece of a speech out of its context in Hansard and quote that section in the House. That is what has been done tonight. The piece quoted reads as though the member speaking meant a certain thing. If only that part of the speech is read, that can be the case. Honourable members opposite seem to think that they can use quotations out of context to condemn people. This is what has been happening tonight on quite a few occasions. It is completely wrong in every way for any honourable member to do such a thing. 
I turn to the speech made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  Actually, I think that 1 can leave the subject of his speech because, as I have said, the Australian people are politically conscious of what is happening in this country. 
Mention was made of the alleged narrow, parochial attitude of the Country Party. The Australian Country Party stands Cor the main factors in our national wealth. That is the clipping of the golden fleece, the harvesting of the golden grain, and the cultivation of the countless other products of the soil. We stand for rural and primary industries. We believe that by fostering them we may have a chance of keeping people from drifting to the cities. For the honourable member who repersents a city electorate of Adelaide to rise and say that the Country Party has a parochial view is so ridiculous that perhaps I should not comment on it. Will the Labor Party vote for the Bill if it loses the vote on its amendment? This will be the deciding factor because the amendment to the Bill which is not opposed by the Opposition is only put up by the honourable member for Dawson in an endeavour to take attention away from the Labor Party when it was supporting something that has been approved by the State and Federal Governments, and something that has been introduced into this House in the best interests of New South Wales and the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I have been listening very carefully to the debate and I can quite understand that anyone listening or anyone reading the report of it later in Hansard would wonder what it is all about. Therefore 1 am going to try to explain what it is all about by reading rather extensively from the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  As honourable members know, it is not my practice to read my speeches but on this occasion 1 will read extracts from the speech of the Treasurer. 1 will also refer briefly to one or two remarks that have been made during the debate and comment on them. I do not, however, want to enter into a full scale debate on wheat growing and primary production and the advisability or otherwise of recognising Red China and all those other matters that have been raised and have nothing to do with the legislation before us. As I say, I will read extensively from the second rending speech of the Treasurer so that people will know what we are talking about. The Treasurer stated: 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligation under a guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheal Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of wheat from the 1969-70 pool. A similar loan, whose repayment will be completed during March 1971, was made last year in respect of wheal from the 1968-69 crop. 
To assist in the marketing of the 1969-70 crop, arrangements were made for the Board lo borrow up to S398m from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The dale for final repayment is 31st March 1971- 
I have a question to ask the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  When everything is boiled down does this Bill mean that this money is being advanced so that the Australian Wheat Board can pay $1.10 a bushel for wheat? Does it mean that the Government is giving great assistance to the wheat industry and that without this assistance it would be very hard to say how the industry could continue producing even under the present circumstances? Has this Bill been introduced with the main object of assisting the wheat industry by providing finance from this Government in view of the hard times the industry has had owing to a world glut in wheat? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it the Government's intention in the near future to submit to a further poll of growers of dried vine fruits a plan for the stabilisation of the Australian dried vine fruits industry? 
I had intended to speak on a different subject but I think I had better make some comments regarding the speech made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  after which, before he leaves the House, I will make some remarks regarding the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  First of all, regarding the honourable member for Grayndler, let us test what he said. He said that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is afraid to announce his Ministry and will not do so until the House rises for recess. Is this true? Later this year the House will rise for the winter recess and this means that if in the meantime the Prime Minister announces his Ministry the honourable member for Grayndler is wrong and if he does not announce it until after we rise for the winter recess then the honourable member is right. There is a way of finding out these things. The honourable member for Grayndler also said that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  would not continue to serve as  Deputy  Whip under the former Prime Minister. What a ridiculous thing to say. The honourable member for Lilley has never been  Deputy  Government Whip in this House. How can he continue to serve if he has never been  Deputy  Whip? When the honourable member for Grayndler puts things forward they are completely wrong. 
I am the  Deputy  Whip in this Parliament and I should know. But the honourable member for Grayndler gets up and makes a speech and says 'I am told'. Who is telling him these things? That is a very easy thing to say. He also said that Ministers are walking about the House in a trance. I have not noticed that. During question time the answers which Ministers have given have been right up to date. Everything has been going on normally, therefore how could one work out the things that are being said by the honourable member for Grayndler? They have not one iota of truth in them. 
Of course, when the honourable member for Grayndler gets an opportunity of having what we might call in the House the drop on a member because a member has spoken before him he is ruthless in what he says. A lot of honourable members do not know that the honourable member for Grayndler and I took part in debates for week after week. This was reported as one of the main items in the Melbourne 'Herald' column Overnight in Canberra.' Look at the honourable member blushing now. In those debates I soundly thrashed him on every occasion. When I say 'soundly thrashed him' I want to put emphasis on that because if honourable members go back and look at the statements on these subjects in the Herald' they will be able to read them in cold print and not have to say that somebody told them. There is one other thing I want to say about the honourable member and I want to be as kind as possible to him. As honourable members know, and if they do not know they should watch and learn, that I never tackle personalities, only policies. But when a man makes statements like this they must be answered or people throughout the nation would think they were true. 
The crowning thing said by the honourable member for Grayndler - this was reported in Hansard - was that the former leader of the Country Party would not have a bar of the present Prime Minister. The honourable member generally likes to tie me in with his statements and he said: The honourable member for Mallee supports this right up to the hilt'. Honourable members should read what I said, as reported in Hansard. The only way 1 could speak was to take a point of order, as I did the other day on much the same sort of occasion. I said:  'Mr Speaker,  have I to sit here and listen to the honourable member for Grayndler making statements in which there is not one iota of truth?' How could he say that I was in it? The honourable member will say anything at all if he can get away with it. We know that. We in the Country Party treat him more or less as a joke because now and again he is amusing. I believe that an amusing  speaker  sometimes eases the stress of a debate. We had a very good illustration of this during a debate last week in which there was a lot of tension. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was making a startling speech about one thing and another and the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  - the former leader of the Labor Party- said: 'Rubbish'. That broke the whole thing up. Everybody laughed and the tension was dissolved. So I give the honourable member for Grayndler credit for reducing the tension. But why he always tries to tackle me I do not know. 1 want to say something quickly about the honourable member for Dawson because I promised I would and he is waiting for it. As far as he is concerned by interjection I said that I had had enough of him and could not stand him any more. If I did not explain that statement people reading Hansard would say: The honourable member for Mallee should not be saying these things'. I cannot understand some things- 
I meant that I cannot understand some of the things that the honourable member for Dawson does. I extend the best of good will to him as I do to every honourable member, but every chance he gets he makes some sort of a hit at me. The other day he said that I read my speech like a parrot. 
There, the honourable member's own relation says that it is never true. But the whole point is that honourable members know that I do not read my speeches. The other night I read extensively from the second reading speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on a wheat Bill in order to explain what was happening because the debate had been going on for so long that no-one seemed to understand what the Bill was about. Then the honourable member for Dawson spoke. I do not really want to go into what he said, but let me say to him: You would be much more appreciated not only by me but by the whole House if you kept away from these ridiculous statements you make about people reading like parrots, and so on. I will admit that I am a lot better  speaker  than I am a reader. That is because I do not read speeches, I make them. If the honourable member finds any fault in that he should get up and say so. 
The subject on which I had intended to speak I will have to leave altogether. I want to comment on the attack on the new Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  Dear me, I do not know why a new Minister should be attacked and damned before he starts on the job. He is a man of high intellect and good education, a man dedicated to the proposition of representing the people. Having been placed in this position he will, of course, do his best. So I cannot see why this attack should be made upon him. There are only about 3 members in the House who would do this. All the others would not make unqualified attacks on him or me because I will not do that to them. I realise that there is only one member who does things such as walking up and looking a member right in the eye when he is speaking, as the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  does. This is not appreciated. Now he has done it again. When I asked the  Deputy Speaker  to do something the honourable member said: 
I do not know of anything in the Standing Orders which would allow an honourable member to be charged with dumb insolence. 
That is what he said. It is certainly dumb insolence which he puts across to me on occasions but most times it is the very opposite to dumb. He sounds like a fog horn in my ear. I do not challenge very much - I am generally challenged - but I have challenged the Australian Labor Party to take from this corner near me the honourable member for Sturt who has just walked in and again shown dumb insollence, as he calls it, put htm in the centre of the Labor Party benches and put up with him. I make this request for the simple reason that I sit near the honourable member for Sturt and when I start protesting I am called to order by the  Speaker.  But the point is that the honourable member for Sturt is cunning and the remarks which he makes about different people - myself included - are in an undertone and the  Speaker  does not hear. If the  Speaker  heard these things he would immediately order that the honourable member withdraw or he would name him. 
Let me issue the challenge to the Labor Party again: Do not leave me in the hot seat here. Put this member over on the other side of the House in the midst of its members and let them put up with him. I do not think that Labor Party members would put up with him at all. Those on the other side of him have to put up with him but I have to put up with him on this side. If the honourable member were moved the Labor Party members on both sides would have to put up with him. I hope that things will be straightened out. I even have a hope that the honourable member will mend his ways and not interject and call out continually in the House. 
I want to speak very briefly on a subject which I have very seldom or perhaps never touched on before in this House. I compliment the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  for asking a question on the subject this morning. It concerns the action of certain Australian National University students in what I would call vandalism in the Australian Capital Territory. I am taking my information from the 'Canberra Times' because I have no personal knowledge of the situation. I have not seen what has happened but I take it that the newspaper is correct. The headline is: 
Students daub again. 
A picture in the newspaper shows slogans on the wall of the Garran residence of the Third Secretary of the South African Embassy,  Mr D.  W. Steward. There is quite a lot of writing on it such as: 'Go home white Africans'. The writing is large and very poor. It does not befit a reasonable university student, although some of them are atrocious writers. Nevertheless this is only vandalism. I make no comment about apartheid, lt is not my idea to speak on apartheid this afternoon. The honourable member for Boothby asked a question of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who replied that this was a civil offence which the police in Canberra could attend to. This may be correct; but what are the police doing about it? One or two students have been charged. The article goes on to state: 
About 30 people demonstrated outside the South African Embassy last night while a small group of university students painted anti-apartheid slogans on the British High Commission and the residence of the South African Embassy,  Mr D.  W. Steward, of Garran. 
The students responsible for the slogans said outside a university hall of residence that they represented a militant faction of the anti-apartheid committee o the ANU. 
One of the students said they would have painted slogans on the homes of the South African information attache and the attache^ had they been suitable. 
The students said they would go to any extent, without injuring people, to express their opposition to apartheid and the coming South African rugby union tour of Australia. 
The words 'No arms for South Africa' were daubed in black paint on a wall of the British High Commission. 
Before the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made his ministerial statement we were discussing 3 Bills in connection with the dried fruits industry. These Bills are the Dried Fruits Research Bill 1971, the Dried Fruits Levy Bill 1971 and the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who was the previous  speaker  in this debate, explained the provisions of the Dried Fruits Levy Bill and the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill. He also spoke about the Dried Fruits Research Bill, which is the main Bill of the three. There is no need for me to go over the technical parts of the Bills with which the honourable member for Dawson has dealt, because anyone who was listening to him would have heard this explained and others can read in Hansard what the honourable member had to say. The honourable member for Dawson said that the Opposition supports these Bills. I appreciate that announcement very much and there is not very much for me to say in that regard. 
I represent at least twice as many dried fruits growers as all other members of the House of Representatives combined. Therefore, I am very concerned with anything that happens in the dried fruits industry. I am most happy with the Dried Fruits Research Bill which has been approved by State Ministers for Agriculture and the Australian Dried Fruits Association and which is generally accepted by growers. I would like to make one or two remarks. I do not want to repeat what has been said by the honourable member for Dawson for I am always a great cooperator if I get the opportunity. It is only when I think that what has been said by some members is not right that I try to put them right, but never in a personal way. 
The Bill is in line with the normal Government procedure of providing match ing contributions on a $1 for $1 basis to meet expenditure on approved research projects. One thing about the Bill with which I am very pleased and which has not been mentioned in the debate is that the funds provided by the industry and the Commonwealth will be used only for additional research. Excellent research work is already being undertaken by the State departments of agriculture and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, especially at the Merbein station of the CSIRO which was extended recently at a cost of $120,000. That station has done splendid work for the dried fruits industry and it will continue under this Bill in its usual capacity. The staff there numbers 70. It has an annual budget of about $500,000. The station has been operating for 50 years. The people of the area are quite rightly very proud of it. 
There was quite a crowd at Merbein when the extensions to the CSIRO station were opened by the Minister for Works,  Senator Wright.  Also present were CSIRO executives. I quote from the 'Sunraysia Daily' what was said by  Dr Price,  the  Chairman  of the CSIRO, when speaking at the opening of the new administration building and library at the CSIRO division of horticultural research station at Merbein.  Dr Price  said: 
Scientists, by showing how to produce efficiently and economically, did point the way to an abundance of production, but at the same time research did lead to improved quality. 
He said: 
Primary industry faced problems that were political, social and economic as well . . . Science had shown the way to compete better on the world market. 
He pointed to colour and cleanliness as 2 ways research bad helped the dried fruits industry. He said: 
Science in agriculture also has aided the development of new markets, diversification and given greater flexibility to production and marketing of crops. 
Generally speaking, in all primary industries throughout Australia there has been some research, more in some industries than in others. The Australian dried fruits industry is one which requires continual research, perhaps more than any other industry. I think I am right in saying that about 50 years ago the research station of the CSIRO at Merbein started to operate because of an outbreak of fungus black spot. The station has been operating ever since. Black spot and all sorts of pests have cut down the volume and the quality of dried fruits. This Bill, in addition to what the CSIRO and the State departments of agriculture do, will add greatly to effectiveness by showing growers how they can overcome at least what is possible to overcome of the menaces that sap the dried fruits industry of its economic wealth. 
The dried fruits industry is a very great export industry. I refer to the 'Australian Handbook" for 1971 which points out that from 1930 to 1939 the dried fruits production averaged 70.000 tons and for the seasons from 1950  to  1959 the average was 78,389. It is necessary to have irrigation for growing grapes for dried fruits. The Handbook points out that the irrigated areas produced 85,000 tons of dried vine fruits in the 1967-68 season, and 67,000 tons of these were exported. The 1968-69 crop was severely affected by heavy rain and was 40 per cent below average. This year again the crop is very low, I am sorry to say. Growers are concerned about the general prospects. I have kept in close touch with the industry, which is situated chiefly in the Mallee electorate. I have corresponded with people when I could not visit them due to my attendance in this chamber. 
The honourable member for Dawson spoke about stabilisation. I think that any primary industry that is not stabilised is out of touch with reality. A number of years ago the stabilisation of the dried fruits industry was started and ran for quite a period. As has been stated, about 12 months ago or a little more the growers in a poll refused to give their approval to the stabilisation plan that was put forward by the Government. I think that 65 per cent of the growers voted for it and about 35 per cent against it. A statutory number of votes was required, not just a simple majority, so the stabilisation plan suggested by the Government on that occasion lapsed. I would like the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  when he is replying in this debate to give some estimate of what the dried fruits industry might have lost by not supporting stabilisation, lt has been stated, that there has been a split in the dried fruits industry. This is right to a certain extent, but it is right only in relation to that vote, because certain people in the industry advised growers to vote against the proposition. 
The greatest trouble was the apathy of growers who thought that the proposal would be carried quite easily and did not vote at all. 1 know that the Minister has had long and serious discussions with representatives of the ADFA. 1 hope - he may tell us this - that he is reaching a stage where another proposition for stabilisation will be submitted to the growers, lt is my prediction that this time they will not let it pass by. They will vote for it and so will have stabilisation. I regard the dried fruits industry as one of the most precarious industries of all. First of all the crop is supposed to show a certain production. The growers say that the sugar has come down into it. It is sometimes hard to get pickers. When the grower does get pickers and the crop is picked and put on the racks, his troubles usually continue. The grower does not know what his return will be even when the crop is in the packing shed for then there is the situation with markets and the world conditions. 
The reasonable attitude adopted by the honourable member for Dawson in this debate is appreciated. I support the Bill very strongly. The honourable member said that in the Committee stages the Opposition will move 2 amendments. I shall wait to see what they are before I can comment on them. The growers representatives in negotiation with the Government and with all the Ministers of Agriculture have brought forward a Bill very acceptable to this Parliament and to that great primary producing unit, the dried fruits industry. 
I refer now to increased plantings. There is some concern in the dried fruits industry that increased plantings may bring about quantities of grapes, especially dried fruit grapes, that the growers may not be able to market. I do not want to say more about this, because the matter of increased plantings is definitely in the hands of the State governments. The Commonwealth Government has nothing whatever to do with it and can perhaps only offer advice on the subject. It is not my idea to offer advice on it here today, but in my electorate I am always willing to meet people and discuss the matter with them. I support the 
Bill. 1 believe it will be in the best interests of the industry, of the exports that benefit Australia, and of the Commonwealth generally. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK  (Darling) (4.49)- I cannot understand why the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  made a point of informing the House that he represents more dried fruit growers than any other honourable member. Of course there are many fruit growers in my electorate. Whether they represent the largest number of fruit growers in any electorate does not seem to me to be the most important issue in this debate. Whether or not they represent the greatest number, they are entitled to good representation in this Parliament, and honourable members on this side of the House intend to see that they gel such representation. Mention was made of the stabilisation scheme and the fact that some of the growers failed to vote on this very important issue. Of course, it is well known why they did not vote. It was because they were not satisfied with the proposition that was being put forward, and they wanted some say in the alteration of the proposition. The honourable member for Mallee mentioned that a new stabilisation scheme has been considered. It is to be hoped that greater notice will be taken of the growers' opinion in the formulation of the new scheme and that greater consideration will be given to their wishes in the matter. 
I support in principle the establishment of the Dried Fruits Research Trust Account mentioned in the Dried Fruits Research Bill 1971. However, I consider that many of the clauses of the Bill are obnoxious in that they fail to guarantee the grower any real representation on the proposed Dried Fruits Research Committee. These clauses must create the impression in the grower's mind that he will have little or no say regarding the direction that research will take. Clause 1 1 states: 
The Committee shall consist of - 
four persons to represent the organisation known as the Australian Dried Fruits Association; 
two persons to represent the packers of dried fruits; 
three persons to represent the organisation known as the Australian Agricultural Council; 
one person to represent the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation: and 
one person to represent the Department of Primary Industry. 
In other words, on the Committee, there is not to be direct representation of the dried fruit grower; yet he is the one most dependent on the results of research. It is evident from the wording of the Dried Fruits Levy Bill that this Government, irrespective of its wishes regarding the composition of the Committee, leaves no doubt which group it thinks should pay the piper. Of course this is not any of the groups mentioned in the clause relating to the composition of the Committee. These groups will have all the say about where the research will take place, who shall bc trained for the purpose of such research, and the publication of reports, periodicals, books and papers in connection with such research. As far as the grower is concerned everything is done in an indirect manner in regard to the dried fruits research. Until we reach the point at which it is decided who should pay the levy to support the Dried Fruits Research Committee's expenses and the expenses involved in carrying out its decisions, it is very indirect. But from this point on the Bill leaves no doubt that it is the grower who is expected to pay. Clause 5(1.) of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill is one of the most Viscious clauses in that Bill, lt states:   . . levy on dried fruits of a season received for packing on or before the thirtieth day of September in that season is due for payment on the thirtieth day of November in that season. 
This means that the grower, who at present is badly in need of credit and often has to wait more than 2 years to receive payment for his dried fruits, is now expected to pay this extra levy in 3 months. If he cannot pay the levy in 3 months he then has to pay interest on the amount to the extent of 10 per cent per annum, lt appears to me that whoever drew up this Bill gave little or  do  consideration to the very serious economic, situation of the dried fruit industry. The Bill provides ample protection for the packers. This is given in sutch clauses as clause 9 of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill, which states: 
Where the packer of any dried fruits received for packing has paid a levy on those dried fruits, he is entitled lo recover the amount of that levy from the grower of the dried fruits as a debt due to the packer from the grower. 
The Government is also protected because not only is the interest rate on unpaid levy 10 per cent but the grower  Ls  also liable to a fine of $200 . if he fails or neglects to furnish a return or information that he is required under the regulations to furnish. This provision can be found in clause 11 of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill. In addition, a prosecution for an offence against this proposed section may be commenced at any time within 5 years after the commission of the offence. This clause will be the subject of the amendment we have foreshadowed in the Committee stage. 
I believe that the whole spirit of this Bill takes no cognisance of the grave economic position of the dried fruits industry. It does not consider what is to happen to the grower who pays the levy. The products have to pass inspection to ensure that the citrus, dried or canned fruits are wholesome and fit for consumption; that they will in fact conform to specifications. But when the producer makes a purchase of pesticide or spray chemical he receives no such guarantee of effectiveness. As has already been mentioned in this Parliament, a particular case is that of citrus red scale. There is nil tolerance for rod scale on citrus fruit packed for export. The grower is forced to spray the fruit or his fruit will not be accepted. Yet grower-financed tests have shown that of 20-odd brands of a recommended chemical only one will consistently kill red scale. There is no Government inspectorial service inthis field, and yet many of the growers say that spray chemical bills exceed their net taxable income. 
In the production of sultanas it is well known that prices are low and costs are high. The seemingly obvious answer is to produce more tons per acre. The growers' organisation already contributes a large sum towards research into better root stocks and high producing cones for grafting on to them. I am told that they are now available for planting in Mildura, but a. man-made rule decrees that vines certified in Victoria may not be planted in South Australia. The whole of this research must be duplicated in South Australia, and while the grower waits there comes the really serious blow. Growers completely new to the industry are taking the improved varieties and planting large areas further upstream. While the present production is already in excess of demand, of course this can only depress further the present low prices. The new grower will survive because he is on virgin soil with high per acre production. The struggling grower who paid for the research will not be able to afford to replant his property. 
What guarantee has the grower that the same sort of thing will not happen under this new Dried Fruits Research Act, when there is no real protection written into the Act that directly concerns the grower? It must also be remembered that there comes a time when further increases in efficiency are just not possible due to limitations imposed by high soil salinity and other matters. At this point the dried fruits grower can add to the size of his property or get out. Yet he is forced to pay a levy which will help others produce more and thus put him out of business more quickly. Due to his precarious credit position he is often unable to purchase the property next door so that he can increase, his production and allow a dignified retreat for his neighbour. Both continue to eke out an existence on their increasingly uneconomicallysized properties. At the same time they see Government support and encouragement given to new outside finance to come on new land and plant 200 acres of apricots, 500 acres of citrus and nearly 1,000 acres of wine grapes. 
In the light of this it would be reasonable to expect other sections of these Bills to assist the grower or give him a further say in the way in which the research will be directed. But this is not the case and it appears, as we look further into the clauses of the Bill, that less and less consideration seems to be given to the knowledge, experience and wishes of the grower. To indicate this, let us examine section 11. (5.) of the Dried Fruits Research Trust Account Bill which says: 
The appointment of a nominated member is not invalidated and shall not be called in question by reason of a defect or irregularity in connexion with his nomination. 
Section 13. (1.0 says: 
A member may. with the approvalof the Minister, appoint a person to be his deputy. 
My point is that a member could be appointed to the Committee inspite of a defect or irregularity. Not only could he retain his seat in spite of this defect or irregularity; he could appoint as' his  deputy  someone else who was even less entitled to act on this Committee. If the member elected by defect or irregularity were the  chairman  of the Committee his  deputy  could then act as  chairman.  In my opinion this is far outside the wishes of the producer and shows a disregard for his welfare. These growers should have access to the best advice and advisers in the industry, people who should be able to make a decision for the grower and who are not influenced by any political leaning. These decisions should be made only after full consultation with the growers. The only conclusion that one can reach after a close study of these Bills is that they offer no signposts to the future but lay down plenty of controls and penalties for the grower who is asked to pay the costs of their implementation. 
If this Government really wanted to help the dried fruit growers it would have introduced long before now the new dried fruits stabilisation scheme which has been talked about for so long. Also it would ensure that information already gathered by Government departments, such as departments of agriculture and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, as mentioned by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  is available to all growers and not only those in areas that enjoy a rural broadcasting programme. During the last session both the honourable member for Mallee and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  made this point. They pointed out the great disadvantage that fruit growers in the Sunraysia area suffered because they did not have a rural broadcasting programme. It is not the intention of honourable members on this side of the House to oppose these Bills. However, we say that due regard should be given to some of these problems. The grower is entitled to be told that he is a part of any scheme claimed to have been introduced for his welfare. He is entitled to feel part of it. He can feel part of it only if he is given equal rights on the Committee and equal rights to say where research will take place. I hope honourable members opposite will give some consideration to these matters. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  when he spoke on the last amendment on which we have voted at first advanced one step to this amendment. Now he has retreated one step in order to speak about the amendment which has been defeated. Therefore, very briefly I want to do the same thing. But first of all, the Minister has said that the word of the inspector is to be taken as the basis of the charge, but he said that after that  all  the appropriate laws in Australia  are  open to the grower to show that the charge is not correct. The honourable  member  for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that for 5 years a charge could be hanging over the heads of the grower and his family who would be wondering whether he was to be charged. The honourable member for Dawson nods his head to indicate that he accepts what I have said. What does the Bill state? Clause 11 (1.) states: 
A person shall not - 
fail or neglect duly to furnish a return or information that he is required under the regulations to furnish; 
This is the basis of the whole legislation because it is imperative that the scheme must embrace all growers. If a number of growers were to remain outside the scheme, the scheme could fail and at least would be unfair. Clause fi (1 .) continues: 
furnish, in pursuance of the regulations,  a  return or information that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
The point I make is that the honourable member for Dawson, by nodding his head, indicated he agreed with me when I said that he said a grower's family could have a charge hanging over its head and it would be wondering whether the grower was to be charged. But if a prosecution is commenced towards the end of S years, the grower must have known all the time that he had committed an offence, otherwise the threat would not be hanging over his head. 
I turn now to what the honourable member for Riverina said about this clause creating a great injustice and about the fact that inspectors may not be infallible. Of course, they may not be infallible. Then he said the criminal law provides that a prosecution for an offence must be commenced within 6 months. I am not sure whether that is right, but I know that he has not referred to the taxation law. For what period after an offence has been discovered can a prosecution for an offence under the taxation law be commenced? A prosecution can be commenced during a period longer than 5 years. 
I know that. Of course, the honourable member for Riverina does not refer to the taxation law because it does not suit his argument. If we look at the report of the Commissioner of Taxation we find that certain people have been charged with offences which have been committed 10 years  previously*  These people did wrong by not providing the right information when they submitted their taxation returns. This Bill is on all fours with the taxation law. It is only asking people to do what is right. If prosecutions can be commenced under the taxation law all these years after offences have been committed, why does the Opposition say that the provision in this Bill, which says that a prosecution for an offence may be commenced within 5 years, is wrong and that the period should be only 1 year? If this were the case, a person who did not submit his taxation return correctly could not be charged after 1 year from the time of the commission of the offence. This is the whole story. It is perfectly inconsistent for the honourable member for Riverina to say that we should forget about a large sum of money which should properly be paid to the Commonwealth by way of taxation and try to make a political case out of the provision now before the chamber. This is completely wrong. It is preventing the real situation from being revealed and it is trying to build up a case on a very frail foundation. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General who will recall that in a statement regarding rural telephone lines made in this House some time ago he said that costs incurred by building telephone lines approved by the Postmaster-General's Department, and payment made to that Department for building such lines after 1st January 1969, would be reimbursed or refunded to subscribers, as the case may be. I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether payment of such moneys is proceeding and when it is anticipated that such reimbursements or refunds will be completed. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Grayndler. He said that certain members did not have an absolute majority and he included the member for the Mallee electorate who, he said, received 46 per cent of the votes. Let me say that in the 25 years I have been in this Parliament, in all the elections during that period only on one occasion have I been without an absolute majority and this was the occasion which the honourable member has quoted. That is scarcely fair, is it,  Mr Speaker? 
Noone in this House or anywhere in Australia would expect me to reply to the speech we have just heard but I desire to make one remark about it. The honourable member -for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  stated how prosperous this country is and claimed that it could pay higher pensions. Then he forecast doom for this country, saying that the country would be backrupt. The object of this Bill is to give legislative authority to the rise in pensions announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 15th March. The Labor Party knew that if the Bill was limited to the pension increase honourable members opposite would not be able to engage in a general debate on social services. Therefore, it has moved this amendment. Not one member of the Opposition in his wildest flights of fancy thought that the amendment would be accepted. 
My attitude, as can be seen in Hansard, has always been that the time to advocate a rise in pensions is during the debate on the Supply Bill. After all, if one is to advocate an increase in pensions one wants to do it as near as possible to the time when Cabinet is preparing the different items in its Budget. Pensioners come to Canberra on the day the Budget is announced. I have advised pensioners many times - and they have accepted my advice on one or two occasions - to come here 3 months before and not just on the day the Budget is announced, lt is too late then. Let me state one thing that has not been mentioned. The Liberal-Country Party Government brought down the legislation that gave us the. $2-for-Sl subsidy for homes for the aged. This has proved a very wonderful gesture and all Australians, despite anything that honourable members opposite might say, appreciate it. 
One of the main things ( wish to say is that there are 2 honourable members in this House who were at cross purposes tonight. I do not want to see the House adjourn until we have tried to put this matter right. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  was making a speech and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  misunderstood what he was saying. If the honourable member for Angas had been saying what the honourable member for Port Adelaide thought he was saying, the honourable member for Port Adelaide would have been quite right in interjecting as he did. But the honourable member for Angas was not talking about what the honourable member for Port Adelaide thought he was. He was saying that a woman under certain circumstances should not be expected to go out to work. The honourable member for Port Adelaide thought he was saying that the woman in question should go out to work. This is a very easy mistake to make. I compliment the honourable member for Angas on his speech, lt was a reasoned speech and he spoke of the things that matter as far as pensioners are concerned. I compliment also the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I do not often say that honourable members on the other side of the House make good speeches but these were really reasonable speeches. I appreciated them. I did appreciate a certain amount of pathos by the honourable member for Maribyrnong regarding people in bad circumstances. 
Surely the honourable member for Sydney has a little human kindness and knows that when I say these things I say them with all the sincerity I can muster. Constant interjections such as his do no good for this Parliament or anyone else. I understand, and it is generally accepted, that the Prime Minister more or less indicated that this pension increase would carry pensions along until Budget time. I do not think there has been a pension rise between Budgets for a long time; in fact, I cannot remember any but there may have been some. Therefore, if honourable members want to keep this subject active in the debate on the Supply Bill, as I do and as I have done in the past, the opportunity will arise before long because the Supply Bill has to be passed before the House rises for the winter adjournment. So far as this Bill is concerned, I believe that in all circumstances we should do everything possible for the pensioners. But I do not agree that we can take pensions out of the political arena. It is the Government's responsibility to collect the money with which to pay the pensions. If some private organisation or committee outside the political arena had to determine what rises would take place in pensions there would soon be chaotic financial conditions in Australia. This suggestion is not practical in any circumstances. 
The richer a country is the more it can help its pensioners. This is why I have said on occasions that I consider that priorities should be accepted. I consider that the first priority should be defence and the second priority should be irrigation. 1 would give irrigation that priority because so much more produce can be grown under irrigation and so much more food can be made available to help our own people and those not so fortunate in overseas countries. The more prosperous a country is the more it can do for people who require aid. I shall support this policy on every occasion. As for honourable members opposite calling out about the Government doing this, that or the other, people throughout Australia know that there is no foundation for many of the statements such as a number of those made by the honourable member for Sturt who is now sitting in his place and staring at me. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. Just now you rightly called me to order. I want to explain what my interjection was. The honourable member who was speaking at the time, and other honourable members, are always referring to the member for Mallee. 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister, in conjunction with the 
Minister for Trade and Industry, make investigations with a view to ascertaining whether the high Australian retail price of mutton and lamb can be justified when compared with the low prices being received by producers for mutton and lamb on the hoof? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science in his capacity as Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Does the Minister recall that when he visited Kerang in Victoria as Minister for National Development his attention was drawn to the deterioration of the ibis breeding rookeries? Does he know that now, with fewer ibis, district crops and pastures are menaced by a plague of crickets? Will the Minister arrange for the CSIRO to make investigations with a view to the preservation of wild bird life in irrigation areas along the Murray River? 
I think it is right that we should look at what has been happening in regard to this amendment. As the honourable member for 
Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, when the Bill was before this chamber previously it provided for  5  years and the Government carried it with the  5-year  provision. He has said that at this stage the Opposition wanted one year and he is maintaining that tonight. The point is that this is a Bill relating to the collection of levy under the Dried Fruits Levy Act  1971  and clause  11  is one of the most important clauses in the whole of the Bill for the simple reason that if some people do not furnish information as required  or  if the information given is false or misleading and the levy is not collected from them it may throw the whole scheme out. Clause  11  reads: (1.) A person shall not - 
fail or neglect duly to furnish  a  return or information that he is required under the regulations to furnish; or 
furnish, in pursuance of the regulations, a return or information that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: Two hundred dollars. 
What we are referring to now is sub-clause  (2.)  of that clause, which reads: 
A prosecution for an offence against this section may be commenced at any time within five years after the commission of the offence. 
That is the way it stands now. The amendment that has come from the Senate says that the period shall be  3  years. If the period is one year the offence may not be revealed in that period. In the previous debate I pointed out that in this case commission" means the act of doing or committing. So, in the event of an act of doing or committing, such as withholding information, the Opposition wants the period to be  12  months after that act. Then, once the  12  months has passed the man who has committed the offence in not providing the correct information goes scot free. 
The position is quite the opposite of what the honourable member for Dawson has said. He has said that we are trying to blackmail primary producers. We are trying to assist them in this matter. The man who puts in false information is subject to a fine of  $200  and, under the Bill as it stands, if the authorities find out about it within  5  years they can charge him. During the previous debate I referred to the income tax law. The honourable member for Dawson has referred to the criminal law. Under the income tax law the authorities can go back years and years and charge people. 
The honourable member for Dawson says that for 3 years or 5 years, whichever it is, this is hanging over the heads of people because they have not been charged. It is only hanging over the heads of those people who know that they have done wrong in not providing the information, not the man who has a clear conscience because he has put in the information that is desired or required under the Bill for the good of the dried fruits industry. It is not hanging over his head because he is not guilty of any offence. But if a man deliberately - it has to be deliberately because the Bill uses the words 'false or misleading in a material particular'- provides false or misleading information, it will be hanging over his head because he will say to himself: 'I committed this offence. I hope the authorities will not find out. If they do not find out in the first 12 months I am all right, I will not be charged.' That is if the contention of the Opposition is incorporated m the legislation. 
What the honourable member for Dawson baa said is the complete opposite of what I believe is correct. After all, we are trying to protect the dried fruits industry through this legislation which will give great help to this great industry in the field of research. So, I completely disregard what was said by the honourable member for Dawson in his speech just now. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has said that the Government will accept 3 years as an amendment. I do believe that 3 years is better than one year. 
I supported 5 years; of course I did. The Bill has gone to the Senate which has sent back an amendment providing for 3 years. If this Committee is in agreement with that, I am prepared to give it my support. But I am not prepared to support one year and the proposition that when that year is over the man who has not given the right information goes scot free and, perhaps, breaks up the whole of this research scheme which will mean so much to the dried fruit growers, most of whom reside in the electorate of Mallee. 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether any progress is being made in discussions on the building of the Dartmouth Dam. 
I desire to speak this morning on a subject about which I asked a question on 6th April of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  in his capacity as Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I asked him if he was aware that there was a serious plague of crickets around the Kerang district of Victoria and New South Wales. Since then grasshoppers have appeared in large numbers in southern Riverina. I pointed out that the ibis rookeries had deteriorated to some extent - not greatly - and that we wanted to preserve them and to foster the establishment of rookeries so that in the future we would have any amount of ibses to combat many pests, such as crickets and grasshoppers, and animal diseases such as fluke. Perhaps some honourable members do not know a great deal about fluke. It was a real menace in sheep, particularly in southern Victoria, but it has been controlled to a large extent, probably as a result of modern science. But also the ibises have played their part in controlling it. 
I want special attention to be paid to what I am submitting today by the Minister for Education and Science, who is in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and also by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who is  Chairman  of the River Murray Commission, because water plays a big part in this matter. Also I want to draw the matter to the attention of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation which was established by this Chamber some little time ago and of which the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  is the  Chairman.  By the way, there is an open invitation to all these people and organisations to visit the rookeries near Kerang and to see their great extent. Recently a professor from America - I cannot remember his name at the moment - visited the rookeries and said that they were the greatest rookeries of these birds in the whole world, and he had travelled most extensively. He named a little known country and said there were similar rookeries there, but not on the same scale and not nearly as pictureque 
Recently I made a very close survey of what is happening in the Kerang area, at the invitation of an enthusiast, a man who is dedicated to maintaining the ibis population. I refer to  Mr Des  Thomas of Kerang. Through his courtesy my wife and I inspected the rookeries at Kerang last  weekend.  Mr Thomas  made his boat available for the occasion. Although I previously had seen some of the rookeries from the land, I was amazed to see the extent of them from the water. In travelling on the road around the rookeries one gets no idea of what they are like. They should become a great tourist attraction, but I am not talking on that line today; I am talking about the preservation of ibises and the extension of their breeding, wherever possible, so that they can assist primary producers, because primary producers are harassed not only by what is happening in the economy, as has been stated in this House so often, but also by pests of all kinds which they are continually fighting. The chief natural enemy of these pests is the ibis. 
There is a lot of growth in these rookeries. One can go by boat through the different parts of the rookeries which are like small islands. I am told by  Mr Thomas  that when ibises start to breed they come in in large numbers and bounce up and down on the top of the growth and flatten it. Then they lay their eggs on the flattened part of the growth in a certain water area. At the weekend I saw ibises in all stages of development. Some had just come out of the egg, some were just moving about slowly, not away from the confines of the nest, and others were trying to fly. I saw some which were flying up into the trees and being fed by the mother birds. Of course, I saw thousands of fully grown birds. A strange thing which I found out from  Mr Thomas  - strange to me for I am not an expert on this matter, but he is; he has made a special study of it - is that ibises breed at almost any time of the year if the conditions are right. Of course, the conditions must be right. The main condition concerns the movement of water. Lack of water movement is unfavourable to ibis breeding, and if there is no water movement through the rookeries ibises may not breed for periods up to 5 years. 
This is a very serious matter, and I want all honourable members present to think about it and to try and do what they can to maintain the ibis population. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the letter in Hansard. 
It had been my intention, during the 20 minutes that are available to members during this debate, to discuss the Australian econ omy as it affects the primary producer. However as less than half that time is available to me before 4 p.m. I . shall discuss another subject now and when the debate is resumed will , refer to the Australian economy. So, without any notes or preparation, I shall speak on a subject which I had not intended to discuss - Anzac Day. Today is 23rd April and Anzac Day is 25th April. I often wonder whether many Australians nowadays regard Anzac Day as an occasion for a holiday rather than as a holiday for a great occasion. In Victoria there will not be a holiday next Monday, but in New South Wales and other places there will be a holiday. I do not believe that Anzac Day should be made the occasion for a holiday. If Anzac Day falls on a day other than a Sunday there is a holiday but it should be regarded as a holiday for a great occasion. 
Of course it was a sad occasion and that is why I say that we should remember on that day the thoughts of those who still have memories of persons who died in the First World War at Gallipoli and in other places and treat the day accordingly. I was extremely disappointed when the Returned Services League, to some extent, and the people of Australia decided that Anzac Day should be commemorated on the appropriate day, 25th April, and agreed to the holding of sports meetings in the afternoon of that day. Many people who go to the Anzac Day services and celebrations in the morning of Anzac Day constantly watch the time to ensure that they can get away to some sporting event. 
At a pleasant Sunday afternoon which was held in Wesley Church, Melbourne, Lord Casey said: 'Everything is changing'. We know things are changing, but are they changing for the better or worse? What is the yardstick by which we judge this? I would ask this: Are we taking into the new era, as it is called, those things that really matter to the older people in this community - justice, service, self-sacrifice and Christianity? People may say of me: 'You are an old man and the generation gap has caught up with you'. Nevertheless we should look around to see what is happening. Many young people are aware of these things, but a lot of people are not. I believe that we have to stand and show the flag wherever we can. We must build a strong nation. 
We often hear suggestions for world government, and people say that we should not try to lift our nation and be proud of it. I say that at public meetings and in Parliament we should state that we have a great nation here and we are proud of it. It seems to be suggested that we should not make exclamations of patriotism and loyalty; but after all, unless one's country is strong and rich one cannot do much for its inhabitants. Furthermore, one cannot do anything to help less fortunate nations, nations which many people in this country have great sympathy for and are anxious to give all the assistance they can. As far as the flag is concerned, it is hoisted at the schools every Monday morning. The children salute the flag and say a few words, but that is the end of it. When I made this point an another occasion a certain minister of religion said that this was no good at all, that the children just learned the words off by heart and it did not mean a thing. He said that they should stop this practice in the schools, and not raise the flag or say the prayer. I believe that we should have these things. We have a prayer said in this Parliament every sitting day, and people appreciate it. 
One can stagger around a. public place in this country drunk and no-one takes much notice; but if one stands while a troop of old soldiers march by, or if one salutes the flag - or even if one makes a speech like the one I am making now about this great nation - someone is bound to titter and say: 'You are showing off.' Nevertheless, one should do it just the same. One could never show a finer sen timent. Many young people now regard the men who fought at Gallipoli and even those who fought in the Second World War as just being very foolish to do these things. I have a copy of a Melbourne newspaper which was published just before the First World War. It was kept by my people. On the front page there is a great headline saying: 'On the verge of a great war. Only a miracle can avert it.' The spirit of the people in those days was different to that of the people of today. Everyone was trying to uphold democracy and give the people of this world a chance for a better life. We would not be in peaceful occupation of Australia, nor would I have the opportunity of speaking in this Parliament at the present time had it not been for the sacrifice of the men to whom we pay homage on Anzac Day. .Therefore I think it is appropriate to say this before I continue with my speech on the Appropriation Bills. 
That is just where you are wrong. I think I should say something about Anzac Day. When you are paying homage - and I hope you will be- to the men who died on Gallipoli and, of course, the men who served in all the fields of war - in the -air, on land and under the sea - I trust you will realise and try to make others realise that but for the sacrifices that were made by those Australians we would not be in peaceful occupancy of this country now. I cannot regard anybody who takes a different view to that as a, true Australian. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. House adjourned at 3.59 p.m. 
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS UPON NOTICE The following answers to questions upon notice were circulated: 
Papua and New Guinea: Education (Question No. 2401)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What number and percentage of (a) indigenous boys, (b) expatriate boys, (c) indigenous girls and (d) expatriate girls of school age attend (i) primary, (ii) secondary and (iii) technical schools in each district in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
What was the revenue in 1970 and what is expected to be the revenue in 1971 from (a) the school equipment fees introduced is 1967 and (b) the boarding school fees introduced in 1970. 
What number of (a) indigenous boys, (b) expatriate boys, (c) indigenous girls and (d) expatriate girls are assisted to attend (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in Australia. 
fs the (a) nature and Cb) cost of the assisance for education in Australia in 1971 the same as in 1970 (Hansard, 21 October 1970, page 2617). 
I will not detain the House long. I want to point out one or two things in relation to this legislation. The Pig Industry Research Bill defines 'research' as:  research' means scientific, technical or economic research in connexion with the pig industry, and includes - 
the training of persons for the purpose of any such research; 
the publication of reports, periodicals, books and papers in connexion with any such research; 
the dissemination of ' information and advice in connexion with scientific, technical or economic matters; and 
any matter incidental to a matter referred to in this definition; 
We cannot have available immediately all the people whom we want to take part in research but the Bill makes provision for this and I suggest that this is in the best interests of the pig industry. As other honourable members have said, there has been a great upsurge in pig breeding and pig fattening throughout the country especially in places such as the electorate I represent, where grains can be used for pig feed. This gives to the primary producer another avenue for the disposal of his products and by which to make his living. 
I support the Bill. Other honourable members have asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to make explanations and I am sure that he will do this satisfactorily. I believe that this legislation is in the best interests of the pig industry and of Australia generally, but what will happen in the future is something that research will dictate. We should leave this to those in authority. 

 - Mr Speaker, as is well known in this House, 1 do not read speeches. But I do read statements, so tonight, for the first few minutes of the short time available to me I will read a statement that I have made available in certain quarters. I want its contents to be known to this House. The statement has to do with the primary producer and the Australian economy. It reads as follows: I believe it is best to refer to primary industry and not to the primary producer for, if primary industry is prosperous, efficient and provident, primary producers will share that prosperity. The discovery of vast deposits of precious metals in Australia has given our economy great financial aid, but the proceeds from the sale of these minerals do not directly assist primary industry, either by increasing our sales of primary products or in bridging the gap between costs and returns.. 
Generally speaking, employers and employees in our country towns and provincial cities are dependent for their livelihood and progress on the product of the surrounding farmlands and the price one can get for it. Protective tariffs force our industry to buy in one of the world's highest price markets and to sell a substantial percentage of products at prices far below the Australian standard. High freight rates further protect secondary industry from overseas competition and, at the same time, freight rates act adversely against primary industry's exports. It must never be forgotten that the export of Australian primary products has been the main factor in building up and maintaining our overseas balances with which we purchase much raw material, not available in Australia, without which secondary industry could not function satisfactorily. 
Our metropolitan areas are experiencing a boom, perhaps greater than ever before, but conditions in primary industry are quite the reverse. The practice of protecting one section of the community is unsound and unjustifiable. It is essentially important that the family farm unit be sustained. Success is, generally speaking, relative to ownership interest in management. However, no country under a low tariff, inviting sharp competition and large importations from abroad, is likely to continue in prosperity, but would probably end in financial and industrial disaster, affecting adversely every interest, especially primary industry and the wage earner. 
I have therefore, in and out of Parliament, put the case and strongly advocated that, as an alternative to sharp tariff reduction, primary industry should receive Government price support, where practicable, for its exports on a basis that is at least as financially favourable as that which is enjoyed by secondary industry through tariff protection. There is an ever widening gap between the economies of secondary and primary industry, and this must be bridged if we are to continue in the satisfactory building of our nation. If primary industry could buy in Australia everything it needs for production and could sell all its produce in our high standard market, urgent assistance would be unnecessary. 
Many of us are loud in praise of our home market but it is not extensive enough. What is a market? A market is where one buys and where one sells. If the market to which we allude is the market where we buy practically all primary industry requirements, but which is able to absorb less than half of primary industry production, then it is less than half a market in primary industry transactions. 
We can give primary industry much financial aid. Immediate grants are necessary to meet soundly based commitments, but long term loans can be successful in fostering reconstruction only when primary industry is in receipt of its share of our national prosperity and not forced continually to face the menace of rising costs without being able to change the price tag as in secondary industry. Only by including primary industry in the buoyant economy that is apparent in our metropolitan areas can we be sure of adhering to democratic principles and promoting national development. 
That is the end of the statement I desired to read. But as I still have some time available I will deal with one or two other matters. In this House recently I spoke about fostering the ibis populations which are so important to the primary producer in combating certain pests, such as grasshoppers and crickets, animal diseases, such as fluke, and other things which harass the primary producer. When making the speech I referred to a recent visit to Kerang, the place I mentioned, by an American professor whose name 1 could not remember at the time. But thanks to the 'Northern Times', a newspaper that circulates within the electorate of Mallee, I am now able to give the professor's name. Also I shall quote from the newspaper one or two passages in regard to what the professor said about the great ibis rookeries in the Kerang district First of all, the man was Professor Parratt He described the rookeries as one of the greatest tourist attractions in the world. The newspaper headline states: ' "Greatest Bird Spectacular": US Professor At Ibis Rookery'. He went on to describe the rookery as 'the greatest bird spectacular I have ever seen'. The article in the newspaper continues: 
He said, 'I have seen quite a few bird spectacles in my life but this was the greatest I have ever seen and comparable only to the scarlet ibis in the Carani swamps of Trinidad. 
There are some areas comparable to a certain extent in the Florida Everglades, but this would be hard  to  beat anywhere and I intend  to  tell people about it back home.' 
He also said that viewing the rookery was the highlight of the trip that he has undertaken so far in Australia and that he intends to publicise the rookery in the places to which he travels. 
The speech I am making on the Appropriation Bill has been cut in two. I spoke for 8 minutes in the debate last Friday and I am continuing my speech tonight. I wanted to give the name of the professor, which I could not remember when I spoke on this matter previously, and also the county of Trinidad to which he referred. There is not the slightest doubt that what I have said about the Kerang rookery should be supported by many members of this Parliament for the simple reason that, according to this professor and to other, men, nowhere in the world will one find rookeries for the breeding of ibises as spectacular as those at Kerang. It would be a great tourist attraction but, as I said in my speech last Thursday, I am not dealing with tourism; I am dealing with farmers who require something definite with which to combat pests. Of course, ibises eat pests. When I put a question to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  in his capacity as Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, it was pointed out that there is a tremendous number of grasshoppers in certain areas and that no matter what number of ibises were put into these areas they could not eat all the grasshoppers. That is so, but ibises moving across the paddocks can eat grasshoppers before they get on the wing; when grasshopper are at a stage of development before they do the damage. Ibises eat grasshoppers and keep them down to a controllable level 
It will be remembered that towards the end of my speech on the Appropriation Bill last Friday I referred to Anzac Day. I was speaking on 23rd April and Anzac Day was 2 days later, on 25th April. I said certain things before Anzac Day, and now I want to say certain things after Anzac Day. I was very pleased to see the great roll up of ex-servicemen in Anzac Day marches throughout Australia. I am sorry that, chiefly because of inclement weather, marches were not held in certain areas. I believe also that we should not make a holiday out of Anzac Day. When Anzac Day falls on a week day, a holiday should be held. But how can anyone justify having a holiday on the Monday following Anzac Day when it falls on a Sunday? On Anzac Day we commemorate the deeds of those men who fought in war. Whether they were at Gallipoli, in Malaya, in France, in the desert or anywhere else, at no time did they have a holiday when on service. 
Let me say briefly on this subject that we are proud to recall that every time Australians served overseas in our fighting forces they were not on a quest in search of gain nor to invade and outrage weaker nationalities in lawless rage of conquest. We are thankful that their mission has always been as pure and as noble as any soldiers undertook to rid the world of would-be tyrants. Who were the tyrants? First, there was the Kaiser, then Hitler, and now we have such people as these around the world. They would like to take control of the world. These men seek world domination. Such men have been defeated by our fighting men in conjunction with servicemen from other free nations throughout the world. We do not glorify war on Anzac Day. We pay tribute to those men and women who served Australia so greatly. On the subject of peace, I point out that we in Australia want peace. We all know that. What is the alternative to going to war if the need arises? It has often been to fall at the feet of an invader, to be slaves of a foreign power. So, to those young men and others who talk about peace, I say that we are peaceful. But I ask: What happens when an enemy invades our country? It is on record th 2,1 one young man, who was a conscientious objector, I understand, said that if a foreign foe invaded this country and one of its troops was about to molest his mother he would take no action to combat that attack. These are the kinds of things that make me feel that we need more and more the ideas of patriotism. 'Patriotism' is defined in the dictionary as being  the  fervent love of one's country'. Anarchy flees before patriotism. Therefore, we must be proud of our great nation and of our servicemen and servicewomen who have gone overseas 'on active service' during periods of war. This is the way their action was described. We have often heard of our servicemen and women being 'on active service'. It has become urgently necessary that Australians today should be on active service always in this country. They must be on active service to build the nation, to build it in its conduct and to build it in stability for future generations. 
 I would hate to disappoint the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  by not speaking in this debate because he said I was bound to do so. In fact, I thought he was going to make my speech for me. I have made this speech before and the honourable member for Dawson repeated what he said in his speech when the Dried Fruits Research Bill was before this House. But the very strange thing that the honourable member does is to give illustrations from other Bills. He even speaks about murder. The real point is found in the Bill itself Clause 14 reads:  (1.) A person shall not - 
fail or neglect duly to furnish a return or information that he 'is required under the regulations to furnish; or 
furnish, in pursuance of the regulations, - a return or information that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
If he does either of these things he is liable to a penalty of $200. What is pointed out is that a prosecution for an offence against that section may be commenced at any time within 5 years of the commission of the offence. That clause relates to when the offence took place. 
Some interjections are asking me why I supported the 5year period. Of course I supported the similar clause in the Dried Fruits Research Bill when it was before the House. After passing through all stages in this House that Bill then went to the Senate. When the Bill was returned from the Senate the period had been amended to 3 years. I thought 3 years better than the 1year period which was proposed by the Opposition. I supported the Bill as amended and it passed through all its remaining stages. I want to refer to the illustrations given . by the honourable member for Dawson. He referred to the Crimes Act and the crime of murder, which has nothing to do with the clause under discussion. I have already read out the clause and I will not repeat it. It refers to certain returns and the fact that they must not be false or misleading, something which has nothing to do with the Crimes Act. 
I gave an illustration concerning the income tax legislation under which inspectors can go back for 10 years or more, I think, finding out if people have put in false returns or if one had not put in a return for all those years while in receipt of an income. But the whole point is that they can go back, and we are saying that in similar circumstances if false returns are put in or no returns are put in by a pig producer that action ought to be taken. But what similarity is there between that point and the illustration given by the honourable member for Dawson? There is none at all. He even spoke of murder and the Crimes Act. But there is a similarity between what I am putting forward regarding the income tax legislation and what ls contained in this Bill. . It is practically the same. The Bill legislates against false returns, etc., so therefore I am supporting the amendment proposed by the Minister tonight. 
First of all, I want to say that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  told me that he intended to speak tonight in the adjournment debate and that he would refer to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I said te the honourable member for Dawson at the time that the honourable member for Kennedy had been given leave of absence from 5 p.m. today in order to attend a conference of the Australian Country Party in Queensland and that I thought if would be better if the honourable member for Dawson expressed his views when the honourable member for Kennedy was here in the Parliament. When the honourable member for Dawson commenced to speak tonight I interjected and said: 'Leave it until he comes back'. That will be in Hansard. 1 think that would be the best thing to do because a few days would not make much difference. I have always been against personal attacks being made by honourable members from either side of the House. I have never made a personal attack during the time I have been in this Parliament. 
Not personally. I want to say one or two definite things. I am not here to protect the honourable member for Kennedy; I am here to see that there is fair play. As Whip of the Parliamentary Country Party, I say that the honourable member for Kennedy made an explanation about the matter the honourable member for Dawson has raised during the debate on the Appropriation Bill and, to be quite fair to the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for Kennedy also made an attack on the honourable member for Dawson. The honourable member for Dawson, to some extent, has replied to that attack tonight. The whole point is that the honourable member for Kennedy said that what the newspaper said or what the honourable member for Dawson said was incorrect; that he had been misrepresented. Honourable members opposite should not get flustered about this. This happens all the time. 
It seems strange to me that the newspaper said and the honourable member for Dawson also said that the honourable member for Kennedy made this statement at a meeting of the Young Country Party at a place called Yeppoon. I have been to many meetings of the Young Country Party and I have never seen the Press at any of those meetings. From where did the Press get this information? Did someone supply it to the Press? Of course, the statement may be true or it may be not. In any case, I think that when the honourable member for Kennedy returns to this Parliament he will speak and the honourable member for Dawson will speak, and they will carry on this feud. The honourable member for Dawon said that the honourable member for Kennedy had his speech typed out and it was handed to someone. 
I did not see the speech, so I do not know anything about that. All I say is that the honourable member for Kennedy is absent at the present time, but that when he returns, if the honourable member for Dawson wants to continue the feud he may do so. But I suggest to both the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Kennedy, with the very best intent, that they should drop the matter now because, after all, it will not do either of them any good. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.59 sum. (Thursday). 
I would like to mention one or two points. I never cease to wonder why it is that when members of the Opposition - and on occasions members on this side of the House also - make speeches they have to insult someone. I refer tonight to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who mentioned what seemed to me to be fictitious points. I was sitting here and smiling because some of the things that he was saying were definitely incorrect when he turned round and blamed what he called the 'Country Party jackals'. This kind of remark does not do 'him any credit whatsoever. This man who lives in a city electorate and represents people from the city has no idea of the position in the better Australia outside the metropolitan area. Another of his remarks to which I object was the suggestion that countries around the world had better houses and conditions than Australia. What kind of Australian is this man to say these things when men who travel with parliamentary delegations to countries overseas come back here, no matter from what side of the House they are, and say that this is the best country in the world? They say that Australia is a great country. It does not do for any honourable member to put up the suggestion in this House that regarding housing Australia is one of the worst countries in the world. When an honourable member does this someone is bound to contradict him and I am the one who is doing it tonight. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I want to take my time during the Committee stage of this Bill to say briefly that I am amazed at a statement which the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  made against me. On three occasions he referred to what the  Deputy  Whip of the Government parties had said. As a matter of fact, I have not spoken today. 
It does not matter what the honourable member thinks - I am the  Deputy  Whip of the Government parties. The honourable member for Wills knows this. Generally speaking he is only trying to make a play on things. I notice that the honourable member for Wills is rising now in order to get the call. That is the best thing he can do because if he puts right what he has said I will be happy. 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills) - I wish to make a personal explanation. I want to make it clear that I in no way referred to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I realise that humble as the position of  Deputy  Whip of the Liberal Party is - that is the person to whom I was referring - it is much more exalted than the position to which the honourable member for Mallee is entitled. 
I have been amazed by the  2  speeches which I have just heard. I am sure that no-one would doubt, if he looked at this in a reasonable way, that this matter has been brought up just to try to get some advantage over the Australian Country Party. I want to refer to one or two things that have been said. Firstly, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that the Australian Labor Party had more rural seats than did the Country Party. That statement is just a trick, nothing else. It is a trick for the simple reason that although members of the Labor Party represent a certain amount of primary industry areas, the vote they get comes from a densely populated area within the electorates. Take the case of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  who I notice is in the House. What chance would he have of winning the seat of Bendigo if the city of Bendigo was not part of the electorate? 
Well, my majority is so much more than the honourable member's that he should not draw attention to that. What chance would he have? I suppose the honourable member would say: I represent a rural electorate'. However, the point is that he cannot get votes from many primary producers. This is the case in other areas where Labor says that it represents so many primary producers. However, the vote that Labor candidates obtain comes from the densely populated areas that are contained within the electorates. The moment they go out into the country their vote dissolves like the mist in the morning. 
I am making a point in reply to what was said by the honourable member for Dawson that Labor members represent more primary industry areas than do Country Party members. The honourable member for Dawson also asked why members of the Country Party did not get up as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  did and say their piece. The honourable member for Moreton is entitled to speak. But what about the Australian Labor Party? I have been here for 25 years. In that time, how many members of the Labor Party have got up and said their piece? I have heard about 3 of them speak out but they disappeared from here at the next election because they could not get the endorsement of their Party. One man to whom I refer is Cyril Chambers who was the Minister for the Army. He was a good Minister and an excellent man. He spoke out and that was the end of him politically. The parties on this side of the House are such that a member can get up and speak as the honourable member for Moreton did and still remain in his Party. If an honourable member opposite gets up and speaks against or about the Labor Party machine he knows that he will not be endorsed at the next election. Honourable members opposite are just like mice; they follow along and try to escape traps. 
The honourable member for Dawson said that this would test the Country Party. Surely he knows that the Country Party has stood the test of time. The Country Party has been established for 40 or 50 years and it still represents the major part of primary industry after all those years. The honourable member also asked why all members of the Country Party did not get up. He said that every man in this House is interested in this vital legislation. All right, so they are. Members of the Country Party are intensely interested. They represent areas that are suffering from world conditioned prices for certain primary products. We know that there has been  a  drought in Queensland for many years. On the other hand, the Labor Party represents chiefly secondary industry. There are not 6 members of the Labor Party who are capable of speaking on this Bill. The honourable member for Dawson has said that all members should have an opportunity to speak and that they should be able to take their full time. The 125 members? 
Oh no, you did not. 
The honourable member said that all members should be able to speak on this Bill. The rural areas are calling out for assistance. As the Whip of the Australian Country Party I can say that we have had meeting after meeting to try to bring forward something that will be in the best interests of the country people. 
I ask the honourable member to withdraw that. I do not want to be called a liar.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will you ask the honourable member to withdraw that? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett) Order! If the honourable member did say that I will ask him to withdraw it. 
Over the last 5 or 6 minutes I have not had a chance to direct my remarks to anyone. 
Referring to what was said recently, it is on record that I objected to something that was said by the honourable member for Sturt and he very rightly apologised. 
All right, I accept what the honourable member has said. He withdrew the remark. This reminds me of something that I read about during the First World War, of the Kaiser and the scrap of paper. When he did not carry on with what he said he would do, the Kaiser is alleged to have said: 'one can always apologise'. The point is that apparently in this House a member can say what he likes as long as he apologises. 
I am a great cooperator,  Sir, and  I will co-operate with you. There has been much laughter and levity during the discussion of this important motion but it is obviously Labor policy to prevent me from speaking and honourable members opposite have been fairly successful as I have only 2J minutes remaining in which to debate the motion. Members of the Country Party have been meeting day after day trying to find means of assisting primary industry. I say 'primary industry' deliberately, as distinct from primary producers', because if primary industry is prosperous the provident and efficient primary producers share in that prosperity. The motion, if successful, would make it possible for this debate to continue almost indefinitely but members of the Country Party are anxious for aid to be provided to primary industry as soon as possible. The number of speakers in the debate on rural reconstruction may be limited to 12. Surely the chosen speakers from the Opposition and the Government Parties can put all the salient points concerning this Bill because during the last quarter of a century that number of speakers has been able to put all the salient factors about any important Bill. 
What a ridiculous remark it was that the Country Party is not interested in primary industry. Honourable members can take it as they like, but those men who have engaged in primary industry were, like myself, born in the country and not in the city. The Country Party represents primary producers. Rural reconstruction is not a means of securing votes for the Country Party; it is a matter directed towards the survival of primary industry from which vital income is gained. Wool growing and wheat growing are vital to Australia. The main factors in our national wealth are tied up in primary production. Furthermore, the primary producer, by exporting his produce, builds up Australia's overseas balances which make it possible for secondary industry to secure from overseas raw materials which cannot be obtained in Australia. This enables secondary industry to function satisfactorily and to progress. No-one can say that members of the Country Party are not worried about the position of primary industry. We are seeking every possible way, through meetings day and night, to bringing forward measures that will give relief, if relief is possible, through legislation. 
The chosen speakers from all parties should be able to explain the legislation which we will be discussing soon, and they will explain it. Country Party members will be speaking as will be members of the Liberal Party and if there are 3 or 4 members of the Opposition who know anything about primary industry, let them speak too. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said: 'I have never claimed to know much about primary industry'. Of course, I do not think any honourable members opposite have, but the point is that our specialty as members of the Country Party is that we represent people in country towns - employers and employees - who know that their living depends on the products of surrounding farmlands and the prices that can be obtained for those products. The members of my Party are flat out doing everything they can for the greatest force in Australia, namely, primary industry which has built up this nation, not only the rural part of it but also the cities which depend largely on primary industry for future stability. 

 Mr BARNARD (Bass)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  said that during the course of my remarks I made the statement that I did not claim to have any knowledge of rural matters. 
My question to the Minister for National Development relates to the River Murray salinity report. Will the Minister state what procedure is being taken to have the recommendations contained in the report implemented? As much of the work entailed will be in the Mallee electorate will the Minister visit that area in order to explain the project and hear at first hand suggestions from those most concerned? 
by leave - I desire to make a brief statement explaining to this House why, as a member of the Committee of Privileges, I abstained from voting on this occasion. I was assured by members of the Privileges Committee that I would be given an opportunity to make this explanation. I did not cast a vote on the question now before the House for the reason that I desired to draw the attention of this House to the need for a guide to action in such cases. Two very prominent legal men were invited to advise the Committee on the evidence before it which we were considering, but they expressed completely opposite opinions. One said it was a civil offence and the other that it was a criminal offence. Had it been the former the case must have been dismissed, but had it been the latter, the charge would have stood. Without legal training one has to depend largely on the advice of experts, but as one opinion offset the other I decided that it was not in the best interests of justice that I vote on this subject. In the 3 minutes that I have said I will take - and I am watching the clock  -  I say that it is my opinion that this House should lay down rules to follow in such cases. Section 49 of the Constitution states: 
The powers, privileges and immunities of the Senate and of the House of Representatives and of the members of Committees of each House shall be such as are declared by the Parliament, and until declared shall be those of the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom and of its members and Committees at the establishment of the Commonwealth. 
Since Federation there have been changes in the rules on privilege in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom but still we have to go back to many of the rules it laid down at the time of the Commonwealth Federation. It is well established,  of  course, that immunity from arrest arises only in relation to civil causes and not in relation to criminal causes. 
I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable N. H. Bowen, on his speech on this subject and I am hoping - I believe he has already set the necessary machinery in motion - that the whole question shall be fully investigated. This will, of course, have no bearing whatever on this case, but in future when members of the Privileges Committee have to make a decision they will have some basis in law on which to work. 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the States Grants (Reconstruction) Act encompass the Australian dried vine fruits industry? I ask this question having been informed that a Victorian grower of dried vine fruit who applied for assistance to the appropriate State Minister was refused, the reason given being that the Act was based on problems within the sheep and wheat industries. 
I oppose this- 
I oppose this amendment for the simple reason- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to oppose this amendment more than for anything else for the last few words in it. I will not read the whole amendment because 1 do not want to delay the House for very long, but the amendment reads in part:  on each Thursday at halfpast ten o'clock a.m rising at 6 o'clock p.m. on each Thursday. 
This is the very thing that we are fighting against. As the  Deputy  Government Whip 1 want to say very definitely that we have had difficulty keeping members here when they thought that we would rise at 4 p.m. So there is not the slightest doubt that we will be asked to allow honourable members to get away at 2 or 3 o'clock if the House is to rise at 6 o'clock on Thursdays. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said, it would be almost impossible to hold a quorum. 
 I will say there is too much noise! 
When all this noise and argument is finished perhaps 1 can proceed. I just want to take the shortest possible time so as not to delay the House. I shall repeat what I said because probably it was not heard. The honourable member for Sturt was interjecting all the time asking why I am in a certain position as  Deputy  Government Whip. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  if there are a lot of interjections and much talk such as is taking place at the moment I say to honourable members opposite that there is plenty of time and they will not hurry me. I will speak when I get a hearing but if I do not get a hearing these proceedings will go on indefinitely. 
Well,  Sir, I  ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Services, concerns the establishment of a regional office of the Department of Social Services at Swan Hill in Victoria. On a number of occasions I have explained to the Minister that such an office in the city of Swan Hill would serve thousands of people resident in Victoria and New South 
Wales, and that at present the nearest regional offices of the Department of Social Services are at Bendigo and Mildura, respectively approximately  120  and 150 miles distant. Will the Minister state whether it is his intention to establish such an office at Swan Hill in the near future? 
Honourable members will recall that on Tuesday last when I was speaking on this matter I sought leave to continue my remarks at a later stage following a series of interjections and a good deal of talk in the chamber. Leave was granted and the sitting was suspended prior to the evening resumption. First of all I wish to explain certain things. It is necessary for me to do this to be able to put my case in the right  light as far as the amendment by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  is concerned. The Standing Orders Committee has recommended in relation to the days and hours of sitting: 
That unless otherwise ordered the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday and Wednesday at half-past two o'clock p.m., and on each Thursday at half-past ten o'clock a.m. 
To this, the honourable member for Banks has moved inter alia: 
Unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at half-past ten o'clock a.m. and Wednesday at halfpast two o'clock p.m., and on each Thursday at half-past ten o'clock a.m. rising at 6 o'clock p.m. on each Thursday. 
After moving this amendment, the honourable member for Banks said: 
This would enable honourable members who can go home on Thursday night to make their arrangements accordingly. 
This is the very thing to which I object: I oppose the amendment and I wish to give the reasons why I oppose it. It is recognised that, if it is known that the House proposed to rise at 6 p.m., honourable members will want to leave the House at 2 p.m.. 3 p.m. or at other times before 6 p.m. because they desire to get home. The honourable member for Banks has interjected that he stays here all the time. He may stay or he may not stay. I do not know. I am not making an attack on him personally. I am talking of what happens. No honourable member can deny - the Party Whips, of which I am one will know this - that many members who live in Sydney and Melbourne are asking for leave to get on an early plane home. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said some very nice words which I appreciated. He said he was very sympathetic with me in that I may have a job to keep Govermment members in the House all the time. If any honourable member should know about this, it should be the honourable member for Grayndler for the simple reason that be was Whip when the Labor Party was in government. We also sat on Fridays on different occasions when the Labor Party was in government. What happened? On a number of occasions as early as 3 o'clock the Labor government, realising that there was not a quorum decided to lift the House. This is a wellknown fact and honourable members can look in Hansard to prove it. Therefore, I believe that the House should sit right through until 10.30 p.m. or 11 p.m., or whatever time is set on a Thursday night. Speaking personally, if the House rose at 6 p.m. I would certainly stay here until that time - 1 have never left before then - and if  I  could get to Melbourne, perhaps I could stay there and continue home the 165 miles by car the next day. I believe that this amendment is really only encouraging honourable members to ask for leave to get away earlier than the time the House will rise. Can the honourable member for Banks say that because he stays until the House rises he is confident that other honourable members will do this? I am not, and I have proof of what has happened in the past. Even during the last few weeks and during the debate on the Supply Bill, I have proof that honourable members just will not stay here. They want to get away. I am very happy that we are returning to the old system of sitting on 3 days for 3 weeks and then having a week off. I say this for the simple reason that when the House met, under the present system, on the Tuesday of the first week I had to leave home on the Sunday. I would be here on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday and Friday and then return up country again only to leave home again on the Sunday because the House would be meeting on the Monday. Therefore I was travelling on 12 days out of the 14. Honourable members have a much better chance of conducting their business in their electorates and also in this House under the old method. When (he Standing Orders Committee was discussing this matter 1 said that if it wanted my opinion on the different proposals it should look at Hansard to see how I voted when the matter was before the House. Honourable members were saying that they would have a great opportunity to stay in Canberra over the weekend, to attend committee meetings and to carry out work they could not do at other times. But how many honourable members stayed over the week end? Some honourable members told the House at that time that they would not stay here. Only one or two stayed and the whole thing was just a farce. I appreciate very much that this motion will be carried and that we will return to the cycle of 3- weeks sitting and 1-week up. I believe it is in the best interests of all honourable members. Of course, the system under which the Parliament is operating now suits those honourable members who represent city electorates in Melbourne, Sydney and some in Brisbane but it does not suit honourable members who should receive consideration, those who have to come from the far flung places of this Commonwealth to this House. It does not suit them, and it is not in the best interests of sane government in Australia. Therefore, I support the motion that standing order 40 be carried and hope that the amendment will be defeated. I do not think it is in the best interests of the country. I have some admiration, shall 1 say, for the honourable member for Banks for bringing forward an amendment which he thinks is a good one but I do not think it is good and naturally I will vote against it. 
As I stated when I asked my question previously, I represent the electorate of Mallee. 
My question to the Prime Minister is prompted by the fact that I represent the Mallee electorate in Victoria wherein are situated some of Victoria's main tourist centres, all of which are adjacent to the States of South Australia and New South Wales. I refer to the proposed tax on accommodation in hotels and motels in Victoria and ask the Prime Minister whether he will confer with the Premier of Victoria who has recognised the problem, and point out to him that the buffer area suggested as a means of overcoming the problem will be completely ineffective, as there must be a boundary to this buffer area and those in the accommodation business outside this area will suffer from any legislation as proposed by the Victorian Government. 
It is not my desire tonight to go into fine detail regarding the Post and Telegraph Bill nor is it my desire to condemn the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I want to take a general view of the situation. First of all, I want to know why the charges have been increased or why the Government considers they should be increased. So I turn to the second reading speech of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in which he makes this explanation: 
The problems which confront the Post Office in 1971-72 and have caused the Government to increase certain postal and telecommunication charges could be summarised as: Abnormal increases in labour and other costs; serious deterioration in financial prospects; the level of demand for services and the excessive pressures this places on available resources. 
That is what the Postmaster-General said in his second reading speech. Of course, I believe this is correct. If the whole of Australia could be looked at as one big metropolitan area, that is if it were getting all the services and amenities that the metropolitan areas enjoy, there would be no argument from either side. Everybody would be happy. Wages have gone up for people in the metropolitan areas. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  - I have only to look at one or two notes to see what he did say: I am not reading my speech as is the general practice in this House - spoke of the unit fee call. He said: You can go right out to Dandenong and far afield round the suburbs and you have only the initial call fee, the lowest possible telephone cai) fee available in Australia, to pay'. He was absolutely correct because that is what is happening. If the whole of Australia was just one big metropolitan area everybody would be perfectly happy, because the wage increases would have been distributed and the calls would cost very little in comparison with what they now cost in country areas. 
Underlying all the speeches made by honourable members opposite has been - I will not say hatred, because I do not think it is personal - an envious view of the Country Party members and of the case they have presented for the areas they represent, lt must be always remembered that no Country Party member represents a city constituency. Every Country Party member in Australia, whether in a State parliament or the Federal Parliament, represents a part of Australia, which I call the better part of Australia, outside our metropolitan areas. The Country Party is constantly endeavouring to stop the drift to the city and is seeking to build up conditions that will be conducive to holding people in country areas. This is not a parochial view; it is a national view. Surely to goodness honourable members opposite can see what is happening with people continually drifting to the city. The process snowballs. A census is held and it is found that there are more people in the metropolitan areas. Then the next thing is a redistribution of seats and we have more and smaller city seats and larger country seats, such as the Mallee electorate which in the last redistribution, although it was by far the largest electorate in Victoria by many thousands of square miles, was given 2 more subdivisions. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. Does he recall that last night  in  the House I advocated that all rural telephone subscribers be granted the privilege of local call charge, where at present it does not apply, to their nearest centre where medical and general facilities are available abd that it be irrespective of zone boundaries? Does he know that this would give them only a fraction of the privilege now enjoyed by city subscribers in regard to telephonic communication? Will he give this suggestion consideration? 
I consider it was proper for the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to draw to the attention of the House the fact that locusts or grasshoppers are breeding prolifically in his electorate. As the member representing a very large area of country just over the river from the Riverina electorate I am greatly concerned about the locusts breeding in his area. I have been reading about what has been happening there in the last month. I read that the locusts were breeding there and probably would take wing in a month or two. Once they take to the wing they know no boundaries in electorates, even though the boundary between the Riverina and Mallee electorates is our greatest waterway, the River Murray. I compliment the honourable member on bringing this matter up in the House tonight and I offer him every support possible. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  replied to the honourable member for Riverina who suggested that aircraft of the Army or the Royal Australian Air Force may be necessary to spread insecticides. This may become necessary. On quite a few occasions the RAAF has taken a great part in rainmaking attempts in Victoria and other States of Australia. If these aircraft can be used in attempts to produce rain in order to make the grass and the crops grow I think it is just as important that they be called in again to save the grass and crops from locusts. On the Mallee side of the river and in parts of Riverina to a lesser extent the great dried fruits industry flourishes. Once the locusts start moving they eat everything that is green and a lot of things that are not green. They will devour everything in their path and devastate the whole countryside. Anyone who has not seen them in full flight does not realise that. I have seen them in full flight in the western district, even right into the electorate of Corangamite. I have seen a great flight of them run into a plantation of trees. They whirled round and round. One had a job to get through them in a motor car. 
Honourable members must realise what a gigantic menace the locusts are to primary industry. At the present time, primary industry does not want any setbacks, lt needs all the help possible. I support the proposition that every help possible should be given to prevent the locusts getting on the wing. As I have already mentioned, rain making planes have been made available chiefly by State governments. Perhaps the first place to try to get help would be from the New South Wales and Victorian Governments if the locusts got on the wing. Everything possible should be done. The Minister for the Army said that he did not want red tape to come into it. I can assure him that I do not want red tape to come into it. 
The aim is to kill the locusts in their breeding grounds in the Riverina electorate. We do not want them in Mallee or in any other part of Victoria. When I refer to the breeding grounds in the Riverina I do not mean to imply that that is just where locusts breed and nothing else happens. 1 know that it is a very prolific area. Not only would the places that the locusts fly to suffer but the whole of the Riverina would probably be under great stress if the locusts started moving. The honourable member for Riverina stated how many millions there are to the acre. I do not think for one moment that he was exaggerating. This is a real menace. As he is on the spot in the electorate, I hope that he will keep in close touch with the problem and bring it up in the House again when necessary at which time he will be absolutely sure of getting my full support- 
The debate on the 1971-72 Budget is quickly coming to an end. I understand that I am the second last  speaker  and that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  will follow me. At the outset, I should like to say that I will not go into any fine detail regarding this Budget. Honourable members who have spoken have given many figures and statistics concerning the Budget but no honourable member has been able to follow them or vouch for their authority. I take this opportunity to deal with things that matter to the Australian nation in a wide field and, as I always do, I want to state the priorities that I support. They have always been the same. 
It may be tedious repetition but I should like to tell honourable members that my No. 1 priority is loyalty and the defence of this country; my No. 2 priority is primary industry, coupled with water conservation. Someone might say: 'What about pensions, schools, etc.?' It is from primary industry that money flows and makes possible education, hospitalisation and so many other things of importance in this country. Of course, without defence we would be hopeless. Without loyalty we would not care whether we bad defence. 
Although many minerals have been discovered in Australia, primary industry remains Australia's stable industry. The money earned by the export of our primary products pays for so many of the raw materials purchased overseas for use in Australia by our secondary industries. 
I have listened to budget debates for the last 25 years and the debate on this occasion and the way this Budget has been received by the people have been the quietest in all that time. Generally speaking, members of the Opposition quote from newspapers to support their arguments. Opposition members are ever ready to tell us what the newspapers have to say about the Budget. However, I have noticed that on this occasion few honourable members have referred to newspapers for the very simple reason that the newspaper reports have not been favourable to the case the Opposition desires to submit. I know that many honourable members have travelled overseas; probably I am the only one of the long serving members of this Parliament who has not been on one of these trips associated with one of the parliamentary Associations. When they come back to this country invariably they say This is the best country in the world; we are so pleased to be home again'. They have travelled and looked into the economies and the general conditions of other countries and they come back here - Opposition members, Government supporters and tourists from all over Australia - and say 'This is the finest country in the world'. I do not think that they would say otherwise now, but what Opposition members try to do is to pick out some little advantage that countries such as Sweden or Switzerland may have and they try to put this against the whole of the Australian economy in order to paint this country as being only second class. This was done recently by one honourable member in regard to Australian housing. I think that this is completely wrong. 
Australia needs patriotism; anarchy flees before patriotism. Therefore, in the time that I have at my disposal, I should like to speak about patriotism and one or two other matters. Recently I heard a man who was once the Leader of the Opposition say T stand for Fortress Australia'. His policy was not to send troops overseas but to wait and to fight invaders in this country. He did not say that but this is what Fortress Australia means. This is one of the greatest fallacies ever conceived by any nation. 
I will tell the honourable member. What is the history of Vietnam? The Communists were moving down through South East Asia and no-one was doing anything about it. Everybody was blaming everybody else and saying that something should be done to stop them. Then, America drew a line and said: 'So far and no further'. What happened after that? The first thing that happened was that Indonesia, which is so close to Australia, took courage and threw out the Communists. This is one of the greatest things that has recently happened for this country. Of course, America still has troops in Vietnam and it is building up the local troops so that they can carry on after the Australian and American troops leave that country. 
I should like to read to honourable members an article which I happened to pick up just by chance. It appeared in the Canberra Times' on 26th April, the day after Anzac Day. 
Anzac Day 1971. The article is headed The Price of Freedom' and it appeals tremendously to me. It reads: 
The Reverend J. R. Payne said at the dawn service at the War Memorial yesterday that many young people should remember that their freedom to express their opinions had been bought with the lives of those being remembered on Anzac Day. 
Honourable members endeavour to laugh that off. The article continues: 

 Mr Payne, Commonwealth Secretary of the British and Foreign Bible Society, went on: Whether you are critical of war, whether you are an out-and-out pacificist or not, I believe there is no question of the debt we owe these people today. There are far too many people today who keep prattling about their rights who should be more concerned with living up to their own duties and responsibilities.'  Mr Payne  said he had found no serviceman who loved war for itself but they were determined to defend their country to the best of their ability. 
He said finally that that did not mean waiting until the enemy had stormed the shores of our land; it meant meeting him wherever it was possible to engage him in combat. I support those remarks to the hilt. Whenever our men have gone overseas they have never gone on a quest in search of gain. They have always gone to fight against people who were not upholding the laws of democracy and freedom. Thank God that that has been their mission every time they have gone overseas and we should be proud of them. Young people in this country today do not realise the debt they owe to the men who gave us the freedom to be in this Parliament today, talking as I am doing and as other honourable members have done on matters concerning this Budget and other subjects which are of vital importance to Australia. 
I have told the following story before but I should like to tell it again. There was a young man I knew in Melbourne during the Second World War who said to me just after I had enlisted to go away T am not going to the war'. I said 'If you do not do something and give a bit of assistance and Hitler gets over here with his men, you will be in a chain gang down near the wharf or somewhere'. He just laughed and said Oh, the unions would not stand for that'. This is the kind of thinking that one gets from the Australian Labor Party. What would happen to the unions if an enemy did come here? We do not want war but what is the alternative to war? The alternative is to fall at the feet of an invader, slaves to a foreign power. People say'This could not happen here'. This has been said down through history and it has been proved a fallacy. I could quote many such things that have been said. Socrates was referred to today by an honourable member and I now want to refer to Lord Byron. Great nations of the world fell not because of bad times but because they paid too much heed to luxury. They forgot those who upheld and built a nation. They became unprepared and could not fight. The enemy came in and took them over very easily. The great Roman Empire was one of them and the great Grecian Empire was another. Lord Byron said of Greece: 
A king sate on the rocky brow which looks o'er sea-born Salamis; 
And ships, by thousands, lay below, and men in nations; - all were his! 
He counted them at break of day - And when the sun set where were they? 
The Persians came in from the hills unexpectedly. They fought a battle at Thermopylae and swept the Greeks into the sea. The Greeks never rose again. Lord Byron said in his poem "The Isles of Greece': 
Eternal summer gilds them yet, 
But all, except their sun, is set. 
Honourable members should not forget that this can happen here. We must be vigilant. Honourable members are laughing at what I am saying and not caring about what has happened. Let me go on further and refer to the Napoleonic Wars. Napoleon was a prisoner on the Isle of Elba. They said: The time has come when we must weld our swords into ploughshares and our spears into pruning hooks. But within a week Napoleon had escaped from Elba and the whole of Europe was aflame. Honourable members will know the story about Neville Chamberlain who said, after seeing Hitler: "This means peace in our time'. Labor members say that this cannot happen here. Of course it can happen here. We must watch very closely to see that it does not happen. 
What we need in this country is more loyalty. We want people to be well up in the knowledge of what can happen. Let me quote an article from the Melbourne Sun' which is headed: 'Change Flag Ceremony - say Parents'. The article reads as follows: 
Toorak Central State School committee wants to update the patriotic ceremony - the salute to the flag in schools every Monday morning. 
The Government makes national flags available to schools all over Australia. There would probably not be a member here who has not presented perhaps 50 or more of these flags all around the country and has seen them go to the masthead on a Monday morning. The article continues: 
The committee's  president, Mr Ian  Aird, said  today: 'We have heard that children in many schools are bored by it and pay scant regard  . . The State  president  of the RSL . . . said: 'We are a young country with few traditions. The ceremony in its present form is needed. It would be a great loss to the country if it were abolished'. 
I hope that members of this Parliament stand for the continuation of that flag ceremony at schools on Monday mornings, because our flag will be honoured in this country and overseas only while we stand for those principles that have made it great. The article continues: 
The  president  of the Primary Principals' Association,  Mr R.  G. Jennings, said that he had no doubt that the idea behind the ceremony was good. "The question is how best to get this idea to the children.' 
The idea of the tradition of Australia and the sacrifice that has been made so that children can go to school should be taught to the children. If the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  who is interjecting does not believe in these things let him get up and say so. Parents should teach their children and instil into them the traditions of Anzac and the other sacrifices that have been made in the 2 great world wars and the other minor conflicts. The parents and also the school teachers should do this, because it is the tradition that counts. I hope that school teachers - and a lot of them - will now and again calmly pause in this rush of modern civilisation for a few moments to tell the children the great story of the Australian tradition with its fighting forces. I believe that this must be done. 
I am asked what this has to do with the Budget. That is a question I can answer very fully. Australia is said to have a high standard of living, but has it a high standard of conduct? This is the question to be answered. Are we ready and prepared for it? When our men went overseas they were described as being on active service. I ask the honourable member who is interjecting all the time whether he is always on active service as far as the protection of this country is concerned. Of course he is not. He cares little about it. Are the young people who get together in a conglomeration of population in Melbourne and other places thinking about how they are going to protect this country? I do not believe they give it a thought. 
I read a story recently - I hope it is not true - about a conscientious objector who said that if a foreign foe came to this country and one of its troops was going to molest his mother he would not lift a hand to protect her. What decent man in Australia could stand for that sort of talk? I will not stand for it. I hope that every member of the Opposition is of the same opinion. Let me refer now to wheat sales to Mainland China. I want to read the following passages from Hansard to honourable members: 
The Country Party, of course, will do anything for trade. As long as it gets the country vote in return for sales of wool and wheat it could not care whom the goods are sold to. 
We refer to the hypocrisy of members of the Country Party for criticising Red China and its policies, on the one hand, while sending emissaries there to sell our products. Any markets in the world will be acceptable to members of the Country Party so long as the money comes in. 
The honourable member for Grayndler says that that is all right. This whole page contains quotations from Hansard of statements by him, sb he ought to know. He is the greatest circus acrobat in this country. He has changed his mind. I do not have time to read them all- 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The honourable member said at that time that the wheat was being used to feed the Vietcong. Now he is in favour of selling wheat to Mainland China, and conditions have not changed. The Vietcong are still operating in Vietnam. These quotations go back to 1965. Let me read another one: 
One cannot help feeling disturbed when one reads, for instance, of the late  Mr Moroney,  of the Australian Wheat Board, receiving a nice cheque from Russia and China, worth $48m, for Country Party wheat, although China is said to be an enemy which the Government is conscripting boys to fight. 
Now the honourable member for Grayndler is changing his mind altogether. If Wirth's Circus were still operating he would receive more money than he receives as a member of this Parliament. 
I appreciated the visit of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to the Mallee electorate, where he addressed 4 meetings. At one of the meetings he explained the stabilisation plan for dried fruit. It was defeated last time. This time the vote was 4,560 for the scheme and 56 'no' votes. 
So there were 56 'no' votes out of 4,616,. which was a great victory. The Minister also went to Hopetoun, Swan Hill and Kerang. At every meeting he answered! questions. There was not the slightest sign of any disruption, and I appreciated hisvisit. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that we must legislate against monopolies. Are the trade unions, not the greatest monopolies in this country? Does he believe that we should legislate against them? The honourable member for Stirling says that the country areas are getting all the attention and, as a result, the urban areas are being neglected. That is the very opposite of the case. At the moment there is a great boom in Melbourne and other urban areas. When one listens to the kind of talk we hear from honourable members opposite one does not wonder that the Labor Party has been on the Opposition benches for 22 years. I believe that it should remain there for another 22 years. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr WEBB (Stirling)- I wish to make  a  personal explanation. 
I have listened very carefully to the debate that has been taking place. The Opposition failed to call for a division on the second reading of the Bill. I thought that a division was going to take place, but members of the Opposition did not even sound their voices. They kept strangely quiet. 1 would like to ask honourable members opposite why they did not call for a division. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition says it was because they proposed to move an amendment. Do not let us forget that they are always talking about some people going back into the past on different subjects in debate. But this is a question for the future that we are discussing now - that the Act shall cease to be in force on the 1st day of January 1972. The point is that this is a matter for the future - not for the past at all. At the time of the second reading speech it may have been something to do with the past. Honourable members of the Opposition came in and spoke and called Government supporters hypocrites and all sorts of things which were unparliamentary. But those remarks regarding the second reading are not applicable to the matter before the Committee which concerns the future. 
It has been said in this chamber that the men who have been sent over to Vietnam are being brought back to Australia and they will be back here by 1st January next year. This will be done. But the whole point about this is: Does anyone think that some national service training is not in the best interests of the youth of this country? 
The honourable member should know. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  said that in the Second World War the men with the least education and the men who could hardly pass the aptitude test were often the best soldiers. How does he know? But I know because I had nearly 6 years with them. I know that you cannot split the Australian Imperial Forces according to educational standards. They were all out to fight for this country and to do the best job they could in the interests of this nation. It is no use the honourable member for Sydney trying to make out that a certain section was better than another based on educational qualifications were concerned. This is completely false, and I know it. I do not just think it. There is a lot of difference between what one thinks and what one knows. I know this because I was in close touch with many of the men in the campaigns. I say the honourable member's statement was completely wrong. 
The matter we are discussing is something for the future. I believe that Australians generally will agree that a certain amount of military training will not hurt any young man. It builds him up. Many a person has said to me when their sons have been in the services that the training has made a man of them and that they came out a lot better men than when they went in. We are not talking about Vietnam at all. We are talking about something in the future. To hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  speaking in this debate one would think that we were talking about the Vietnam war. We are not doing anything of the kind. Honourable members should keep this on the right basis and know that we aim to continue to have national service in peace time. This is good. 
Furthermore, the Opposition says that there is no danger to Australia and that some years ago someone said we had 10 years to prepare our defences. I made a speech in this House recently and pointed out that history has shown that the time when Neville Chamberlain said, after coming back from seeing Hitler: 'This means peace in our time'; war soon followed. Some people say: 'It cannot happen here'. That is as great a mistake as I have heard spoken in Parliament or out of it. It can happen here. 
I have heard about the fortress Australia policy: Wait- till they get on the beaches and fight them there. Any man who has been in such places as Europe, and Malaya and who has seen what happens when war comes into a country will not want it to come into this country. Therefore we have been fighting most of our battles overseas. When our men have gone overseas they have never gone on a quest in search of gain nor to invade weaker nations in lawless rage of conquest. They have gone overseas to uphold the principles of democracy and freedom. 
I know- and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  knows - that democracy and especially freedom are the greatest things that man can achieve. The honourable member has had the same experience as I have had in being deprived of freedom. 1 give him some credit. He is in a position now to feel that certain young men in gaol should have their freedom. No doubt this is something that goes back to the time when he did not have his freedom. British people stand for these principles. When our flag flutters in the breeze wc know that no man can can stand beneath its folds without becoming and remaining free. When I hear talk about having no national service in the future T am absolutely sickened. We are not talking about Vietnam. We are talking about the years to come, and we must be prepared. 
This nation is supposed to be tremendously prosperous. People know that I have said that our cities are prosperous but not the country areas. Everybody must know that there is a boom in the cities where most of the young .men seem to have congregated in a conglomeration of population. The great prosperity is in the cities. Surely people know that great empires of the past, the Roman Empire and Greek Empire, did not fall because conditions were bad and the people were desperate. They fell because the luxury that they were enjoying made them forget the things that build men and nations. I hope I have made it clear that I am opposed to the amendment because, after all. it means nothing. We must prepare for the future. We must continue national service. It is not a matter of Vietnam; it is a matter of Australia, of building up Australia's defence and keeping it at a certain level and standard of preparedness. 
If a young man has had 18 months military training he can help to defend his country. Everybody should know, unless he is completely ignorant of army tactics, that even 10 years afterwards if a man has had 18 months military training it stands him in good stead. He can, if required, be produced for a war. He may volunteer and he can be trained much more quickly than someone who has never had any training at all. But the Labor Party wants to wipe out all training for young men. That is the way to get them slaughtered. If an enemy came to this country and the young men had had no training whatever they would be slaughtered. Anybody who knows anything about the Army knows that. The honourable member for Reid knows that. He knows what happens to men in armies who are not trained. The trained forces win every time. So let us have a little bit of reason in this debate tonight and realise that we are not looking into the past but to the future of the great Australian nation. I do not think for one moment that any member of the Opposition does not want to see Australia prosperous. I am certain that no member of the Opposition wants to see enemy forces in this country. I am also certain that they do not want war. I do not want war, but what is the alternative if an enemy comes along? It is to fall at the feet of an invader, to become slaves of a foreign power. Everybody should know these things. Therefore I say that anybody who puts up a proposition which will mean the discontinuance of this training is right out of tune with things in this country and its future and I am convinced that he is out of. touch with what the population of this great nation requires. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Air in this House.' I have been informed that the Royal Australian Air Force is seeking an alternative site to Point Cook as a training centre in Victoria, and that such a training centre would need to be located where climatic conditions assure an absolute minimum of lost flying time due to weather conditions. I ask: If a change is to be made, will Mildura be given due consideration? The Minister will know that it was a . war time Air Force centre, that many of the amenities, necessary to aviation are already established and that the climatic conditions are ideal for the purpose. 
 I find that it is appreciated by people who read Hansard and also those who listen to the broadcast of proceedings in this Parliament if an honourable member who thinks the subject has not been explained sufficiently, reads at the beginning of his speech small portions of the Minister's second reading speech so that the people generally will know what the debate is all about. There are many people living in cities who do not have much idea of what goes on in the beef industry in the country. This is to be understood. I want to read from the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  these few words: 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Livestock Slaughter Levy Act 1964-1968 to provide for the extension, for a further period of 3 years, from 1st January 1972 to 31st December 1974, of the special levy on livestock slaughterings imposed initially in January 1969 to provide finance for the operations of the meat industry service and investigation section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
The next section of his speech is important. He states: 
The rates  of  the levy are to remain unaltered at lc per head on cattle (over 200 lb dressed weight) and one-tenth  of a  cent per head on sheep and lambs. 
This point is very important: 
The levy is payable by the owner of the livestock at the time of slaughter and in contrast to the levy used to finance the operations of the Australian Meat Board and the Australian Meat Research Committee may not be passed back to producers. 
This levy which is now being extended for a further period was first introduced for a period of 3 years in January 1969. At that time there was debate about who would pay the levy. Of course, it is the owner of the stock at the time of slaughter who pays the levy. If a beef exporter goes to the saleyards at, say, Newmarket, Cannon Hill or Homebush in Sydney and buys fat stock, the amounts charged by the auctioneering firms usually are deducted from the amount paid to the man who has sold the stock and sometimes this levy is included. 
In the application of this levy some things have had to be straightened out. For those who are not used to stock yards I point out that there are different sections for fat sheep, fat lambs, store sheep and store cattle. It is possible that someone seeing fat sheep in a pen may realise that they are a very good breed, and although the sheep are fat and fit for slaughter the person may buy them to take back to his farm for breeding purposes. On a lot of occasions I have seen fat stock bought which have never gone to the abattoirs but which have gone back onto a farm for breeding purposes. Therefore we have to be very careful that the amount of levy is not deducted from this man's account sales for the simple reason that the stock never get to the abattoirs. 
I refer to one matter so that others may realise the facts fully. As stated in the Minister's second reading speech, the levy is to be imposed in respect of cattle of over 200 lb dressed weight. That is the point I want to emphasise. This means really that only calves are not included. Cattle under 200 lb weight are not very large; as a matter of fact, they are not as big as some sheep. It is on record that at Casterton in Victoria, a well known stock centre, a suffolk cross wether that was slaughtered by a  Mr Murrell,  a butcher who was in business there some few years ago, had a dressed weight of 208 lb. Therefore cattle which are not subject to this levy - they mast be over 200 lb to attract the levy - are not very big. This sheep that was butchered by  Mr Murrell  was really a pet. It used to lead the other sheep to slaughter, and it would walk out through a certain gate. But one day the gate was dropped before the suffolk cross wether went through and it was slaughtered. It weighed 208 lb. . I have photographs of it which I can bring here to show honourable members to substantiate what 1 say. Furthermore, the authenticity of the weight is vouched for by 6 or 7 people in Casterton, a Western District town, who saw the carcass weighed. 
This Bill applies both to sheep and cattle, not just to beef cattle. Honourable members who have spoken so far have been talking about beef cattle only. As a rule the Victorian Railways cattle trucks hold 8 bullocks weighing from 750 lb to 800 lb. When talking about cattle some people express their weight as, say, 8 cwt but it should be 800 lb. If the cattle weigh, say, from 600 lb to 700 lb or a little less, 10 can be put in a truck. The point I am making is that at the present time in the markets of Victoria and other parts of Australia one bullock will bring more money than a whole truck load would have brought just before the Second World War. So cattle producers have kept well up with price rises and the cattle industry is in a particularly good state just now. 
One of the great demands is for baby beef. Baby beef cattle may be 400 lb or 500 lb, depending on bow quickly they are fattened and put on the market. But generally speaking they are about 300 lb dressed weight. The cattle producer has to decide when to put his stock on the market. He must put them on the market when they are flush with condition. If he keeps them a little too long they go into the older cattle variety and he does not get the high price. If he puts them on the market too soon he does not get the advantage of the weight they would have gained if he had held them. All these are problems that face the cattle man who sells his stock in the markets of Australia. There are many more cattle about at the present time and certainly the beef industry is expanding. It is expanding for one reason, and that is that wool is not selling well and sheep and lambs are bringing prices that are hardly reasonable. Therefore cattle are the best stock to market if one can run them. As has been said on so many occasions, a person cannot breed cattle and fatten them overnight. If you are changing over from sheep or some other stock to cattle it takes a long time to get the cattle on the market after breeding them. Of course, pigs come under separate but similar legislation. They are in demand now and are increasing very much in numbers throughout Victoria in the places with which I am acquainted. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  produced 2 tins of meat. He said that one was from Paraguay. He asked why we should import this tinned meat into a beef producing country. This is a fair question. He said also that American cattle men do not object to third grade beef being imported into the United States of America. But they have been against imports of Australian best beef and have been lobbying in the Parliament to stop the importation of Australian beef. But according to what the honourable member for Dawson said they do not mind third class meat coming into the country. The tin of meat from Paraguay which he showed us reveals that third class meat is certainly coming into this, country. What we want to get into America is first class meat, because having sampled first class meat from Australia the American people will want more of it. I think if one sampled some of this Paraguayan tinned meat one would not want to buy it a second time, so I do not think they are gaining anything by sending it here. We have to remember that we are trying to get most of our beef into the American market all the time. Can we close our doors completely? We can put the tariffs up as high as possible and I am in favour of this, but can we completely exclude imports? No nation can ever hope always to sell and never to buy. I believe the tariffs should be made very high on any imported beef, high enough to make it impossible for it to compete against our beef. I believe that this must be done and is being done. I have seen some of these tins of Paraguayan meat before - someone drew my attention to it - and I believe it is being brought in as an experiment. But we are trying all the time to get our meat into the United States. I know that the right honourable  Sir John  McEwen, when he was a Minister here, negotiated a free mar ket between Australia and New Zealand. Someone asked whether we should stop the importation of New Zealand lamb and he said: 'What sort of a case would I have when I go to America and want to sell Australian beef to the United States if I stopped our sister Australasian nation, New Zealand, sending lamb to Australia?' He proved fairly conclusively that the lamb coming in was of such a minute quantity that it did not make much difference to the market. The market for fat lambs has been extremely irregular. It is not very nice for someone to go along and sell his sucker lamb- 
I did not refer to you. When a producer sells his sucker lamb at perhaps $4.50 and then shortly afterwards sees the market price go up to $3 for sucker lamb of the same quality and condition he is greatly disappointed. So what we have to strive for is a more even market for fat lambs in this country because I believe fat lamb production has not kept up with rising costs nearly as well as beef production has. That is why more and more producers are turning to beef. Of course, we can produce some of the best fat lamb in the world but the export market is not good. Once upon a time buyers for exporters such as Sims Cooper, John Cook and Company or Borthwicks would go round and buy thousands and thousands of lambs for export. But the export market has not been good lately and therefore lamb producers have been in and out of success in the market. They have had some good sales and some devastating sales which have sapped their enthusiasm for the breeding and fattening of lambs. I have already asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  whether he realises that the difference between the price being paid in the market for fat lambs and the price being charged by butchers can possibly be explained when the price being charged by the butcher is so much more than what the producers are getting for it on the hoof. This has been illustrated in the town where I live. The butcher there has a good business and is  a  good man in the trade. He used to open on Saturday mornings but he stopped this practice simply because, as be put it: *I would not take as much money on Saturday morning as I would have to pay my staff: and certainly I would not make profit because of the new pay and conditions gained by the unions for the assistant butchers in my shop.' Honourable members must recall that most of the rise in price of lamb between the time it leaves the primary producer and the time it is sold over the counter to the customer can be attributed to the high wages paid to slaughtermen and those employed in butchers' shops and other rising costs. 
 There is the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  speaking about the cockies. Even a man from the city ought to know better than that. The honourable member comes from Sturt. lt is a metropolitan seat in Adelaide. Whenever one speaks of what the primary producer is up against the honourable member generally tries to ridicule the arguments one puts up and calls the primary producers cockies. I object to this and wish he would keep quiet and go back to the pavements where he belongs. We have just heard a speech from the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  He made one or two very good points. He supported this Bill. I am glad he did and 1 think he and other honourable members would congratulate the Government for bringing in this Act some years ago. It is now being extended. Apparently this Act was not thought of previously as being necessary. The honourable member asked a question that I can answer by referring to the second reading speech of the Minister. The honourable member asked: 'Will there be enough money to keep this research going for the period set out?' The Minister said: 
Funds from the levy should, on current estimates, provide finance to allow a continuity of operations over a period in excess of 3 years. 
From all the investigations we have made the answer is that there will be sufficient money. The honourable member said that efficiency is increasingly necessary. I think some people may get the wrong idea from the way he put it. The point is that efficiency is always necessary. If there is no efficiency in an industry that industry must therefore be inefficient. For the benefit of the honourable member and his constituents, what he was saying was that we must not condone inefficiency. I would not stand for inefficiency. Quite candidly, a man who is inefficient in the breeding and fattening of stock should not be in the game at all. We must not allow inefficiency in any way in an industry and we should always strive to make industries efficient. Efficiency is the main factor in any industry. Let that word stand out. 
I took a few notes while other honourable members were speaking and I just want to go through them. I believe that the research done so far has been excellent. Of course, certain research was being conducted long before this Act was first introduced. Most people regard a fluke as something unusual. People say: 'So and so fluked something.' In terms of sheep raising the fluke is a parasitic worm that has killed millions of sheep and has perhaps kept many more than that number from being fattened because the fluke attacks the liver. The point I want to make is one I have made in the past in referring to the preservation of ibis rookeries. The ibis is a bird that travels all over the countryside, it knows no boundaries, and flies back to the rookery at night. It consumes a tremendous amount of these fluke worms and other parasites. 
It has been said that people arc eating more meat than ever before. The honourable member for Riverina said this. I think what he meant to say was - of course, he did say this and I am not trying to make a point of it - that more beef is being consumed now than ever before. But, as he also said, this only applies to certain parts of the world, because beef is so dear that only people in a pretty good financial position can buy it. After all, we hear talk about starvation in Pakistan but I have not heard anybody say that we should send over 2 or 3 shipments of prime beef. So far as we are concerned beef today is for the ones who can pay for it. After all, it is a scarce commodity in certain parts of the world. 
Finally, 1 want to refer to a recent newspaper report that people want more tender meat. If a person goes into a cafe or restaurant and orders a steak he frequently finds it so tough that he cannot eat it, although he has to pay for it. He will not be very happy and will hesitate to order it again. Possibly some process may be introduced to make meat tender, which will make it more acceptable to the consumer. In this way, more meat will be sold and the cattle men and the nation will benefit. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Notwithstanding what the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  said, I do not think the questions to which he referred are being asked across the countryside. I travel throughout the Mallee electorate and have visited the Riverina electorate - I go over there now and again, sometimes even for a debate - and I have not heard these questions brought up at any time. The honourable member for Riverina probably has met some people who have asked these questions, hut generally speaking I think he has a vivid imagination. He also pointed out that it is the right amount of fertiliser applied to crops in certain areas that is important. I think the best judge of that is the efficient farmer. One may have 2 paddocks on one's farm but those paddocks may want different applications of superphosphate. You cannot have an across the board application of superphosphate. It depends on the nature of the soil. Everybody should know that. The man who works theland and knows the property is the man who can best judge what is required. 
The honourable member for Riverina asked whether the farmer is getting the full benefit from the bounty and indicated that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has full figures available on this. The honourable member for Dawson referred to me in his speech and that is why I rose to speak. He said there has been a friendly argument between the honourable member for Mallee and himself as to whether the farmer is getting the full amount of the bounty. He finished up by saying that if the farmer is getting the full amount of the bounty he will support the Bill. He intends to support the Bill now and must, therefore, think the farmer is getting the full amount of the bounty. This is logic and we must talk logically. We cannot talk in an airy fairy way. He intends to support the Bill so he must think the farmer is getting the full amount. I have not heard it said by anyone that the farmer is not getting the full amount. Superphosphate brought land in'.o greater productivity. In a kind of way that might not be noticed by some people. The honourable member for Riverina said that in 1969 or thereabouts the Government brought in the superphosphate bounty with the idea of running more sheep. Had he been in the House at that time would he have opposed the Bill? Then he said the Government applied wheat quotas.  His  memory is very short because at the time of World War II in 1944 the Labor Government of the day allowed the quota system to operate in Victoria. Under this system wheat farmers had to have a certificate to grow a certain amount of wheat and if they grew more than the amount shown on the certificate they could not strip it. In fact, a man named  Mr P.  Vaughan at Sea Lake in Victoria had a certificate for 200 acres. I have often told this story in this House. He had a crop of 50 acres which was self sown and he got in touch with the authorities and asked could he strip the 50 acres self sown. The authorities said he could provided he left 50 acres of his certified crop. Then he asked whether he could strip the 50 acres self sown and feed it to stock on his farm and the authorities said no. It is not much use the honourable member for Riverina coming into this House and saying he is against various things and that a Labor Government would do certain other things. 
In 1944 I was in Malaya but I have read Hansard very carefully and know what happened during that time. I read Hansard when I came back to Australia and came into this Parliament. I support this Bill to the hilt. I think it is in the best interests of primary industry. 
I listened very carefully to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who said that this was the greatest national sentimental move that he had known in his time. 
He said in his time. 
I think that if anything would cause disrespect for Parliament it is the speech we have just heard from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in which he was trying to ridicule the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. When this Parliament is sitting it is the most important place in Australia in spite of what has been said by the honourable member. When he said that the  Clerk  of the House is a bad title 1 very quietly said: 'What name do you suggest?' Then, of course, in his usual manner he tried to insult me. The honourable member is generally pretty successful insulting people. If he gets any satisfaction out of it he can wallow in it as far as I am concerned. 
Yes, I am when he is very nasty to me. Most of the things the honourable member referred to including the Mace, are traditional. He does not believe in tradition. He speaks, too, of the young people with whom he has' associated. I know that there is a percentage of radical young people with whom he has associated the honourable member has been associating with them. However, the majority of our young people honour the country, the flag and the Parliament and they do not act in the way that was suggested by the honourable member for Dawson. 
The honourable member for Bendigo says that it is completely wrong. If the honourable member wants to get personal I ask him: How do the people in Bendigo regard the Parliament? I travel through Bendigo when I come to Canberra and return home and I speak to people there. They hold this Parliament in. the highest regard. If the honourable member for Bendigo wants to join with the honourable member for Dawson in dragging Parliament down, he can do it, but do not let him start interjecting when I am trying to raise it to a higher level. I believe it is right that we should uphold the traditions of the Parliament and I believe that the people support the Government in this respect. If honourable members want further proof it is obvious from the fact that the Australian Labor Party has been out of office for 22 years. Do not think for one moment that all people in Australia are altogether foolish about happenings in the Parliament. This seems to be the view of the honourable member for Dawson and, I suspect, the honourable member for Bendigo by the things they seek to do in this Parliament. Why is it, then, that the people of Australia, if they are all down on the Government and on the way in which . the 
Parliament is being conducted, have not long ago put the Labor Party into Government? This question should be asked throughout the nation. 
That is the sort of interjection one gets from members of the Opposition. Why do I not wear a wig? Because I have not the same good head of hair as the honourable member. I can see other honourable members who are similarly afflicted. This is one of those personal, nasty sort of cracks that honourable members opposite make when they feel they are on the wrong end of the stick, and that is where the honourable member for Dawson is tonight. 
I agree with some of the things that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said but I disagree with others. First of all, he took over the role I previously undertook in condemning the reading of speeches by members. I decided not to persevere with this role, but he has taken it on. I believe that what he says is correct. Very few honourable members have been both in Opposition and in government and have had the advantage of seeing what happens on both sides of the House. The honourable member for Dawson certainly has not because he is one of the new boys here. I want to point out what happens when members read their speeches. I have campaigned for a long time against the reading of speeches. I have never drawn the attention of the  Speaker  to an honourable member who is reading his speech but I have heard of this being done on, I suppose, 12 or IS times. It is claimed that an honourable member is reading his speech and the  Speaker  usually says: 'I do not know whether he is reading his speech or referring to voluminous notes'. Of course, the honourable member is reading word for word from a paper. All honourable members have seen this happen; I am not telling them something new. 
One day in this chamber, as Hansard shows, I said that the one thing we want in this House is sincerity. I said that we know when members are reading their speeches and if the  Speaker  cannot decide whether they are and says that they must be referring to voluminous notes, the best thing we can do is to take out of the Standing Orders the rule that says a member shall not read his speech. Of course I was hoist on my own petard because at the next meeting this was done. The sincerity I want is that when a man is reading his speech, it should be recognised that he is doing so. 
The honourable member for Bradfield', in the same way as the honourable member for Dawson, likes to say a few words that are not very encouraging or courteous to honourable members. He spoke about what happens in the Parliament, about members visiting people and discussing their pensions, and people coming to members and wasting their time. He  referred  to question time and said that we get a question about skeleton weed in the Mallee'. All honourable members heard him say this a short while ago. The whole point is that most members of the Opposition - apparently the honourable member for Bradfield is tarred with the same brush - represent city areas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  - Order! There is no point of order. 
Of course, the honourable member for Grayndler constantly repeats things so I must also repeat them. Some time ago, the Melbourne Herald' used to publish a regular article called Overnight at Canberra'. The honourable member will recall it well. I am mentioning this matter because he has taken repeatedly the same point of order. At that time, nearly every night he and I used to engage in debate. Of course, the debates went sorely against him. He never forgets the thrashings that I used to give him. Therefore, it is noticeable that every time he makes a speech he always refers to the honourable member for Mallee. If an honourable member can find in Hansard 10 of his speeches in which the honourable member for Grayndler has not referred to me he is pretty good at research. 
No, I never refer to him at all because I think he is all right as long as he is not making speeches. Apart from the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  I am probably the only member to have raised the question of skeleton weed. 
Another city member, who is constantly interjecting, says that it is a serious problem in the Mallee but he is only being sarcastic. 
The honourable member is not trying to help me; be is being sarcastic. My advocacy in relation to skeleton weed has resulted in people in the north receiving hundreds of dollars from governments to fight this menace and consequently it is not the serious problem it was some time ago. I conclude by saying that members who have not had experience on both sides of the House are not in a position to talk of the things which are happening and about the hundreds of millions of dollars which are spent in just a few Bills. When I first came here, the expenditure of that amount of money was debated and approved at 3 o'clock and 4 o'clock in the morning. 
It did happen and I have Hansard to prove it. I think that honourable members should hold up the traditions of Parliament. I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield that more members should be present in the House than is normally the case. We should have good attendances. How can we expect the people to take any interest if the members of Parliament do not? There are certain honourable members who are very good in their attendances and others whose attendances are disastrous. Why do honourable members not get together, sit in this House and find out what is going on instead of rushing in when there is a division with the call 'What is the vote on?' 
The honourable member for Sydney who is interjecting is a fairly good attender in the House. I know that, and I appreciate it. I should like other' honourable members who think that there is no more important place to go than this Parliament to realise, as I said earlier, that when this Parliament is sitting it is the most important place in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Will the right honourable gentle man cause investigations to be made with a view to ascertaining what percentage of trade commissioners representing Australia speak the language of the country in which they are stationed? In future appointments of trade commissioners will the Minister give high priority to ability on the part of trade commissioners to speak the language of the country in which they are to represent Australia? 
In listening to the speech that has just been made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  I am reminded of something that was said about Oliver Cromwell. Certain things happened, and it was said: Then curs took courage and tore the great man's body from the tomb, from hallowed ground. But no power can tear him from his immortal sepulchre in England's heart'. It is generally accepted that if one can prove that a certain thing a man has said is incorrect then one must cast a doubt on everything he says. We have been listening just now to the honourable member for Stuart and this made me think about Cromwell. The honourable member made a remark about  Sir John  McEwen who for so long graced this House as a Minister and who was a back bencher during the time when the Labor Party was in office. I wrote down what the honourable member for Stuart said regarding  Sir John.  I do not care whether this matter takes all my speaking time because I want to clear up this matter. The honourable member said that when  Sir John  came into this House first he said that he would have no truck with the Country Party. If the honourable member for Sturt has a spark of manhood in his makeup he will get up an apologise for this. The honourable member has just interjected and said that  Sir John  came in as an independent. Of course he did not come in as an independent. He was a Country Party candidate at the election when he won the seat. He was a Country Party member. He did not deviate one iota from being a country member for 36 years. Then a new man comes into this chamber who does not know the circumstances and is prepared to make a statement, that he should know is untrue, about a great statesman. It is my duty to put the record straight. The honourable member has taken courage in the same way as the people did regarding Cromwell but while  Sir John  is alive. John McEwen stands high in the annals of this Parliament and will continue to stand high both while he lives and after. I have spent a lot of my time on this subject. In the few minutes I have left I would like to refer to the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  who said that certain people in this House, it appears, do not realise the very desperate straits that many primary producers are in. All honourable members representing country electorates - I do not confine it to Country Party members - know this very well. They travel around the area. They see what is happening. They are anxious to help. 
One thing about the present recession in the country is that we know what causes it Sometimes a thing will happen and one does not know what is causing it. Broadly, the cause is high costs and low prices. I have said before, and I say again, that any man who can stop inflation and raise the price of primary products at this stage would be not only the greatest man in Australia today but the greatest man in the world this century. Inflation exists in all countries with people attempting to combat it but without success. The low price for wool is of critical importance to the people of this country. It would take a genius to find a way to lift the price of wool, but even a genius may not be successful. What the Australian Labor Party does is try to blame the Government for low wool prices. 
We hear interjections in this place from honourable members who have footpaths in the cities in which they live but they live there because they have businesses there. But out in the wide open spaces - what I would call the better Australia; that part outside the metropolitan area - there are men who require assistance urgently. This Government is most anxious to help those men to the best of its ability and for the good of the economy of this nation. This talk about the Government being to blame does not ring true to me. It must be remembered that this Government has been in office for 22 years. The primary producers, the secondary industry employees and the merchants - and these people are not foolish - would have put this Government out of office a long time ago if it had been in the best interests of this country. I do not say that all these people have always been satisfied with this Government, but they have had a look at this alternative government - the Opposition - and in terror they have said We do not want that Party in office.' The present government is the best available and we must stick to it. The country and city representatives in this Government will fight for what is best for the people of Australia. 
In view of my limited time in this debate I will not touch on some subjects which I had intended to deal with. I would like to point out how strongly members of the Opposition cry out about reports of high profits by companies in secondary industry. They cry out about the high profits but they never cry out about the cause of these high profits. 
The honourable member for Dawson says 'rubbish' but he does not know what I intend to say about the reason for these high profits. He has not the slightest idea of what I am about to say. He is just hitting in the dark. 
I will support it to the hilt. The reason for these high profits is the high tariff protection given to some industries. Our big manufacturing industries are given this protection and some make these large profits. Why do members of the Opposition not support the fight against this high protection? The answer is very simple. It suits the Labor Party  W&gt;  have high profits in these industries, lt suits the Labor Party to have this protection which permits these high profits to be made because immediately the secondary industries get high profits the unions involved go to the Commonwealth Arbitration Court seeking higher wages for their members. It has been said that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is supposed to grant salary rises and better conditions in accordance with what industry can pay. If there is this high protection and industry is making huge profits then of course the Labor Party will cry out in protest but it never crys out against the cause of the high profits. This is no secret. The people of Australia all realise this. The honourable member for Dawson has cried out in the belief that he knew what I had intended saying but he came in too quickly. I do not want to say any more about him because he would only try to insult me again as he did last night. 
The Country Party believes that tariff protection cannot be drastically reduced. If this happened the people who would suffer most would be the wage earners and to some extent the primary industries. As investigations should be made of our industries and those industries which can get along without high tariff protection should have the level of tariff reduced to bring them into some accord with primary industries. This country cannot long endure a situation in which the cities are booming and the countryside is in a critical financial situation. There is plenty of money in this country. Australia ' has never been richer but the money is in the wrong places. The only way to get it into the right places is to bring down the level of tariffs to a reasonable figure. I do not say that we should cut out protection altogether. I am not against tariff protection. I am not an out and out antiprotectionist but I believe that tariff protection has gone wild in this country and it has reached the extent where it is not in the best interests of the economy. The primary producer is the man who will fight to the last for his future. The Government is giving financial assistance in many ways to primary industry. I had intended to deal with this matter this evening but I have not sufficient time. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development who will be aware that most water storages serving Victoria are now at a satisfactory level, but this has not always been so and, as Mallee constituents are highly dependent on an adequate water supply, I ask: What progress' has been made in discussions in regard to the building of the proposed Dartmouth Dam? 
 I would like to put some sanity into the debate tonight. We have just heard the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  complain and criticise the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for going overseas. If the Prime Minister did not go overseas to meet world leaders the honourable member for Sturt would complain that the Prime Minister just sits in the Parliament or stays at home when he should be around the world seeing world leaders to see what he can do for Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. The statement made yesterday by him advising the House of adjustments to his original intention regarding reorganisation of telecommunications is appreciated. 1 now ask: Is any reorganisation of the postal section of his Department contemplated and, if so, can he give any information in regard to it? 
I know that the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  has the responsibility of getting legislation through the House and he has moved this motion today probably with some knowledge that is not at my command. It has been stated that the House may sit until 9th December. Perhaps the Leader of the House has information and wants the House to rise earlier. I do not know, so when the motion is put I will vote for it. However I would suggest to him that, now that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has spoken of the co-operation of the Opposition in getting Bills through the House and has said that his Party will agree to cognate Bills being debated and their debate being concluded after 11 o'clock, the Leader of the House might consider taking some other action. The Leader of the Opposition has given these assurances. This is the kind of thing we have been seeking ever since I have been a member of this Parliament. I have always been against late sittings but I know also that legislation must be passed through the House by a certain time each year. Some honourable member has interjected and mentioned 3 o'clock in the morning. I have always been against such late sittings whether Labor has been in government or the present coalition has been in government. If members of the Opposition will remain quiet for a few moments- 
You say too much. I would like to see you moved further away and among Labor Party members at the back of the chamber. Let them put up with you. 1 have been in my seat in this chamber for a long time now and I have heard much abuse and bad language- 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Lucock) Order! I would suggest that both the honourable member for Sturt and the honourable member for Mallee restrain themselves on this occasion. 
I am always anxious to be associated with any Bill providing for water conservation and, although I am a Victorian, I am interested in this water conservation scheme in Western Australia because, after all, we are all Australians. I believe that soundly based - 
I underline 'soundly based' - water conservation is one of the main priorities at which we should aim. I have said so often that it could be regarded as tedious repetition that my No. 1 priority is defence. It is no good having all the good things we have - a democratic government, a democratic Parliament, good houses, motor cars and all the other things that make for good living - unless they can be protected, so the first priority must be defence. My second priority is primary industry, coupled, in most cases, with water conservation. These are the priorities at which I aim. 
I do not want to make a long speech tonight but, as a Victorian, I want to support this scheme in Western Australia. I draw attention to the fact that it provides for pipelining of water. For many years I have been advocating the pipelining of water to rural areas for the simple reason that in my electorate of Mallee, in the north west of Victoria, there are areas in which more than 90 per cent of the water is lost from the water storage to the consumer through evaporation and seepage. This means that in that part of the world pipelining would be equal to duplicating all the water storages. But there is more in it than that. The point is that storages cannot always be filled. A dozen storages might be built but it might not be possible to fill them so we must make the best use that we can of the water that we conserve. Although I have not visited and inspected this Western Australian scheme, I believe that it is vital to Western Australia. From figures recently released I understand that Western Australia's population is growing as fast as or faster than any of the other States on a percentage basis and provision must be made for the future. This Bill is in the bests interests of Western Australia and also in the best interests of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Trade and Industry. As there is an increasingly urgent heed to sell more of our primary and secondary products overseas, I ask the right honourable gentleman whether he will give consideration to the appointment of at least 3 efficient and accredited salesmen of high integrity, not necessarily with academic degrees, to travel overseas and continually engage in establishing markets throughout the world for our products - working, of course, in close co-operation with all those who represent Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Is the Minister aware that ibis play an important role in keeping down pests that endanger primary production and that it is necessary to take urgent action to preserve ibis breeding rookeries so that the number of ibis may be maintained and even increased? Will the Minister visit Australia's most extensive ibis rookeries located near Kerang, Victoria, so that he may at first hand gain information that will aid him in co-operating with the State authorities to preserve these ibis breeding grounds? 
Taking notice of what you have just said,  Mr Speaker,  I address a question to the Minister for National Development. Will the Minister accept my invitation to visit the electorate of Mallee? 
As a member of the Privileges Committee for more than 20 years I cannot agree with the comments of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in relation to letters to the editor. He maintained that this is a great democratic principle which allows certain people to put their views forward. It appears to me that only certain people write letters to the editor and probably many letters are written by the same people under different nom de plumes. I agree with the honourable member for Reid and with other honourable members that the general rules relating to privilege should be laid down clearly in this Parliament because we are acting on rules that were laid down at the turn of the century in the House of Commons. For that reason, in the case with which the honourable member for Reid was associated, I abstained from voting at one stage of the Committee's deliberations. I considered that the evidence which I could obtain and the rules which were laid down as te the way the matter was to be handled wen not up to date and therefore I abstained from voting. 
It would be a physical impossibility for editors to look at every letter to decide which ones should be published. Hovever, there are sub-editors. The editor doe not do the whole job and does not go through all the letters. In a newspaper such is the Australian' he has a tremendous job and has sub-editors to assist him. Or. this occasion, somehow the system broke down. When certain letters are received which appear as though they should not be published they are submitted to the editor for his final decision. That is the whole story of what really happened. There is nc need for the Parliament to tell the editor of a newspaper that he should take responsibility for letters published because he automatically takes the responsibility as the editor of a newspaper. On this occasion, the editor of the 'Australian',  Mr Thomson,  agreed readily to accept full responsibility for the letter. On a number of occasions the Committee informed the editor that this was his responsibility. It impressed on him that he should have handled the job in a more responsible manner and should have seen that the letter did not go into the newspaper. As he admitted that he was responsible - this is set out in the report - the Committee felt that its finding was a correct one. 
However, there is one point which, as far as I have been able to ascertain, has not been touched on by any honourable member. In the last paragraph of the Committee's recommendation - after all, it is only a recommendation; the House must make the decision - it is stated: 
That it considers publication of an apology by the editor of the 'Australian' does not absolve the author of the letter of his guilt in the matter. Earlier in the recommendation it states: 
That publication of the letter signed by P. Wintle constituted a contempt of the Parliament and that it should not have been published. 
Although the Committee may recommend that the Parliament accept the apology from the editor, if  Mr Wintle  is eventually found he is not absolved from the charge of contempt of the Parliament. The case does not end with the acceptance of what was said by the editor's apology and what the editor decided he will do.  Mr Wintle  is still guilty of writing a letter to the newspaper alleging corruption on the part of parliamentarians, although the editor may absolve himself by printing a letter of apology in the newspaper if this Parliament so decides. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
First of all I must say how delighted I was with the answer I received today from the 
Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is also the  Chairman  of the River Murray Commission. I had asked him whether he would visit the Mallee electorate. The Minister said, yes, loud and clearly. The people of the Mallee will be- 
Of course, the honourable member for Dawson has already tried to throw some doubt on this visit by asking when it will take place. But the Minister has said that he will come into the Mallee electorate. He does not mean that be will make his visit in 10 years time; it will be in the fairly near future and the people of the Mallee will appreciate his visit. 
It is my intention, if 1 can work it, to take him to Sunraysia of which Mildura is the centre. It is in the greatest soldier settlement in Australia engaged in primary industry and is an excellent city. I also want him to go to Robinvale, the centre of a new soldier settlement, and down to Boundary Bend, Swan Hill and see Nyah, Kerang, Cohuna and other places where the great production which takes place is almost entirely dependent on water. As the  Chairman  of the River Murray Commission he is the man whom we want to see. The Minister said that he would visit the Mallee electorate and I have suggested the parts of the Mallee electorate to which I will endeavour to take him. I believe that his visit will be very beneficial because the Minister will be able to explain certain things to the residents of these areas who are so dependent on water. 
I asked the Minister for National Development a question in the House a short time ago about the salinity report. The Minister said that the Government would take some months to examine the report closely and that this was being done. So by the time the Minister makes his visit to the Mallee whether it be in a month or early next year - he will have some clear understanding of the report and its implementation. Of course, people who live in areas such as the one I represent are very dependent on irrigation. Irrigation gives to primary industry a security which cannot be obtained in any other way. 1 have some figures which are only approximate and which show that New South Wales and Victoria each has approximately  M  million acres under irrigation. 
1 repeat that New South Wales and Victoria each has approximately 1 1/3 million acres of land under irrigation. South Australia has approximately 140,000 acres under irrigation. 
The Mallee electorate produces some of the best dried fruits in the world and its citrus and fat sheep and lambs and cattle are of the best quality. In the electorate rice, cotton and olives are grown and darying also is carried on. 
Yes, 1 thought someone would ask whether we grow olives. If honourable members ever get the opportunity to go along the Murray Valley near Robinvale, they might like to call in to a place called Oliveholme. If they do, they will see one of the finest olive groves in the world, lt is easily the best in Australia and it is a sight worth seeing. If honourable members get the opportunity of visiting this place they should see the manager of the olive grove and I have no doubt that he will welcome them and show them around. As I said, it is realty worth seeing. 
My general concern in speaking tonight is in regard to the Dartmouth Dam. I have mentioned right from the start that this dam should have been built long before this. Of course, the decision to build this dam was caught up in politics in this chamber more than anything else. It became evident to members of the Labor Party that if they could get the people of South Australia to believe that if the Dartmouth Dam was built then the Chowilla Dam would not be built, this would clear the path to enable  Mr Dunstan  to become the leader of a Labor government in South Australia. This worked pretty well and  Mr 
Dunstan became, as a result of what took place on this topic, the Premier of South Australia. 
I want to refer to something which took place some time ago in order to substantiate a point on which I have been contradicted. On 8th April 1970 when the River Murray Waters Bill to implement the building of the Dartmouth Dam was before the House, the honourable member for Dawson, by way of amendment, moved:  this House is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the States for the establishment of a national water conservation and construction authority, embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority, to carry out a systematic and efficient development of soundly based water storages in the major river basins including the Murray and Darling systems. 
Later, during the Committee stage of the Bill the honourable member moved an amendment in the following terms. Clause 4, which stated that the amending Agreement was ratified and approved: 
Omit 'is hereby ratified and approved', insert shall nol be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed.' 
Every member of the Labor Party voted for those 2 amendments as they were entitled to do if they so desired. 
I wrote down part of what the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  had to say in his speech on these estimates. Although the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  says that I read my speeches - and everyone here knows that I do not - I made these notes so that I would be able to quote the honourable member correctly. Indeed, the honourable member for Grayndler only wishes that he could make a speech without reading it. But, of course, he does not have that capacity. We know that. However, I wrote down- 
Because I did not want to rely entirely on my memory I wrote down what was said by the honourable member for Riverina. He said very mildly - now and again he gets a bit heated, but he was quite reasonable tonight - that it has now been agreed that the Dartmouth Dam should be the next storage to be built. But in April of last year this was not so at all. At that time the Opposition could not decide between Chowilla and Dartmouth and this difference of opinion held things up. I was very pleased to hear the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  speak about the delay in building the Dartmouth Dam and regret the increased cost that resulted. This has been a tragedy as far as irrigation is concerned. I am very sorry about it and I realise that we cannot do very much about it now. The Labor Party is sorry, too, because it now agrees that the Dartmouth Dam should have been built first, but  Mr Dunstan  has become the Premier of South Australia in the meantime. Does this compensate for losing the benefit of the immediate building of the Dartmouth Dam? Labor Party members will have to work this out themselves. I personally do not think that it does because I believe that the Dartmouth Dam would do more good than anything else I can think of. The building of this dam will give us great security as far as irrigation is concerned. I do not want to get into an argument about Chowilla. Chowilla is down the river from Mildura. The river lies somewhere adjacent to all these areas about which I have spoken and which I hope the Minister will visit. The flow of the river retards to a certain extent the salinity that is so dangerous to production in the area. But when the river reaches Chowilla it is beyond this production area and would have no effect in reducing salinity. We should try to use to the best advantage the water we can conserve. The whole point is that we can build new storages - and I believe we can fill one like Dartmouth which is so admirably situated - but if we built, say, a further 20 or 50 storages we could not always fill them. So therefore we have to make use of the water we conserve in the storages we can fill. Over the years I have been advocating a pipeline system. It has been said by  Mr East,  once Water Supply Commissioner for Victoria, that in certain parts of the Mallee over 95 per cent of the water is lost between the storage and the consumer through seepage and evaporation. This means that if we had pipelines we could double or duplicate the capacity of the storages that serve that area. This would be a great thing for Australia and also, at a time when there is some unemployment, it would create employment. I suggest that the Minister should consider this and convene a meeting between the State Ministers and himself to look into the matter. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and Science who is in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Is the Minister aware that many people are loath to order mutton and especially beef at eating houses because the meat, when received, is too tough to eat and enjoy? Does the Minister know  that a process that will make tough meat tender is said to have been discovered? Will he ask the CSIRO to make investigations into the success or otherwise of the said process which, if satisfactory, would add greatly to the demand for Australian meat? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. Last night he replied to the debate on the PostmasterGeneral's Department section of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and he will recall saying, regarding the proposed reorganisation of the telecommunications section of his Department, that area managers will be appointed within the next few months and they will make a personal inspection of the areas which concern them and inspect the facilities available. I ask the Minister: Does this mean definitely that before a decision is made as to where the headquarters will be located, the appropriate area manager, when appointed, will visit Mildura in Victoria concerning the proposed telecommunications reorganisation? 
 I did not intend to enter this debate but what we have heard from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  really forces me to speak. First of all, I agree with him very thoroughly- 
I am just replying to what has been said by the honourable member- 
It seems that the honourable member for Dawson wants to stop me from speaking. If he would only listen for a moment he would find that I agree with him on certain things that he said. I believe it is very bad indeed for members of this Parliament or any other parliament to make statements that are untrue. As the honourable member said, they are making the statements under privilege of the Parliament to which they belong. I rose just for a few minutes to say that it has happened now as far as the honourable member for Dawson is concerned. It has been attributed to the honourable member for Dawson and to the Labor Party that they are getting certain funds from a certain source. I will not even mention the name of the source. It has been mentioned. Some new members may not know this, but I know it and can prove it up to the hilt that when- 
In a roundabout way the honourable member for Bowman is trying to say that the Country Party gets its funds from some place where it should not get them. When this is said about the Opposition, immediately the honourable member for Dawson gets up and says that the Mother of parliaments and all the parliaments should be changed to suit him. I ask: How often have we heard in this House members of the Opposition say that certain funds; - large sums of money - come to the Country Party from certain sources? 
The honourable member for Bowman has proved this up to the hilt by his interjection. That is right, he said. 
What has just been said proves my point. When the honourable member for Dawson brought this up in his speech not one member of the Opposition took a point of order against him, saying that it has nothing to do with the estimates. But the moment I get up, agreeing with the honourable member for Dawson to a certain extent, straight away there are interjections and points of order saying that I should not be allowed to explain my Party's position in this matter. The honourable member for Dawson has made certain statements. I repeat, because I want it to sink in, that I agree with him that if people in this Parliament or any other parliament tell malicious lies about other members, that is entirely wrong. In this chamber I have always said that I stand for policies, not personalities. But we must remember that the Opposition has often attributed certain funds as coming to the Country Party from all sorts of sources, and that has not been true either. The moment such a statement is made about the Opposition the honourable mem ber for Dawson gets up and makes a speech. Then he tries to stop me from speaking. We get points of order about the matter not having anything to do with the estimates before us - which is quite right, I suppose - and honourable members opposite try to prevent me from putting my case. I would like to say just one or two more sentences. 
The honourable member asks where we get our money from. He is trying to impress on this Parliament that we get our money from some place where we should not get it. 
I am prepared to answer the question. 
No. Will you allow me to answer the question,  Mr Chairman?  The Country Party gets its funds from subscriptions from members of the Country Party. That is where the money comes from. Just give me time for half a dozen sentences. I want to say- 
I have been here a long time and I can wait until the crowds stop interjecting. Finally I want to impress on honourable members the point that it apparently makes a difference when someone says something against the Labor Opposition, but it does not matter if the Labor Opposition says the same kind of thing against the Country Party. I said at the start that I agree with what has been said by the honourable member for Dawson about certain kinds of statement made under parliamentary privilege, and that the law should be changed. But I have also said that even the Mother of parliaments has this law of privilege, and therefore it is a very difficult thing to overcome. 1 regret it. 
As other honourable members wish to speak in this debate 1 will just state one or two salient facts and then they will have an opportunity. 1 have listened very carefully to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who spoke about road safety. The excise on petrol has nothing to do with the grant under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. He was far off the track. The money collected goes into the Consolidated Revenue fund and it is from Consolidated Revenue - not specifically from the petrol excise or tax - that money is allocated for all kinds of things. The honourable memeber suggested that we should pay more tax to advertise certain aspects in connection with cigarettes and more tax on petrol to provide for better roads. 1 think he suggested 3 cents. We do not want more taxes. We want fewer taxes, especially for the motorist. I travel long distances by car as I am here in Canberra for about 6 months of the year. I do over 25,000 miles every year in my private car. That can be proved by looking at the speedometer and by going to my service stations. Therefore I notice very carefully what is happening. 1 think that a dual road from Brisbane to Melbourne would be very good. The amount it would cost would be immense. It is a strange fact that a lot of accidents, including head-on collisions, happen on good, straight roads. One of the strangest things that has been happening in Victoria is that they have had a police blitz on motorists.  H  is advertised all over the country days and perhaps weeks before that on a certain weekend there will be a police blitz. Of course, everybody is very careful at that time. If someone travels with me to my home from Melbourne on a Friday and back on a Monday - 165 miles each way - I will show them where accidents could quite easily happen if it were not for sheer luck. I am not saying that I do everything right, because one can get into an accident very easily. The man who thinks he cannot get into an accident at all is far too confident. 
One honourable member referred to the Australian Country Party 20 years ago, and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  mentioned 50 years ago, so I can go back to about 1947. About that time I moved the adjournment of this House seeking more money from petrol tax - which was applicable to the roads at that time - would be made available. The  speaker  who followed me was the Prime Minister of the time,  Mr Chifley.  He was followed by a later Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, Then what they called the lord high executioner came in and moved the gag. That is what they thought about it. At that stage the Government of the day kept nearly three-quarters of the money collected in petrol tax in Consolidated Revenue, as Hansard will show. The Government allocated just over a quarter of the amount collected for roads. This shows how things have changed, but there is no good argument to be had out of what happened years ago. The Labor Party has always been the Labor Party, and the Country Party and the Liberal Party do not change very much as the years go by. Conditions may change but the parties do not. They have certain objectives towards which they lean. All this talk about road safety must be looked at very carefully. 
We must not let the people know when there is to be a police blitz. There was  a  crime blitz on  a  recent weekend and all the criminals probably said: 'We had better keep quiet for the time being. We will start again when it's over.' I have never heard anything as ridiculous as that. Let me refer now to general tariffs. I understand that there is to be  a  general inquiry into tariffs. I am pleased about this and I hope it will be hurried up and that we have it quickly, because it is urgently needed. I. representing a large primary producing area, feel that primary industry should receive the same consideration as secondry industry. There is no doubt that at the present time the cities are more or less booming. When compared with the rural areas the difference between the two is remarkable. After all. how could you have students marching everywhere, moratoriums and people kicking up noises if they had to earn their living? These things do not happen in the country. You do not get people marching through the streets in the country because at the present time there are very acute financial problems in the country areas and people have to watch every penny. 
The point I want to make is that the Labor Opposition cries out if some secondary industry makes a big profit that that profit is completely wrong and should not have happened at all. But if the Opposition analyses it, it certainly never speaks against the cause of profit. Efficiency plays a big part in profits but protection plays a bigger part. When manufacturers make a very large profit Labor calls out against the profits but never against the reason for them, which is the high tariff protection. The simple reason for this is .that the moment the manufacturer makes a big profit the unions go to the Arbitration Commission for a better award and they generally get it, because the Arbitration Commission is said to apply better award conditions and wages to those industries that can pay. Have honourable members noticed that they are never primary industries? 
When the industry makes a profit and the employees receive their award improvement, that flows on to other industries. This is one of the big causes of inflation in this country. Let no-one say that I am advocating a big reduction in tariffs. I am not saying that at all, because I know that an immediate prohibition of tariffs, or a big cut in them, would hit the wage earner and the primary producer the hardest. Therefore 1 do not advocate that. But I do advocate that we must not have tariff protection gone mad. Those big industries in the cities that are making so much profit against which Labor calls out, do not require the protection that they are being given. Therefore I think that this inquiry is necessary and overdue. What happens when wages rise in the way I have just mentioned? The manufacturers and the retailers merely change their price tags. Of course, the primary producer cannot do that. But the strange thing is that the very people that big secondary industries are protected against, the low standard of living countries which are consequently low wage countries, are largely the countries to which the primary producer has to sell his exportable products. I believe that where efficiency can take the place of protection this should be done and, as far as I am concerned, the sooner the inquiry is completed the better it will be for Australia. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembld. The humble petition of residents of Swan Hill respectfully showeth: 
That they are deeply concerned about the plight of the East Pakistani refugees in India. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray, that the Government will immediately increase aid to $l0m, for Pakistani refugee relief. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I had intended this morning to deal wilh just 2 questions that I had asked in the House and enlarge on them. However, on picking up today's issue of the Melbourne Sun' 1 read the headlines in large letters: Biscuits, cakes to rise 10 per cent. Pie is safe*. The humble pie is safe. The article states: 
Cakes, biscuits and most pastry goods will be up to 10 per cent dearer in Victoria in the new year. 
From yesterday, the price of wheat went up, lifting the cost of flour by $4 a ton. 
From reading this article it would appear that because the price of wheat has been increased by $4 a ton, the price of cakes, etc., will have to be increased by 10 per cent. Further on in the article, in small type, reference is made to one or two other alleged reasons why the price of cakes, etc., will have to be increased. It states: 
And a wage rise in November went through the whole gamut. 
What I point out, and what 1 grieve about in this grievance day debate, is that the heading and the sub-heading, which are in rather large print, to this article place the whole blame for the increase in the price of cakes, etc., on primary industry. This is quite wrong. 1 wish that the Melbourne Press would give more publicity to what members of the Australian Country Party and other members who represent country areas in this House say regarding primary industry. On a number of occasions I have found that something I have advocated in this House, which was for the benefit of rural areas and not in any way for the benefit of the other areas - the city interests - has not had a chance of receiving publicity in the metropolitan Press. 
Because my time is very limited, I move on very quickly to deal with a question which 1 asked the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  on 14th September last. It was as follows: 
Does he recall that last night in the House I advocated that all rural telephone subscribers bc granted the privilege of local call charge, where at present it does not apply . . .' - (Quorum formed.) It is easy to see that the honourable member for Hindmarsh is not in sympathy with the case I am putting on behalf of primary industry and not city interests. As he represents interests in the city electorate of Hindmarsh in South Australia, he is on the side of those who support the conglomeration of population in metropolitan areas. When I referred to city interests one could see from the look on his face that he was infuriated, so he rose and called for a quorum in order to stop me from speaking further. I shall continue to quote the question which 1 asked the Postmaster-General. It continued: 
. to their nearest centre where medical and general facilities are available . . . Does he know that this would give them only a fraction of the privilege now enjoyed by city subscribers in regard to telephonic communication? 
I then asked the Postmaster-General whether he would look into the matter. He said that in some cases a distance of 100 miles would be involved. But the longer the distance the more urgent it is for people to obtain medical assistance from the nearest town. Therefore, it is not too much to ask that calls which are made to the nearest town in which a doctor is situated should be charged at the local call rates and not trunk line rates. I believe that this is one of the things that should be done. We are asking to have all sorts of concessions regarding telephone services in order to provide the same sort of service throughout Australia. Perhaps this is a good thing, but the question to which 1 have referred is urgent. If this privilege of being able to call a doctor at the local call charge were extended to rural areas it would give people in isolated areas a feeling of some security. I am not referring to people in areas such as the area in the city of Adelaide in which the honourable member for Hindmarsh lives. Dear rae, if his telephone was not working he would have to walk only a few hundred yards down the street to a public telephone. He has the audacity to try to stop me from putting this case for the country districts and for the country residents of Victoria and Australia. 
The other matter I want to raise in the few moments I have left relates to a question which I asked the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  regarding the appointment of 3 efficient and accredited salesmen of high integrity to move around the world selling our goods. They could take samples of our products with them if necessary. It was pointed out that our trade posts are doing this job. But we want some liaison between them. No business undertaking in Australia would last very long if it did not have efficient and accredited salesmen of high integrity. What is right for big business or small business is also right for the nation. I believe that if we had a man travelling around the world he would be able to find out what markets were available for Australian goods. He could carry small samples of our products, if he wished, to show to people overseas. He could get the trade posts working together instead of in isolation. 
The fact that we have men at these trade posts does not mean that they are good salesmen. I have often complained that many of these men have been appointed because of their academic qualifications. When I refer to efficient and accredited salesmen, I am referring to men who know Australia, the products we sell and the quality of those products, and who could speak on them. They could call meetings in various areas to demonstrate the products and to make sales. I think that this should be done. Of course, the Minister in replying to my question - and I have asked a similar question on two or three occasions - said that the trade posts have very efficient people who are doing a wonderful job. In the final part of his answer he said: 
It is a job for business itself to go out and try to sell, given all the support, help and advice that can be given from the Trade Commissioner Service. 
We know that the Trade Commissioner Service provides valuable assistance to businessmen who are trying to sell their goods. But the position would be improved if the Government appointed representatives to sell our goods overseas. They could get all the information from the trade posts, put it together and then come to the conclusion that in certain countries there was a market for wool, wheat, dried fruits or the many other products which we send overseas. He could go directly to those countries in which there were likely buyers for some of our products. One of these 3 salesmen - if it was desired, only one would need to be appointed in the beginning - could go directly to a likely country, meet the representatives of the country and endeavour to make sales. How long does it take trade posts to realise that there is a market in some country? Perhaps there is no trade post in that country. Therefore a lot of time is lost. We have to take efficient and prompt action if we are to sell our goods. I believe that there are markets which we should exploit in the way I have mentioned. I also believe that we could make many sales which would be to the benefit not only of primary producers - I suppose we would be selling mainly primary products, although we could also sell secondary industry products - but also of the Commonwealth of Australia generally. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement a scheme for the stabilisation of returns to dried vine fruit growers for a period of 5 years com- mencing with the 1971 crop. 
As approximately 70 per cent of the Australian dried vine fruit pack is grown in the Mallee electorate, which I represent. 1 
I am delighted that this Bill is before the House. I am also delighted that the Opposition is not opposing it. I believe that this Bill is necessary for the dried fruits industry. On so many occasions I have said that any primary industry which is not stabilised is out of touch with reality. I believe that the dried fruits industry is one of the most precarious primary industries. 
So many things happen. The dried fruits industry has to put up with frost, hail, rain, black spot and vinegar fly, and it has to have good drying weather to dry the fruit. By the time one gets the fruit into the packing shed it has had to overcome so many difficulties that one is fortunate to get it in in good condition. Once it is in the packing shed the world price can fluctuate adversely very suddenly. That is why stabilisation is so necessary for this industry. The industry was stabilised from 1964 to 1968 and I had the pleasure in 1964 of travelling through Sunraysia and other places with the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  who was then the Minister for Primary Industry. He spoke with the growers who at that stage voted in favour of the stabilisation scheme. We then had another referendum in March 1970, the previous stabilisation scheme having expired in 1968. Of 3,745 growers of sultanas, raisins and currants who registered to vote, only 2,437 voted. Of these, 1,578 voted yes and 859 voted no. Of those voting, 65 per cent favoured the plan, but since the criterion for acceptance of the plan was that there should be a majority of those eligible to vote in favour of it and because those who voted yes represented only 42 per cent of all eligible voters, no mandate for the plan was given to the Government. Had the plan been approved it would have had retrospective application to embrace the 1969 season and there would have been continuity of the stabilisation of this important industry. But as things worked out, the industry was not stabilised for the 1969 crop. 
Just recently another stabilisation vote has been taken and early in August this year over 350 growers from Sunraysia and the Riverland area heard the Minister for Primary Industry, whom I invited to visit Mildura, explain that the plan was the best arrangement within the funds available. The Minister urged all growers eligible to vote at the referendum on the plan. The growers co-operated and the 1971 referendum on a 5-year stabilisation plan commencing with the 1971 crop showed the degree of rank and file support. Of the 5,004 growers enrolled, 4,616 or 92 per cent cast their votes and of this number 4,560 or 98 per cent voted in favour of the scheme offered by the Government. Honourable members will notice that the number of growers registered to vote increased tremendously. Due to factors such as the threat of the collapse of the International Sultana Agreement, the growers decided that they wanted stabilisation although it had been rejected not so very long before. The vote in favour of the scheme was such a good one that the Government is now implementing the scheme. The dried fruits industry is very pleased with the explanations of the Bill and with the general conditions contained in it. As the hour is late, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard of part of an article setting out the main points of the plan and headed Best Arrangement for Dried Fruits', and 2 paragraphs of an article by  Mr W.  R. Denbow, promotion officer for the Murray Valley Development League, from the Murray Valley Development League journal, the 'Riverlander'. 
I want to pay a compliment to the Australian Dried Fruits Association and all those people who are dedicated to getting the best possible deal for the dried fruits industry. They have come to Canberra on many occasions over the years and consulted the Minister for Primary Industry and other Ministers also on this subject. I believe they have done a very good job for the industry. 
I would like to recite some of the history of Sunraysia and Robinvale, the 2 places where most of the vine fruits are grown in Australia. The Chaffey brothers came to Mildura from the United States of America and started an irrigation scheme. They were greatly assisted by  Mr Alfred  Deakin who had great faith in irrigation. Soldiers who returned from the 1914-18 war went to the area and helped to deve lop it and settled in Sunraysia which became the most successful soldier settlement primary industry scheme in Australia. Much the same thing happened after the Second World War when there were plantings at Robinvale which is now a thriving vine fruit centre. 
Not much more can be said about this Bill. The Opposition favours it. I am delighted with it. The Government saw fit to bring it forward and I hope it has a swift passage through the House and that the dried vine fruit growers will get great benefit from it. 
This industry has been hit probably harder than any other industry and it should be assisted at every opportunity. On 9th February next I will have represented that area for 26 years and I realise the need for the best possible legislation to assist it. On one occasion after heavy rain had done a lot of damage the Government granted 300,000 to the industry which helped it a lot at that time. That does not seem to be a lot of money now but that was a good few years ago; from memory it was about 1956. The industry requires a lot of work. In the main, the blocks are from 16 acres to 24 acres. There are some larger blocks but they are not big assets such as the wheat and wool farms were in the past. I support the Bill and hope that by it the dried fruit growers will gain a new prosperity which is urgently needed in their industry. 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry know that the Melbourne Sun' on the 2nd instant carried a headline reading 'Cakes, biscuits and most pastry goods will be up to 10 per cent dearer in Victoria in the New Year' and then a subheading 
1 will not keep the House very long. I want to state just one or two salient facts that 1 really know. First of all let me recount what happened. As the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  said, he was speaking when the quorum was called. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  seems to be embarrassed at having called the quorum. 1 can tell honourable members that he was very reluctant to call it. I was in the very spot that I am in now and I know everything that happened. The honourable member was being urged by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  to call the quorum. He did not want to call it. 1 intervened to say something that in fact 1 should noi have said: 'Calling a quorum against the right honourable member for Fisher is one of the lowest things in humanity that you can do.' That is what I said, because he was making a speech and had just about a minute at the most to go when the quorum was called. 
The light was on and he had a very short time to go. 1 want to point out how the Opposition and the people who are supporting the amendment are approaching the matter. First of all the honourable member for Kingston is embarrassed by a photograph.  His  whole speech was about this. He did not look quite as nice as he would like to look. He had been on a long trip, and he was not looking too well. This is how he appreciated it. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  spoke a lot of malice. One cannot judge anything if one has malice. When Abraham Lincoln was up against a certain proposition he said: 'With malice towards none'. Most of the speech made by the honourable member for Lalor referred to certain malice which he thought the journalist had towards the Australian Labor Party. 
He said that, lt is in Hansard and the honourable member can read it there. I believe that, from th( beginning of the evidence which was given by Alan Reid when he came before the Committee, at no stage did he claim that he saw anyone walk out. He did not claim that at all. In fact, he said quite clearly: 'I was not in the Press gallery. When 1 beard a commotion outside I went down into the gallery which is opposite this chamber'. He went there when he heard the commotion. From what he heard there he formed the opinion that certain members of this Parliament had walked out. That is what he claimed. He made a mistake. He was wrong. After all, if we were to penalise everybody who made a mistake in this House we would be in a very funny way. Because the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has walked in I am reminded that tonight he said: "The honour able member for Mallee is seldom in his place', knowing all the time that my record is a world record. 
I ask the honourable member not to try to be funny. He needs to wake up. He does not understand these matters. The honourable member for Grayndler knows these things and because of that 1 am always a thorn in his flesh, as he shows at every opportunity. So far as 1 am concerned I have been consistent while on the Committee. If honourable members read how I voted and what I said they can do nothing but agree with this. The simple reason for my attitude is that I thought the case had been blown up tremendously, but not because of the importance that the Committee had put upon it. What really happened was that we came to a decision. Honourable members have already been told this. On 26th and 27th October the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was not at the Committee. He did not turn up. 1 pay a tribute to the  Chairman  of the Committee who did everything possible to call meetings when he thought that members would be present. He went out of his way to do that. 
It is a strange thing but this discussion tonight and the occurrence which -we a&gt;e discussing concerns two quorums, lt concerns the occasion on which a quorum was not present when called and it concerns the quorum which was present when the Committee made its first decision. It is noi as if WC did not have a quorum in- the Committee. We had a quorum and we made a decision. On 3rd November when the Leader of the Opposition came back to the Committee after being absent on 26th and 27th October he moved a recommittal of the whole affair. Of course that motion w.is carried. I have been consistent right through in the attitude I have adopted. What was decided by the quorum on 3rd November is set out very- clearly. The report states. 
That this Committee finds that the article  published  in the 'Daily Telegraph' of Friday, 27th August 1971, docs not constitute a breach of privilege or contempt of the House of Representatives - be recommitted for consideration. 
I voted that the matter did not constitute a breach of privilege or contempt of the 
House of Representatives. After the recommittal every vote which I made in that Committee led to the same conclusion. My opinion was the same right through. I am of the opinion that the journalist, Alan Reid, made an incorrect statement. I know - and I am prepared to say that 1 know - that no one walked out of the House. I know that for 2 reasons. The first reason is that every person who came before the Committee said in evidence that he did not see anyone walk out of the House. From where I sit in this chamber I was able to see what happened and I personally know that no-one walked out of this House. The journalist, Alan Reid, made a mistake. I believe he was being very frank when he said before the Committee that he did not see anyone walk out of the House. He was not here to see anyone walk out; so how could he say he saw someone walk out of the House? But, of course, he did no say that. When he left the Press gallery, the one opposite where I sit, he heard things which led him to believe that there had been a walk-out. This was incorrect. Of course a lot of us sometimes make incorrect statements. I could name dozens of times when incorrect statements have' been made, but they are not made with malice. Mistakes are made quite honestly by members. I believe this is what happened in this case. Therefore I am asking the members of this House to vote for the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  I believe that this motion gives justice and is in the best interests of the dignity of this House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Cope's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior, who administers the Electoral Act. With a view to giving non-metropolitan Australia an opportunity to develop, will the Minister, when the next redistribution of Federal electorates is being made, endeavour to have the permissible 20 per cent over and 20 per cent under the quota fully implemented in favour of rural areas? The Minister will realise that this is provided for in the Electoral Act. In other words, will he endeavour to have decentralisation of political representation adopted? 
The 
Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made a statement in this House on 2nd December relating to relief for non-metropolitan unemployment. At the end of his statement he said: 
  Designed as it is to meet the emerging social and economic problem of unemployment in nonmetropolitan areas, the scheme will I believe be warmly welcomed by the House and by the community at large. 
I support those remarks because this proposal has been warmly welcomed in rural areas. Anyone with a national outlook will give a warm reception to a proposal such as this which will give assistance to rural people. I believe that honourable members should not clutter up the consideration of this matter by speaking about unemployment in metropolitan areas. Yet this is exacily what the Opposition is doing; this is exactly what the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  is doing. The amendment to the motion 'That the House take note of the paper' commences with the words: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and urges the Government to initiate immediate discussions with the States. . . . 
How far is he out of touch with what goes on in this country? 
-He is hopelessly out of touch. Every time the Government brings something forward a member of the Labor Party nearly always moves that all words after 'that' in the motion 'That the House take note of the paper' be omitted and that certain words be inserted in their place. It does not matter what the Government puts up, although members of the Labor Party had not thought of a proposal before, they think it should be improved. Legislation which was introduced to enable the Commonwealth to make grants for homes for the aged is a perfect example of what I am saying. No Labor government has ever thought of giving grants of a 1 for 1 or a dollar for dollar basis, or a $2 for $1 basis as it is now, for homes for the aged. But the moment the Government introduced the scheme Labor wanted the grants to be increased and increased. If the Labor Party had been in power it would not have thought of this scheme. 
I would like to show bow far the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is out of touch with his amendment. The fact of the matter is that the meeting of Commonwealth and Stale officials proposed in the Prime Ministers statement was requested by letters to the Premiers on 1st December, the day before the Prime Minister made the statement. This meeting was held in Canberra yesterday. However, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in his amendment is advocating such a meeting. 1 repeat that the meeting was held yesterday and decided to take certain action. The States are willing, I understand, to cooperate to the fullest extent in regard to using the money that has been made available to overcome, as much as possible, unemployment in rural areas. It is a strange thing that a man who is the Deputy Leader of an Opposition does not keep up to date with events and know what is happening. I put it very definitely that members of the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party - perhaps I should say the coalition Government in order to include both Parties - are delighted with the statement. Honourable members who sit behind me and other honourable members who represent rural areas are delighted because, after all, no Country Party man in a State Parliament or the Federal Parliament represents a city or metropolitan constituency. We all represent rural constituencies. Therefore, this statement has been welcomed very warmly indeed. I hope that it will give the best possible deal to people who are unemployed in country areas. 
The measures outlined in the statement will help to alleviate unemployment in city areas because if we can stop country workers going to the cities there will be more jobs for those people who love to live in the cities. Many people are attracted to the cities by the bright lights. I know of many people who are attracted to cities because of the better amenities offered by them. Many a man in the country says that he has to get work for his boys and girls somewhere and that be will go to a city because of the greater opportunities offered there. Most cities are what we call spoon fed and the country has had to battle for itself over many many years. 
The Labor Party immediately finds fault with any little thing like this that is done for people in country areas. Members of the Opposition cast suspicion on such a proposal. They ask when the country areas will get the money. At the discussion held yesterday to which I have referred, and which evidently was not known to members of the Opposition and definitely was not known to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, the position was set out and clarified and generally speaking it is likely that the scheme will be operating at a very early date. As a matter of fact, the scheme could be in operation before Christmas. It is possible that some money will be made available before then, I suggest especially through local government. 
It has been said that nothing will be done until the end of the financial year. What greater thing could one do to try to damn the whole scheme than to make this sort of statement? It is just ridiculous when an honourable member comes into the House and makes such statements about this great country that has depended so much in the past on its rural development and its rural products. The secondary industries buy their raw materials with money chiefly derived from the sale of primary products overseas. I refer here to our exports of wheat, wool, dried fruit and other primary products of the soil that build up our balance of payments and our overseas reserves. This money comes back in the form of goods and raw materials without which secondary industry could not operate successfully. Therefore the Government has shown a national outlook in bringing a statement like this forward for the good of the whole community. After all. Australia is still so very, very dependent on its primary industries. 
I want to say something about how this money is to be spent. We should be able to spend it to a dual advantage. Firstly, 1 think that the money should be used to relieve unemployment. To be unemployed is one of the most distressing things that can happen to a man, especially if he has a family. Therefore, under this measure we should be able to give him some relief and some employment. But I believe it would be desirable if we could employ him in such a way that a dual advantage can be gained. For instance, men could be employed in building up tourist facilities and for local government projects. This money should be used as much as possible, where appropriate, on the pipelining of water.  1  have said often in this House that in the electorate of Mallee, which I represent, more than 90 per cent of the water which goes from the reservoirs or the water storages to the consumers is lost through seepage and evaporation and, therefore, pipelining must come. It will come sooner or later. If water is pipelined from all our reservoirs it would be equal to duplicating the reservoirs. 
I have said many times that the priorities that I have proposed should be accepted. The first priority is defence; because what is the good of having anything in this country - a democratic government or parliament - if it cannot be protected? The second priority which I put forward is primary industry with which is associated water conservation in many cases. These are the definitive priorities that I. have suggested, but as soon as I have done so, someone has called out: What about education, social services, hospitalisation and all these benefits?' It is from the products of the soil that much of the money comes from with which these things can be purchased and from which the Government can give people who are unable to fend for themselves a better deal. Therefore. I believe that the priorities I have put forward are in the best interests of this nation. The pipelining of water is a definite proposition for attention. 

 - Mr Speaker, I shall just wait until things calm down a little. 
I do not want to be unduly harsh on the honourable member for Riverina but this statement has sent him into a kind of a whirl because he knows very well that it will be well accepted in the Riverina where he has long been forecasting doom despite the assistance provided by this Government. 
lt is a strange thing that whenever I start to speak and attempt to advocate things for the country districts that I admire so much I am interrupted by the honourable members for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  Sydney  (Mr Cope)  who is sitting in front of me, or Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Honourable members can see how they are sitting here like hawks. 
The honourable member suggests that for some considerable time 1 have not referred to the amendment. I have been speaking for only 10 minutes. 
But 1 have referred to it. I have pointed out that the meeting between the States and the Commonwealth that is sought by the amendment took place yesterday. Surely the honourable member for Riverina remembers me saying that. Therefore, the amendment is out of order; it is too late; the point is over because the meeting has taken place. It was decided at that meeting to do certain things in the best possible interests of this country. I believe that the proposals outlined in the statement will give great succour to the people in the country and will provide employment. I know that big machinery has caused a lot of unemployment in the past in rural areas because not so many people are required. But our country towns are rural . areas. In those towns, of course, conditions have not been very good and I believe that money spent in the right direction in country towns will assist considerably in the general outlook. I heard recently of a man who was talking about how much he liked the country. He lived in the city and someone asked him: Why do you not live in the country?' He said: 'I am living in the city so that I can make enough money for when I retire to enable me to live in the country'. This is the whole problem; the economic conditions are so much better in the cities. But I think it was Henry Lawson who said: 
There is Huie real pleasure in the city where I am - 
There's a  swarry  round the corner with its mockery and its sham; 
think it would do people good to get out into the country. If we can build up our primary industries and the nation we will bc able to purchase many things. I mention in passing a factor that can help the country areas. What could help the country most is related to a question I asked this morning, namely, that when a redistribution of Federal electorates is proposed the 20 per cent over or 20 per cent under of the quota be implemented. After all, someone said that it does not matter how big an electorate is; it is what the people do in it.  Mr Speaker,  you, perhaps better than anyone, would know that nothing counts much but votes. A person can advocate anything he likes but it is the vote that determines a matter. My friend the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr Tames)  would agree with that. 
The honourable member agrees with that because it is the vote that counts. It is the vote that first of all puts a man into Parliament and afterwards, when he gets into Parliament, he soon finds out that the vote determines whether he will get something implemented. In his statement, the Prime Minister said: 
I may mention also that we would envisage the Department of Labour and National Service being closely associated with the scheme at the ground roots level. 
Of course, in this regard, before this statement was made,  Mr Allen,  who is the head of the Department of Labour and National Service, said that he envisaged that there would not be much trouble in the employment of school leavers this year. He said that the position was well in hand and he believed that there would be no disruption of employment to any extent. This whole subject calls for great cooperation. We have had the Prime Minister's statement and yesterday there was a meeting of State and Commonwealth representatives in regard to it. But, the harsh note that comes into this is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  did not know about yesterday's meeting. 
The honourable member for Riverina says that I did not tell him. I am not in the habit of going around telling him things he should know. He should find out. He is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
Although I am aware that some statements have been made on this subject, I ask the Minister for National Development: What is the current official position in regard to the commencement of the building of the proposed Dartmouth Dam? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. In certain quarters it is thought that recent statements or speeches by the Minister may indicate that he is perhaps a shade more favourably inclined towards marihuana. I therefore ask: Is he still adamant in his opposition to the legalising of this drug? 
I want to put on record the fact that I greatly regret that a speech such as the one we have just heard from the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  should be made in this House. I have been here for many years and I have not heard a speech like that made before. Let us hope that we will never hear its like again. 

 - -Mr Deputy Speaker, you will notice that when the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  commenced his speech he criticised the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  saying that the honourable member had just given his usual speech on this subject. But straight away the honourable member for Grayndler gave his usual speech, one which I could pretty well make myself from memory of the speeches the honourable member has made over the years, with the exception of the letters and papers from which he quoted. He would have to hand me those letters and newspapers. When I make a speech on these sorts or subjects I do not refer to a whole lot of letters written by other people. Goodness knows where the letters came from and what kind of a man it was that wrote them. We do not know whether he is a bright man as certain people in this House are said to be or whether his opinion on this subject of tariffs is sound, indifferent or poor. I have never professed to have a great knowledge of tariffs. When honourable members rise in this House I think it is up to them to say what they think about the present position on subjects such as tariffs and then to let the people in this Parliament decide whether they are right or wrong. I will certainly be wrong as far as the honourable member for Grayndler is concerned for the simple reason that he never speaks about primary industry in any other way but- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)There is no substance in the point of order. 
I can find that very point of order in the Hansard record taken on 4 occasions during the last 3 years, when I have been speaking and adopting an attitude that was quite kindly to the honourable member. If I were not so kind to him I would say that he came from some place the name of which 1 cannot pronounce- 
Currabubula, but in his very early youth he decided that things were too rough there in primary industry and he drifted to the city. He is one of the first examples of centralisation. When he got to the city he found that things were pretty tough there, too. I think he got a job but I am not too sure what it was. Perhaps it could have been as an organiser for the unions. I do not know but that is what has been whispered to me. I do not want to speak about the honourable member for Grayndler. We have both taken part in debates over many years on different subjects in this House, 
In the whole of his speech the honourable member for Grayndler did not speak about primary industry. I represent one of the greatest primary producing electorates in Australia, therefore I -think that we must have a spokesman for primary industry. I will quote what the honourable member for Grayndler said; I wrote it down as he said it. It is a wonder that the honourable member is not interjecting and saying: The honourable member for Mallee is reading his speech'. It is a wonder he does not say this. He said that the workers have only their labour to sell. What does anybody else in Australia have to sell but their labour? The man on the land - the primary producer - sells what he produces through his labour. What does the businessman do?  His  is a different kind of labour but he may be an efficient businessman and he sells the product of his brainwork. People sell according to their station of life and, of course, some of them come from poor families and become some of the greatest citizens of this country and do so much for the community. Others from prosperous and rich families do nothing at all for Australia. We are a great democracy. 
Let us examine what is happening between secondary industry and primary industry. Honourable members may recall that the first day that  Mr Gorton  was in this House as Prime Minister, I drew his attention at question dme to the widening of the gap between primary industry and secondary industry and asked whether he would try to close it. I gave him 2 alternatives. One was to reduce tariffs in certain instances and the other was to give price support to exports of primary industries. I do not want anybody in this House or elsewhere to say that I am against tariffs, but I am against excessive tariffs. If ever there is a Press report that a company has made a large profit, members of the Australian Labor Party make great play of the fact that a high profit has been made and say that it is completely wrong in every way. However, they never speak about what has caused the high profit. I know that, to some extent, it may be efficiency but I know also that it may be what I have described as tariff protection gone mad, because this does occur in certain industries. Why does the Labor Party not mention this? People do not even think these things out for the simple reason that it suits Labor, because if some industry is highly or excessively protected., the unions immediately get busy and lodge with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission a claim for a rise in the wages of the men who are working in that industry. The Arbitration Commission then will probably award the employees an increase according to what the industry can afford to pay. The industry which has a tremendous tariff protection and is making big profits can pay handsomely. However, honourable members will notice that this never occurs in primary industry. Even the honourable member for Grayndler would notice that. 
The first thing that happens after an increase in wages is granted is that there occurs what has become known as the flow on. A certain industry makes a big profit because of the protective tariff and the Arbitration Commission says that the industry can afford to pay the increase in wages and there is then a flow on of that award to all kinds of secondary industries. Another flow on occurs when higher wages bring higher costs, which flow on to primary industry. Everybody knows that. Therefore, in Australia today there are 2 completely different aspects in the working of secondary industry and of primary industry. The man in primary industry may put in a crop of, say, wheat and he does not know whether he will get 12 bags to the acre, 5 bags to the acre or whether there will be a complete drought and he will get nothing. But in the case of a highly protected or even a reasonably protected secondary industry the people concerned know that they can manufacture whatever the article is and have every chance of selling it because of the protective tariff. This is what really happens. What are the industries in Australia protected from? They must be protected from something which could be adverse to them. While on this subject, I believe that the home market is the best market for primary industry, but there is not enough of it because after all, only a small proportion of Australian wheat and only about 12i per cent or less of Australian wool is purchased for Australian consumption. The flow on means that secondary industry is protected from low standard of living countries with a low wage level that could manufacture many of the secondary industry goods that we manufacture and sell them in Australia to the detriment of our manufacturers. I do not believe that our industries should be undersold. I think that we must protect the people engaged in secondary industry in Australia. However, the reverse operates in primary industry because primary industry must sell its surplus. Of course, only a small percentage of the bulk of production is consumed by the home market and Australia must sell its surplus to the low standard of living countries from which our secondary industry is protected. This is the circle that operates. The other countries cannot afford to pay the prices required because of the Australian standard of living. 
In talking about countries pricing themselves out of world markets, honourable members would know that Australia has priced itself out of world markets. One only has to look at secondary industry exports to realise this. It was stated by someone from this side of the House, that we do not now ride on the sheep's back. That does not mean just the sheep, metaphorically speaking; it means all sorts of primary industries. Let us not forget that primary industry built this nation and although there has been a slight recession in primary industry, it is very likely that we will again be largely dependent upon primary industry before very long. What about the great Snowy Mountains scheme? Why do not members of the Labor Party say: 'Labor started that project'? 
Let honourable members have a look at the Hansard record for the 2 years or 18 months before the Labor Party started this project. I stood in this very House urging the Labor Government to do something about it. 
 First of all. I want to say one or two things with regard to the speech made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson^. In this Committee stage the honourable member for Lalor (Dr J. F. Cairns)  dealt with the different points that had been made in the second reading speech. To some extent I want to deal with that. The honourable member for Dawson made a special feature of saying that he did not agree with the proposition that men out of employment and wanting employment had to go here, there and everywhere round the country seeking work. He said that even if they did get employment :t should be nearer their permanent location. I point out to him that the last Labor Prime Minister in this Parliament, the right honourable Ben Chifley, made a feature of this very point. It is recorded in Hansard that he said that when the employment position is somewhat difficult men have to move about to get work; they cannot expect to stay in one place. He said that if work was not available in the area where formerly they had employment they had to move about and get work where it was available. This is not something I have conjured up. If any honourable member likes to challenge it I can find exactly where this statement appears in Hansard and when  Mr Chifley  said it. I recollect the statement quite clearly. 
Following on from that the honourable member for Dawson said that planning is the great thing. I have previously dealt with the effect of tariffs on primary industry and secondary industry, ana" at the beginning of this debate I pointed out bow the gap has been widening between primary and secondary industries. Honourable members will recall that I said recently that the only thing that we can do is either to reduce tariffs where they are too high or to give price support to the export of our surplus primary production. Planning is all right in relation to tariffs for secondary industry. As I have pointed out on numerous occasions in this chamber - it is obvious that when some subjects are debated there must be repetition - the whole economic structure of a country does not change overnight or perhaps within two or three years, and in secondary industry it is pretty well known how many pairs of shoes can be sold or what the market prospects are for certain produce of secondary industry. But the position is completely different with primary industry. How would the honourable member for Dawson plan tariffs for primary industry? A whole variety of produce can be planted, but if a drought occurs the farmers do not get anything. This is the sorry situation that can happen. Secondary industry virtually is regimented, but this is not so of primary industry. The situation would be different if a farmer could turn on the rain when he wanted it, but this cannot be done. 
I believe there should be continuing investigations into our tariff taws and into the tariffs which are imposed to assist Australian industries. The moment that a tariff becomes too high - I did not want to repeat this, but 1 feel that I must - the firm that enjoys this high tariff protection begins to make an extremely high profit. When this high profit is publicised in the Press the trade unions immediately file a claim for higher wages for employees in that industry and the matter is determined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The unions argue that the industry can afford to pay higher wages and, of course, this is so. As soon as increased wages are granted there is a flow on to other industries and immediately we get the real enemy of the worker and of all Australians - inflation. Inflation is caused to some extent by high tariff protection. There is no doubt about this. Inflation will result in more unemployment than will reducing some tariffs which are too high. I do not want it thought for one moment that I am a free trader arguing that we should not have tariff protections at all. Members of the Country Party have maintained always that the best market for primary products is the home market. It has been said also by my colleagues that the home market is not large enough to consume Australia's primary production and therefore much of it has to be exported. 
It is exported chiefly to low standard of living countries which cannot afford to pay the price necessary to maintain Australia's economic standards. If the primary producer could sell his goods in Australia he would not want any assistance, any tariff protection or any price support, but he cannot sell all his goods here because Australia has only a limited market for primary products. 
Let us consider further the question of high tariffs. If a farmer gets, say $10,000 from a crop and he goes overseas to purchase certain equipment for his farm, on his return he finds that the goods on which he has spent the $10,000  -  forget about the cost of his trip - will cost him $17,000 or more after he pays customs duty on them. In other words, he will spend not only what he has earned from his farm but a whole lot more because of tariffs. This is the position today, and that is why members of the Country Party, in our little corner of this chamber, constantly fight for primary industry, which we believe is at a great disadvantage. We do not believe in free trade, but everybody knows that in some cases tariffs have gone mad and are too high. Tariffs should be examined in the finest detail, and after such examination there should be some action. If tariffs were reduced, that would not create unemployment, because most industries would still be able to operate profitably. Exceedingly high profits would not be made by industry and, consequently, there would not be such large wage increases granted by the Arbitration Commission which would flow on to other industries, resulting in inflation. When prices rise, retailers and manufacturers change their price tags, as has been mentioned during this debate, but what can the primary producer do? He cannot change his price tag when selling wheat for instance to low standard of living countries against whose products protection is afforded to Australian industry so that such countries cannot - I hope that they never will be able to - send goods here at a price at which they would undersell our secondary industries. If such countries were able to do this it would be a calamity. 
Someone might say that I am against protection, but nothing could be so untrue. I believe in protection, but surely no member of the Labor Party will suggest that no industry in Australia is over-protected. 
The honourable member asks which industries are over-protected. This is a subject on which I want information. That is why I suggest that there should be continual investigations into tariffs to see what can be done about industries that are over-protected. Over-protection makes for inefficiency. It also enables unions to seek and get unjustified higher wages for employees. The flow on that results from increased wage decisions may seen advantageous to the wage earner for a time, but eventually it is detrimental to him. I emphasise that it certainly is detrimental to the man on the land and it is always detrimental to the progress of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. The right honourable gentleman will be aware that certain people are campaigning for the changing of the design of the Australian national flag. Our flag, depicting the Union Jack and the Southern Cross, clearly illustrates that our nation was founded by British people in the southern hemisphere. The freedom enjoyed under it is undoubtedly the chief factor in attracting migrants to our shores. I ask that the Prime Minister do all in his power to maintain the present design of our flag with all its national significance. 
Yes. Last night when speaking in this House the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said, as reported in Hansard:  the answer which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  gave to a question in this House on 8th March last when the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  asked a question about certain people campaigning to change the design of the Australian flag and anthem. We heard the Prime Minister's answer to that question, and I have never seen so much fervour on the Government side. 
 I interjected and said: 
Surely you do not object to that; that is patriotism. 
The honourable member for Prospect said: 
It was Interesting to note the reference to patriotism in that question because, whom it was directed against was quite clear to every honourable member in this House. 

 Sir, it is a vivid imagination. I did not mention 'anthem' at all, although I hope that our anthem will continue. My explanation is this: No-one suggested that I should ask the question and no-one assisted me in the wording of the question. I can assure the, House that my only reason for asking the question was that I honour our flag and am against any change in its design. I can assure the House that my question was not directed against anyone, and that I was grossly misrepresented by the honourable member for Prospect. 
 There has been more loud talk than logic from the Opposition. That is the first remark I want to make. Someone has said that the Commissioner should have the power to do the things that have been suggested. As far as I have been able to ascertain, I think that the Commissioner will have the power inside Australia to do all sorts of things regarding the education system and the people who will teach in it. What has to be remembered is that what we are talking about is an international matter and there must be a safeguard. I know that it is all right laughing about these things. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is making a joke of this matter. If he does not care whether this country is safeguarded or not that is all right, but I am not going to sit here and listen to this debate without getting up to support my colleague the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  who was on the right track. The safeguard provided is that the Commissioner has to refer an application by a non-British subject to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service to the Minister and the Minister can then say whether it is all right. Therefore, someone actively in the Government - the Minister or someone in the same position as the Minister - has to have this authority. 
It is all right to say that this is as dead as a dodo, as did my neighbour the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who is calling out all the time. This is more serious than anything else in the whole Bill. It has been described as being the most trivial thing in the Bill. I think that it is the most important thing. Fancy saying that the Commissioner should be able to decide this matter, as one Opposition member did. This is a matter to be decided by a man who is responsible to the people of Australia - a Minister in the Government of the Commonwealth. Therefore, I say that this proVision in the Bill is a safeguard which this country urgently requires. 
It is a safeguard against bringing into this country people who the Minister or the Government believes are not satisfactory people to come here to teach our children. 
It does. Therefore, I support what has been said by my colleague. I believe that this clause is in the best interest of the Commonwealth. 
No, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  It appears that in this House one has to continually stand up for his rights. When the Government Whip refers to the  Deputy  Whip it is time that I came into the picture. 
Yes, all right. The misrepresentation is that the man to whom the Government Whip referred is his assistant. I am the  Deputy  Whip for the Government and should be so addressed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Postmaster-GeneraFs Department 
I present  the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a hall to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 It appears that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has been the cause of some speeches this afternoon. One or two speakers have said: 'I would not have spoken but for what the honourable member for Hunter said'. I am in that category, too, because the honourable member for Hunter made special reference to the Australian Country Party. I am one of the representatives of that Party in the House. I draw special attention to the fact that it is only one man who is reported as saying that he would rather not have the road. What is true - it is said that truth will come out, and it has come out this time - is that the honourable member for Hunter knowing that the Australian Country Party is the chief representative of people in far flung areas and people on the land- 
I was doing exactly what you have said,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I wanted to point out to the House the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter which show very clearly that he considers the Country Party should have its attention drawn to this man's having said that he would rather not have the road under certain circumstances. Passing on from that very quickly, I want to refer to a few remarks made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He grasped this opportunity - and I am only answering now what he said - to ask: Why cannot this money be spent at certain other places, such as Albion in the electorate of Lalor? He might as well ask: Why spend on the Snowy Mountains scheme all the money that scheme has cost? Why should not that amount or a comparable amount have been spent in Sydney or Melbourne? What the honourable member forgets is that the work requiring approval is a road in the Northern Territory which will give people access for their stock to the markets. The road will be a wonderful benefit to Australia whether it is used in relation to mining or the transport of cattle or anything else that one brings to markets. The honourable member for Lalor said nothing about the great freeways in the metropolitan areas. Take Melbourne, for instance, where hundreds of times as much money is being spent for the benefit- 
I am referring to them only because the honourable member for Lalor made comparisons. I am making comparisons between freeways in Melbourne and other capital cities and the road which is to be built in the Northern Territory. The honourable member for Hunter drew attention to one man who said that he would rather have something else in preference to this road. The honourable member for Lalor referred to certain graziers in this country who objected to development. The people in the Northern Territory - and this can be confirmed by a man who knows all about it, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  - are hungry for more and more development, and the development of the Northern Territory, which we hear so much about and for which so much is being done, such as in the construction of beef roads, will greatly benefit Australia. Even the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  would have to say that beef roads are an excellent thing. lt costs a lot of money for the Government to provide them but, nevertheless, they are of outstanding worth to Australia. It appears that I am worrying a few honourable members because I am not speaking to the actual wording of the Bill. The honourable member for Lalor spoke about floods. A story has been told about a city man who, coming to a tram stop which was flooded, said in a disgruntled fashion: I will have to walk to the next stop'. By contrast, a country man coming to a flooded creek would say cheerfully, or at least resignedly: 'It is only another 20 miles to get around it'. This shows the spirit of the people on the land in the Northern Territory and in other places compared with the spirit of the city dweller. 
I will be very brief because the hour is late and all good bees were back in their hives long ago. Honourable members should not forget that bees are not respecters of daylight saving. I do not wish to cite statistics on the honey industry because we have heard them over and over again. Some contributions were very good. I must compliment the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who gave us some interesting facts, but I do not wish to deal with that area. The salient point in the Bill is that a producer will be entitled to vote at a poll and to be a candidate for election if he is the owner of 200 hives. During this debate one honourable member asked: What about a 10-year-old?' A 10-year-old would be represented by a trustee, as would estates. We would therefore not expect a 10-year-old to be a candidate. I understand that the age limit is connected in some way with the Electoral Act. 
The honey industry provides a precarious income for producers, as all primary industries do. Dry weather, droughts, floods and other factors bring down production to a stage where it is not payable. 
That is why we of the Country Party and Government supporters generally believe that we should give primary producers every consideration. Beekeepers are primary producers. It may be a small industry, but any industry in which a man is engaged is an important industry to him. 1 have not heard statistics put forward on the value of beekeeping in respect of pollination. People in the citrus industry or who grow pastures or vegetables have on occasions paid beekeepers to bring their hives into areas where pollination is desirable. 1 suggest that the value of bees as an element in the pollination of fruit, vegetables and pastures is equal to or exceeds the value of the honey that they produce. I believe that this is an outstanding point. When the Board is appointed it will foster the beekeeping industry not only for the money gained from the sale of honey but also for the good that is done by pollination all around this country. This is one of the most important factors in the industry. In the electorate I represent bees are worth thousands of dollars annually to the producers who operate so successfully there. 
Is the Minister for . the Army aware that the 4 Ministers for the Army who immediately preceded him were adamant in opinion and action that the rifle range at Williamstown in Victoria should continue to be the venue of the Queen's Prize shoots and other important Victorian and interstate rifle club competitions? I ask whether he will continue according to the precedent set and maintained by his predecessors in regard to this very important rifle range? 
I wish at this stage to set the record straight. The Assistant Ministers who have been appointed are the first to be appointed at least in the last 26 years to my knowledge. Although this may be only a technical point it should be spoken of in this House. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  have referred to previous appointments as Assistant Ministers when in fact they were Under-Secretaries. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development in his capacity as  Chairman  of the River Murray Commission. Is the Minister aware that grave concern is being expressed by members of the Victorian North-Western Municipalities Association and many other people in Victoria, New South Wales and South Aus tralia and further afield in regard to the decreasing number of native fish in the River Murray, especially the far-famed delicious Murray Cod? If action has not already been taken, will the Minister in his capacity as Chairman of the River Murray Commission have this subject discussed at an early meeting of the Commission with a view to stimulating action in co-operation with the States concerned in overcoming this problem? 
It was not my intention to speak in this debate because the gauge to be used in assessing whether these State grants are satisfactory is to read what the Premiers have said. Generally speaking, I have never known the Premiers to be more pleased than they are now with State grants. But when the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  spoke and gave his first election speech - that is what it was - I felt that I should speak very briefly in order to point out to him that one or two things which he said were erroneous. First he took it upon himself to advise the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  what he should do within his Party room. This would be regarded as comic opera if it were presented on the stage. It is comical that a member of the Opposition should advise another honourable member who supports the Government about what he should do in his Party room. I would not take it upon myself to try to tell the honourable member for Dawson what he should do in his Party room, because that is his own business. 
I took a few notes as the honourable member for Dawson was speaking because I thought he had gone too far and I felt that I should comment on what he said. He referred to the time being lost in implementing certain water conservation schemes in Queensland. He blamed the Government and everybody else, but not himself. We have a proposed water conservation scheme in Victoria - the Dartmouth dam. This project has been delayed for 12 to 18 months, and the man primarily responsible for holding up the work is the honourable member for Dawson. He cannot deny that because I have it here in chapter and verse. He is the member of this House who moved an amendment to the legislation providing for the ratification of the agreement in respect of this dam. The amendment proposed all manner of investigations into sites at Chowilla and Dartmouth to find out what should be done. He sought these investigations despite the advice of experts. Of course, the honourable member for Dawson is not an expert on water conservation, nor am I. I am sure he would admit that I am not an expert and I would admit that he is not an expert. The experts had said that Dartmouth was the far better site because a dam there would provide more and better water for Adelaide and for other purposes.  His  amendment prompted South Australian representatives in this Parliament to enter the debate and subsequently the Leader of the Opposition in the South Australian Parliament saw the opportunity of fostering the idea that Chowilla as the site for a dam was gone for good and that only the Dartmouth dam would be built. As a result of all this, delay occurred. I say without fear of contradiction that the honourable member for Dawson is the man who was responsible for the delay in construction of the Dartmouth dam. There is not the slightest doubt about this. I do not regard the honourable member for Dawson as being devoid of honesty. I have never tried to suggest that. He is so honest that he will not deny what I am saying, because it is true. He cannot deny the truth. The honourable member's action is what held up the project. It is not strange that the honourable member for Dawson should speak about Queensland. He is a representative of that State in this Parliament and is entitled to do so. I try to be as fair as possible in this House. I hate personalities intruding into a debate but it is too much when one honourable member seeks to advise another honourable member what he should do in his Party room. The honourable member for Dawson urged the honourable member for Herbert to 'get stuck into the Prime Minister'. They were the words he used. They were not very parliamentary words and I would not use them were I not quoting the honourable member for Dawson. However, this is the type of comment we hear, especially as election time is approaching. This is why the honourable member for Dawson spoke as he did. Why he should have concentrated on the honourable member for Herbert is a mystery to me. Nevertheless I know that members of this Parliament and people throughout Australia will agree that what I have said is absolutely true. 
During the debate concerning the Dartmouth dam I repeatedly pointed out what would happen. My remarks appear in Hansard. I said that surely honourable members from South Australia would not throw in the towel as in a boxing match because it was suggested that there would never be any chance for a dam at Chowilla at some future time. The River Murray Commission does not build a dam and give a guarantee that it will not build another one. It builds dams when it has the finance to do so and when such dams are necessary. This is all I want to say about the honourable member for Dawson. I think he was most unfair to criticise when he was the culprit in delaying action, as he did 12 to 18 months ago in this House. 
By interjection the honourable member is suggesting that I do not tell the truth. I have never been accused in this House of not telling the truth unless he is doing so now. If he is accusing me of not telling the truth he is the first man in the Federal Parliament who has done so in the 26 years that I have been a member. He may be unique in not knowing what is the truth, but I would not say even that about him. I have tried to say that the honourable member is honest in his intentions. He cannot deny that what I have been saying is the truth. 
The honourable member for Dawson spoke about the provision of beef roads in Queensland. I do not know much about beef roads but I know that in Victoria, as a result of finance made available under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act, roads have improved tremendously over the last 10 years. The same applies to parts of New South Wales and South Australia through which I travel on occasion. Roads have improved in a way that one would not have imagined possible. The Government has applied funds under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement, taking such financial provisions right away from petrol tax. It is now possible for local governments to plan ahead for roads because they know what money they will receive. I would not be the slightest bit surprised if, after I have stated these truthful facts, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  rises to speak in this debate. After all, he generally does so when I have spoken. 
As I said, I will not be surprised if he does so on this occasion. To some extent he is regarded as a comedian in this House, but even during his lapses into comedy he sometimes expresses views that are not in the best interests of the Parliament generally. Decentralisation has been mentioned during this debate. If the States had more money to spend they could make things more attractive in country areas. This would help to retain people in those areas where they are now resident and would attract others to those parts. For long in this Parliament we have spoken about decentralisation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I ask honourable members to reduce the level of conversation. 
I have spoken in many places - in streets and elsewhere - and I do not allow things to stop me speaking, not even the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and, goodness knows, sitting where I do I have had to put up with a lot since the last election. 
Every honourable member knows that what I have said is correct. Members of the Labor Party know that  1  occupy the worst seat in this Parliament being near the honourable member for Sturt and have had to do so for a long time. 
On that count alone, I deserved it. I shall speak now about decentralisation. Of course., I suppose that the honourable member for Sturt will not like this because he represents a closely populated suburban seat. However my position is different. I live and work in the political world in the wide open spaces. As I was saying, the money that goes to the States could be used effectively to make conditions such that they would attract people to certain areas. I have mentioned the Dartmouth dam and this will have an effect on decentralisation. We want more people living in the Murray Valley, and for that region we want a definite inexhustible supply of water. The Dartmouth dam will supply that. The Murray Valley Development League has long had as its slogan: 'One million people in the Murray Valley'. I think that that aim is most conservative. More than one million people could reside in that region if we go about it the right way. We must have water in such a way that there is no chance of it being exhausted. Without water even if crops are grown they will wither and die. If we want decentralisation we, must have decentralised political representation. 
I want to know where the honourable member for Grayndler stands on this mat ter. He probably will follow me in this debate because I generally attract him into the ring. I suggest that honourable members watch to see whether I can do so on this occasion because I will make the attempt to attract the honourable member for Grayndler into making his usual speech. The honourable member for Sturt is looking at me in a bewildered way. He will see whether I can attract the honourable member for Grayndler into this debate on the one vote one value argument. I believe that we should have decentralisation of political representation. This is the only way that the money which is provided to the States under this Bill can be used effectively. If we do not have it and attract all the people to the city we cannot expect to continue spending an inexhaustible amount of money in metropolitan areas and let the country wilt. We must spend it in areas away from the metropolitan areas not only for the good of the people but also for the good of this great Commonwealth of Australia. Therefore, I would like to ask any honourable member who argues against me: Why is he against the decentralisation of political representation? What value is there in the ene vote one value system? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I think the honourable gentleman is getting a little wide of the discussion. This is not an electoral Bill but a States Grants Bill. 
In my speech on this Bill I am trying to give an indication of where  1  think the money should be spent. This is surely a fair proposition. I am of the opinion that the money should not be spent in the great amounts that are being spent in metropolitan areas. I am quite happy that States like Tasmania, Western Australia, South Australia and, perhaps to a lesser or the same extent, Queensland should have equal representation with the other States, New South Wales and Victoria, in the Senate. This is decentralisation of political representation because these smaller States can have a say in spending the money in the way in which they believe it should be spent. They then have a chance. That is the point I am making. If this is fair for a nation should it also not be fair for a State to have the same kind of representation in rural areas as there is in the polluted and congested conglomerations of populations in Sydney and Melbourne? These are the questions I wanted answered and I wish I could get a few of the honourable members opposite to join me. I notice the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  is smiling. 
Of course not, you live in a country area. But can the honourable member for Grayndler and other honourable members say that there is no pollution in Melbourne or Sydney or other capital cities? Of course they cannot. I know that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  is worried about pollution. He will do all he can to overcome it. I have a great admiration for him as have all the members of the Country Party. Without much further ado I will conclude knowing that the honourable member for Grayndler is bound to come into the debate and say a few words about me. 
I wish I could get the honourable member for Sturt to think big about this proposal. I have a pamphlet here in relation to it. If there is anything that the honourable member wishes to say or know about it I have all the information in my desk here and I can answer him. 
Foster's red? What is that? 
I am pleased to address you on this subject,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I know you are a man of some influence. I will sum up what I have said. First of all, I have said that the attitude of the honourable member for Dawson was the main factor in holding up the building of the Dartmouth Dam. When the honourable member for Dawson gets the opportunity he can point out that he was not responsible and give us what he calls the facts. I have said also that we have to decentralise political representation in this country because the amenities go where the votes are and when we have a census and find that more people have gone to the cities we get a redistribution of electoral boundaries and more members of Parliament from the city than from the country, so much so that I now represent about one-quarter of Victoria. 
I do not want to be personal. I could ask how many square miles the honourable member for Sturt represents. 
I am speaking about the city members in the State of Victoria. 
I represent a lot of sheep and sheep represent the wealth of this country. If the honourable member makes disparaging remarks about primary industry and sheep and cattle he is not doing it in the best interests of this Parliament or this country. The more sheep I represent the more I will be pleased. But I am not going to make an election speech. The time will come when we will be making election speeches. I am, of course, speaking now as one personally not looking for votes. I am not standing again for election as everybody knows and I hope that what I have said will be accepted in the spirit in which it has been said. 
I was rather surprised to hear the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  say that he believes that what he said or asked in a question in 1970 or 1971 has brought about what is happening today. I have taken a great interest in this subject over a long period of time. If the House will put up with me for a few minutes I will read one or two things I have said. On 14th May 1968 at 4.53 p.m. I said: 
The first thing about which I wish to speak  is  something which happens here very often. This  is  the presentation of petitions. In my view - and I think that many honourable members will agree with me - this is a complete waste of time. The time that is wasted is not just the time of the honourable member who presents a petition. Sometimes petitions contain hundreds of signatures. In fact, one petition which contained thousands of signatures was so large that it had to be carried into this House by five attendants, I think, when it was presented. What happens when a petition is presented? From what I can see - and I have watched this matter closely for 22 yearswhen a petition is presented no-one takes much notice. Then it disappears, probably down into the dungeons. This happened when a Labor government was in office and it has happened during the term of office of the present Government. The position has never changed. 
It appears to me that people think when they sign a petition that the petition will carry weight and strength in promoting the objectives of the people, but this is not so. I make the suggestion that, if people desire to have petitions presented, the petitions should be presented to the appropriate Minister. Then they will be sure of getting a reply. Does any honourable member in this House know of any reply that has ever come from the presentation of a petition? 
I mean since federation - 
Has any Minister explained what has been happening as regards the subject matter of a petition? Of course not. Nothing really happens. Honourable members on both sides of the House will agree that this is the situation, no matter which Party is in office. 
I am fortified in believing how right I was on that occasion by hearing Opposition  members speak this afternoon, but when I brought the matter up at that time they were strangely silent. 
I have been asked when it was. The date on the Hansard copy from which I have been reading is 14th May 1968. 
One honourable member is claiming that he was not here then. I will omit him. But most honourable members were here and they were strangely quiet on the subject. Let me say a few things about it. First of all, I believe that a petition should be presented to the Minister. I do not believe that the way proposed in the amendment is the right way to do it. Representations should be made to the Minister along the same lines as with any subject at the present time. What the Opposition wants to do is to read out a petition once, as one Opposition member suggested just now, and that will be enough. When I tried to say, in presenting a petition which had been presented yesterday, the day before and the day before that, 'This petition is couched in the same terms as the one just presented', Opposition members called out: Read it out'. Now some of them do not want it read out. 
What the Opposition wants now, as contained in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio, is that within 21 days after the petition is presented - I take it that it will be presented in much the same way as it is presented now - the appropriate Minister should state what is happening and what is going to be done about the subject. It has been suggested by the honourable member for Stirling that the Minister need not give a definite answer but may say: 'We are having a look at it'. What good would that do? He could keep putting it off. Honourable members know that nearly every petition that is presented concerns a matter of Government policy. Some of the petitions may be based on wrong premises. I have received petitions and I have written back to the people who sent them in or to the person beading the list saying: 'I have received the petition. You headed it to be presented in the Parliament so you gave me no chance of doing anything else, but I think it is a waste of time altogether presenting the petition.' This was especially, so in the case of the petition relating to post offices. Before 80 per cent of these petitions came in the Postmaster-General had said: 
As to the closure of small non-official post offices, a meeting was held on the south coast of New South Wales some little time ago. Unfortunately, following the meeting, a Press report was issued which suggested that a Post Office spokesman had indicated that all non-official post offices would be closed. That is incorrect. No such statement was made. In point of fact, the then Director of Posts and Telegraphs in New South Wales, who is now the Director-General, represented the Post Office at that particular meeting. He has assured me that no statement of that nature was made at the meeting. 
Because it was thought or printed in some journal that certain post offices were to be closed down, people up and down Australia presented petitions. This was a waste of time for the people who signed and those who had to collect the signatures and for the people who wrote the petitions, because it did not do any good at all. 
 I do not want to debate the matter of post offices; but, in the electorate I represent, if . the closure of a post office is pending the district post office manager will meet the constituents in the area adjacent to the post office and discuss the matter with them. 
The honourable member for Corio has proposed as an amendment that the responsible Minister have 21 days in which to report back to the House. What would the Minister say when he reported back? The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  is continually interjecting. Although it is rather difficult not to refer to interjections, lately I have tried to ignore them. However, when I am trying to put forward a case that 1 believe should be put forward, just as I will not interject on honourable members opposite, I would like them to give me a hearing. 
Of course, to that statement, the honourable member for Chifley interjects: 'That is nonsense'. Therefore, I should not get a hearing in this House. 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order!  There is no substance in the point of order. 
The honourable member for Chifley said that he did not say it but that he was talking to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Of course he was talking to the honourable member for Riverina. He said it to that honourable member. It was heard by honourable members on this side of the House. 
I want to say only one thing more on this subject. If the honourable member for Chifley was speaking to the honourable member for Riverina on a different subject, that is altogether different. But, if he says that he did not say That is nonsense' to the honourable member for Riverina, I will have to make a fresh assessment of the honourable member for Chifley. He should put himself straight on that. 
When the period of 21 days which is provided for in the amendment had almost elapsed, the Minister would come into the House and say that petition No. 356, or whatever lt might be, was a matter of Government policy. What is the good of that to anybody? After all, it does not matter whether the Labor Party is in office or not. I know that if it was in office it would also do this. Ninety-five per cent of the matters raised by petitions are matters of policy. Furthermore, what is the good of just reading out a petition requesting that something be done unless the mem bers have a chance to debate the petitions and tell the Parliament why these things should happen? One of the great things about Parliament is the debate which takes place on various subjects. When an honourable member raises a subject he should debate it. I am debating now the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Corio relating to the provision of a period of 21 days and I am saying that this provision is completely futile because, after all, the subject of the petition will probably just be a matter of policy. 
I want to make a deal with or give a guarantee to members of this Parliament that, if I so desired, I could bring to this Parliament within 2 sitting weeks a large petition asking that certain members of this Parliament be politically annihilated. Honourable members know that this could be done simply because people sign petitions not realising what is proposed in them. I could also get petitions signed regarding the economy that would not benefit the very people whom the people who signed them wanted to benefit. Honourable members know that one can get any petition signed. One can stand on a street corner in Melbourne or somewhere else and ask someone whether he will sign the petition. He will ask: "What is it about?' He will be told that it is about the Vietnam War and he will agree to sign it. No matter what side the petition supports, some people will sign it. Everybody knows that, and honourable members cannot deny it because it is right. It could be about pensions or about something else, but it may not bear any relationship to reality. A few people who really want something changed after due consideration sign petitions. 
Before I close I should like to refer to what I said earlier. When a petition is signed, it is just a straight out request and it does not give me or any other member on either side of the House a chance to debate the question. All that honourable members are doing is presenting the petition. They are letting the Government, the Cabinet or somebody else who is unknown decide what shall be done and come back into the House and say that it is a matter of policy. Therefore, under no circumstances would I support the amendment because I think it is a further waste of time. The scheme which operates in New Zealand was put forward. I will not say that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  altogether supported it, but he did put it forward as a suggestion. I do not know how many people on committees and how many weeks it would take to operate this system. The petitions would have to be referred to different committees and they would be sent back to the House with recommendations. When the House received the recommendations, I take it that they would be debated. When a recommendation is put before this House a decision is not immediately made as to whether the recommendation will be accepted or not. Honourable members would cry out for debate on the matter and I would be one of the first to do that. How long would the system take? We would be sitting here, and the whole year would not be long enough. 
There is a bad flaw in the amendment. Let us suppose that about a fortnight or a week before the House was to rise 40 or 50 petitions were presented to the House. How would the Ministers report back to the House within 21 days? The House would not be sitting. 
I know that the amendment specifies sitting days, but the point is that the Ministers would hot report back for 3 or 4 months. I am not wrong on this. If the House had only 14 sitting days to go before it rose and the petitions were presented, the remainder of the 21 days would recommence when the House resumed its sitting. The honourable member's head is shaking, so it seems that I am right. After this period of time, the matter raised by the petition would have become stale because, for instance, the Government introduced something in its Budget which made unnecessary absolutely the subject of the petition. All this debate is a further waste of time and the amendment will not receive my support. 
First of all, I should like to refer to a man whom I regard as my friend - the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti).  He presented more or less a democratic point of view. One would think from his speech that there was no division in this House, that we all claim certain things and that we all support them. But on the right and the left of the middle of this chamber different policies on all sorts of subjects are proposed. The honourable member for Macquarie would have led me to believe, if I had not known better, that the Opposition in this chamber is always willing to support motions that certain members think are in the best interests of Australia. Of course, we know that this is not right. 
I am not referring to a non-party vote; I am referring to a normal vote. After this amendment is either carried or rejected - perhaps even tonight - we will return immediately to the old system of party voting. So it is very difficult, by having a non-party vote, to bring about something which will continue to be supported along non-party lines. We just cannot do that, in spite of the harsh words that were uttered by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  Surely be can understand this. Also, in all the years that I have been a member of Parliament, no Opposition members and  very  few Government supporters have voted with the party to which they do not belong. We know that that does not happen. It is all right to say that there will be a free vote, but as soon as the free vote is taken, what we decide by that vote will be put into operation by a party vote. This is what is happening. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who called me a friend and I will reciprocate by calling him a friend, said that I had stated that petitions are a waste of time. Earlier today I read from a speech that  1  made in  1968,  and  1  will not weary the House by reading it again. But at that time in  1968 -  and  1  gave the exact date and time in  1968 -  I expressed my opinion about this matter. 
The honourable member says that he will never forget that speech, but at that time he did not support me. No honourable member supported me, but much of what I said then is being said tonight. The honourable member for Stirling is telling us that in  1971  and in  1972  be asked a question which he considers is the main factor in this matter being discussed now. Of course, this is a highly ridiculous claim, especially as it comes from a member like the honourable member for Stirling who generally is pretty good on what I call sound logic. Finally, without delaying the House unduly, I put it that there is one part of the amendment that should be clarified. The honourable member for Riverina should clarify it.  His  amendment provides: 
That the following words be added to the question: 28a. A Petitions Committee to consist of 7 members, shall be appointed at the commencement of each Parliament . . . 
Any Bill which proposes for the appointment of a committee - whether it be related to wheat stabilisation or wool - stipulates who the members are to be. Why did the honourable member for Riverina choose the number  7? 
It would have to be lucky to get the honourable member for Riverina out of the position into which he has got himself. No govern ment will allow an opposition to take the business of the House out of its hands. If  7  members were appointed to the proposed committee at the present time they would be  4  members from the Government and  3  from the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Riverina says: 'That is right'. If. by some miscarriage of justice, Labor came to office later this year, on that committee there would be  4  Labor government members and from the then Opposition, which is now the Government, there would be  3  members. Does anyone think for one second that the Government would not have put forward the views it has on this subject? 
I do not know which member opposite interjected but I have been asked who wrote my speech. Every honourable member knows that the only thing that  .1  have read in this speech is the first portion of the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Riverina. I have read nothing else. Every now and again the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and other members opposite claim that I am reading my speeches but  I  can, from the knowledge that  1  have gained in this Parliament, make a speech without first writing it out whereas many honourable members opposite, including the honourable member for Grayndler, cannot do so. Somebody has said that if the honourable member for Mallee wrote his speech he would do better. That may be so. When  1  make a speech it is my speech.  II  is not representation by proxy. 
These questions are constantly put to me. 
The whole point is that government is in charge. People vote candidates into office. They are either in government or in opposition. 
The same will apply to the proposed committee. It is of no good getting away from reality and spreading the myth that the lion will lie down with the lamb and that the millennium is here; it is not here. If there is a committee of 7, as the honourable member for Riverina said, there will be 4 Government members and 3 Opposition members. If Labor gets into office the committee will comprise 4 Labor government members and 3 Opposition members. The government of the day would be controlling the position just as it is now. That is what would happen. After the committee came to a decision it would report back to the House and a debate would ensue. If members opposite want a debate, why not have it on a petition when it is presented? Why waste all this time in getting the committee to look at a petition and make recommendations? We might not like the recommendations of the committee any more than Opposition members like the recommendations of the committee which has been appointed to consider the Standing Orders and to whose recommendations members opposite are moving amendments. This is the real test. A committee has been established. It has made certain findings in respect of petitions and has made certain recommendations in respect of Standing Orders. Those recommendations are before the House now. Many members do not agree with that committee's findings. The same situation would apply with the recommendations of a committee of 7 which the honourable member for Riverina has proposed be set up. The amendment will not get my support. 
 Ever since I came into this House I have been opposed to late night sittings. I agree largely with what has been said by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  If we have excessively late sittings we are not in a position to deal with legislation in a fitting manner. Each Friday morning when the House is sitting  1  travel to Melbourne by aeroplane with a number of city members. They can go home, if they have had a very late night or perhaps an early morning on the Friday, and go to bed. But I have to drive my car  165  miles before I get home. That is the difference between the city man and the country man. The man who lives in Sydney is even better off. He has a shorter distance to travel. He gets in the plane, he is home, and he could be in bed before II o'clock having a good sleep if he had sat in this House until  2  o'clock or  3  o'clock in the morning. 
I believe that I have been consistent in this matter. I opposed late night sittings when the Chifley Government was in office. I remember one occasion - I have told about it so often here that its repetition is perhaps tedious - when we got back to the Kurrajong Hotel when the breakfast bell was ringing at half past  7  in the morning. Then we had to be back here by halfpast  10.  We sat fairly late that night. Then I had to go to Melbourne and drive home a long distance. One cannot reasonably keep doing these things. I do not agree with the Parliament having to sit for longer periods, for  2  or  3  reasons. One reason is that when a government has been in office as long as this Government has, it has all its basic legislation on the statute book. If the Opposition came into office it would sit tremendously long hours for many days, changing all the legislation that this Government has enacted. The Opposition would not agree with it. lt would want to change most of it. This would take a very long time and the House would be sitting many more days. But once the basic legislation has been settled there are only the normal annual adjustments after the Budget - the Supply Bills and different things that come in that have to be given attention. 
I cannot agree with what the honourable member for Perth said. He put forward one or two cases. I just forget what they were, but as I listened to them I did not agree with them.  1  cannot agree with the amendment in the way it has been moved by the honourable member for Wills, because I think that he has gone a bit too far one way. I think that there is a happy medium. If the honourable member for Wills were agreeable to changing his amendment to make it  1 1  p.m. on a Tuesday night with no adjournment debate and not  10  o'clock but  10.30  p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday with adjournment debate, I would support it. 
I will not do that at all. I am talking about the honourable member's amendment.  1  would support it if those changes were made. I do not think, as the honourable member for Perth said, that this would mean the same thing and that we would go on with the adjournment debate. On some Wednesday and Thursday nights honourable members do not want to speak on the adjournment. That has happened very often. Perhaps  4  honourable members want to speak. 
That would take 40 minutes, which is not very long. The fact is that the Government is in charge of the House. If the motion for the adjournment were put at 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday, when the Government thought that the adjournment debate had gone far enough, it would very quickly move the closure. The honourable member for Perth must not think that the Government would allow the adjournment debate to go on until midnight if the adjournment were moved at 10.30 o'clock. It would not go on for 2 hours. I have very rarely seen it go on for 2 hours - only when there has been some special argument between the Parties which created great interest and when they decided that they wanted to come to some conclusion, a conclusion which was never reached. 
So I am between the 2 propositions, but I favour the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills a little - not as he has moved it, but if he were agreeable to making it 1 1 p.m. on Tuesday with no adjournment debate and 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday. If he did that, I would support him. But I wilt not move an amendment if he will not change his amendment. If his amendment is defeated I am finished there, because I think that as a matter of common sense he should accede to my request. I think that more honourable members would then support his amendment than will support it as it is presently written. The 10 p.m. adjournment the honourable member for Wills has advocated would mean that the Parliament would rise only 2 hours after it had reassembled after the dinner break. We have to sit a bit longer than that. If the Parliament were to adjourn at 1 1 p.m. on a Tuesday night it would mean that it would sit for 3 hours after the dinner break. One could be at one's hotel and in bed before half past 11 if an adjournment debate were not permitted. That would not be too bad. On die other hand if the House were to adjourn at 10.30 p.m. the chances are one would be in bed at one's hotel by 11 o'clock, which would be quite good. I have found that some of the younger members of this House get more tired than the older members, although if they were at a dance they would probably dance till daylight. I put that proposition to the honourable member for Wills for his consideration and leave it at that. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The subject I want to deal with very briefly is one that is not usually dealt with in this House. In fact, I think I am the only member in the last 26 years to have dealt with it. It is a very important matter. I lead into my speech by asking: What are Australia's 3 most important days? I would say that they are Australia Day, Anzac Day and Remembrance Day. It is true that if our fighting forces had not taken part in events on foreign soil to protect this country which led to the observance of Anzac Day there would not be a Remembrance Day and certainly there would no longer be an Australia Day. I am speaking on this matter tonight because when this Parliament resumes sitting next Wednesday, Anzac Day this year will have passed. This Parliament should always be grateful and make known to the people its gratitude for the great service that our fighting men have rendered for Australia down through the years. I think that we all should remember and never suffer our forgetfulness to detract from their renown. No words of mine or of anyone else can add to their fame. As Anzac Day is only a few days off, I say very definitely that the people should rally to the marches and meetings of Anzac Day so as to instil into the younger generation those things that mattered so much to Australia during the 2 World Wars and since then during what, compared with the 2 World Wars, may be described as minor conflicts. 
The story is told in Australia - it is not original - of some people working on a job. A man went along and said to one man working on the job: 'What are you doing?'. The workman replied: 'I am working for $90 a week'. He went along to a second man and said, 'What are you doing?' He said, 'I am chiselling granite'. He went to a third man and asked him what he was doing. He said, T am helping to build a cathedral*. What is the position in Australia today? Are many of our people working just for the wages they receive? Are some of them just chiselling granite or working with timber, or are they helping to build this nation? This is the question I pose. 
I believe that we are to have a moratorium march in Melbourne tomorrow. Of course, next week the Anzac Day march will take place. People can stagger drunk in public places in Australia today and no one will take much notice. People can use bad language in the streets and no notice is taken of that. Even in this Parliament, people do not worry about it. But if one salutes the flag, stands bare-headed while a troop of old soldiers marches by or makes a speech such as I am making now, someone is bound to say, 'You are showing off*. That is not the case. The case is that Australia is a great and prosperous nation. It has been said that for every 9 men who can stand adversity only one can stand prosperity. By world standards this is a very prosperous country. We say that we have a very high standard of living, and this is so. But do we have a high standard of conduct? 
I know that people will say you are older than many of the young people who are concerned with the remarks and that there is a generation gap. But we must remember when Anzac Day comes that it is the right time to put forward our feeling. We must remember that times have changed and are changing. But principles do not change. Unless this country keeps to the principles that made the British people great, it will go down like nations in the past - the Roman Empire, the Persian Empire and all the countries with their great prosperity and good living which forgot the fundamental principles that build men and nations. The whole structure of civilization is based upon the confidence that men have in each other, in their honesty, in their integrity and in their ability. It seems that discipline and good conduct have ceased to exist in certain quarters in Australia today. Therefore, if we do not stand for these principles I believe that in spite of anything we can do in the Parliament in relation to the economy, we are detracting from the greatness of this nation. 
I find that throughout the country many people are touchy about anything to do with nationalism. They say that we must not acclaim that we are a great nation or that we are proud of our nation. Some people say that we should have world government Only when it is strong financially and morally can this nation help its own people, and only when this is factual can we help less fortunate nations that we are anxious to assist. So we must be enthusiastic about Anzac Day, Australia Day and Remembrance Day. Someone has said that an enthusiastic man has had a visitation of the Gods. The mind grasps certain facts, reason draws certain conclusions. But it is imagination that binds them together like faggots into a torch and lights them at the fires of enthusiasm. In that genial glow the heart warms; faith and hope revive; energy takes command; mortal men become heroes; the impossible becomes possible; and the work of the world is done. Honourable members should not think for one moment that prosperity and progress go together. They do not After all, we can be very prosperous but have no progress for the simple reason I mentioned earlier, namely, that prosperity brings about the forgetting of the fundamental things that build nations. Therefore we can veer that way. Do not forget that the great nations of the past did not collapse because they had bad times; they collapsed because prosperity sapped their standards - and they have been nothing but weak nations ever since. 
Australians should always treat Australia Day, Anzac Day and Remembrance Day with reverence because they are the days that signify the very principles on which this nation has been built. Anzac Day, as we know, falls on the 25th of this month. Although some honourable members might not agree with what I am saying, I believe that on that day we should pay tribute to the men and women of our fighting forces to whom we owe our freedom. Australians want peace; they do not want war. But they do not want peace at any price. Therefore, let us have peace but let us be ready always to defend this country should the need arise. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Will the right honourable gentleman cooperate in giving the greatest possible publicity to the fact that gatherings and marches which commemorate high principles do not attract violence, as illustrated all over Australia by Anzac Day marches and gatherings this week? 
 Mr Speaker,  as certain Ministers and many honourable members of this House and the Press refer to the sittings which will follow the winter adjournment as the next session of this Parliament, and as this is causing confusion in and out of Parliament, will you,  Mr Speaker,  state whether the sittings following the winter adjournment will be the sixth period of the second and present session of this Parliament and not the next session? If this is not so,  Mr Speaker,  will you please clarify the position? 
 Listening to this debate I thought I was hearing from new members who do not understand the workings of the House and were therefore making complaints. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Jones)  should know better, but he has not had experience in government. 
As to whether I am telling the truth or not, I ask whether the honourable member for Newcastle had any experience of the Labor Party in government? He will not answer that because the answer is no. I like the Grievance Day debate. I think it is a good debate but circumstances alter cases and as the Parliament is hoping to rise within the next 2 or 3 weeks, every moment is precious so that important government business may be dealt with properly. The honourable member for Newcastle said that if one studies past Grievance Day debates one will find that things of great moment have been discussed. This is not so. When one studies most of them it will be seen that something personal has been brought forward by the honourable member on behalf of a certain constituent. Such cases in number overwhelm all those of great national importance. So the honourable member for Newcastle was not very accurate in what he said to the Parliament. He interjected to suggest that I was not telling the truth, and mentioned the case I want to put. You will agree with me,  Mr Speaker,  that much time has been taken up this morning by the riotous behaviour of the Opposition in raising all kinds of absolutely frivolous points of order. We could have had perhaps three or four more questions asked at question time had certain honourable members behave themselves. You had to warn the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  three or four times (Quorum formed). If it were possible for a man from Mars to come down and look at what is going on in this House it would not be very long before he realised that we are getting near an election. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  is all the time interjecting. He is not helping matters at all. 
And I will thrash the honourable member again If he is not careful. I do not take notice of what newcomers to this House say because they may not understand. The main offender here is the honourable member for Newcastle. But what a wonderfully democratic Australian Labor Party this is. One of the greatest things that Labor has put forward in its programme would not have been great for Australia. There is an honourable member walking across the chamber and interjecting. He should sit down. 
I am supporting the motion. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  referred to me in an abusive way. Let me tell honourable members that when he first came into this House I shook his hand and congratulated him and said: 'I hope you are happy here1. He has not spoken to me since. That is the kind of man he is. I have endeavoured in this House to extend goodwill to all honourable members. Most accept it and reciprocate; a few do not and 1 cannot be blamed for that. I am referring to what the Labor Party put forward when it was in office - bank nationalisation. How many Labor members knew about that? At that time Caucus did not decide whether this move should be made. 
I have said that I will speak for only 10 minutes because the Government and, I think, the Opposition want to get through the business of the House. Also, anything I say will be something that I have said on a previous occasion. This may sound like tedious repetition, but everything I have heard so far in this debate I have heard on other occasions. In a debate on tariffs something new does not crop up all the time. Therefore one keeps saying the same thing one has said before in the hope that somebody will listen, take notice and take action. First of all I want to point out. as it has not been said in the last few minutes, that the main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Tariff Board to comprise 1 1 instead of the present 9 members. This was foreshadowed in a statement by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  on 12th April 1972. He also said that the Government had decided that there should be a progressive review of the tariff. I am in full agreement with that, and I think most honourable members are. 
The debate tonight seems to have been a very moderate one. I have agreed with most of what has been said, up to a point. But it would appear from the speeches made that we have only secondary industry in this country needing protection. That is why I, as a member of the Australian Country Party, have come into the debate. It is a well known fact that the more excessive protection is given to secondary industries, the more harm is done to the economy of the primary industry. I have stated in this House before that when a very big profit is made by some company, the Opposition immediately cries out that the profit is too big. But the Opposition never speaks about the reason for the profit. There could be 2 reasons for a profit. One would be very great efficiency and the other would be an excess of tariff protection which would allow the company to charge high prices and therefore make high profits. Why does the Opposition not draw attention to this? It appears to me to be very clear that the moment these high profits are made a case goes to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for an increase in wages on the basis of what an industry can afford to pay. If the industry is highly protected, the profits will be very high. When the Arbitration Commission makes its decision on what an industry can afford to pay, the rises given to the employees in the industry must accordingly be high. High costs must be passed on somehow. They are passed on by the manufacturer and the retailer just changing their price tags. 
I represent a great number of primary producers, as does all this fine body of men sitting behind me. We believe that if tariffs are to be raised and kept at a high level, primary industry must be protected in some way. This is why on the first day that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  became Prime Minister I asked him a certain question which T have raised again since the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been in office. I asked: As the division between the economy of secondary and primary industries is widening will the Government reduce tariffs in certain instances or will it grant to primary industry price support on its exports? If the Government decides that it will not do either of these things primary industry will continue to be in a very bad financial position. It must be remembered that it has not just been bad seasons and droughts that have brought primary industry to its knees, but it has been the very high costs in Australia- 
One honourable member is saying 'bad management'. I have referred to efficiency in industry. He says 'bad management', but of course he means bad management by the Government. Although a certain primary industry which has contributed significantly to Australia's growth may have had good management, because of high prices it could be put in a position of great financial difficulty. [ believe that the progressive review of tariffs must continue and that it is about time tariffs were examined very closely. I do not know whether the appointment of an extra 2 members to the Tariff Board will make much difference. However, I am hoping it will. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  spoke quite well on this Bill. However, I did not hear him mention primary industry at any stage. As prices go up primary industry gets into more and more difficulty. General Motors Holden's Pty Ltd were mentioned. Of course, this company was established in Australia by the efforts of  Mr Chifley.  I think that there are at least 2 Holden motor cars for every other type of car on the roads today. If we had to buy these motor cars from overseas the amount of money built up almost exclusively by primary industry in what we call our overseas reserves would soon be exhausted. If this had occurred we would not have been able to import earth moving equipment and many other things into this country. We would not have been able to import raw materials for secondary industry which are not available here because we would not have had the overseas balances with which to pay for them. 
Someone said that Australia is just about self-reliant as far as goods are concerned. However, what is the position in the case of rubber? How long would this country last without that commodity? If we did not import rubber from overseas as an instance, most honourable members in this House would not be able to drive or be driven home this week. It is essential that we have this raw material. There are many other goods that we require in this country that we cannot produce. Tariffs must be imposed in such a way as to foster the export of enough goods to accumulate enough money overseas to buy the products of which I have spoken. 
The general outlook for primary industry at present is anything but all right. Without something being done to pay what I have called price support for exports, I do not know what else can be done if we are to continue with the present tariff system. I am fully aware, as was stated by the honourable member for Lalor, that one of Australia's great needs is to have full employment and to provide work for more and more people. Of course we must endeavour to achieve this. Also I want to admit very freely that the home market is the best market for the Australian primary industry. The more people we have working in Australia the more primary products can be sold in Australia. But at present the market is not large enough. In fact, it is only very small. Only a very small percentage - about 10 or 12 per cent - of our wool and only a small percentage of our wheat and other major primary products are sold in this country. By a strange twist of fate a lot of primary products are sold to countries which have a low standard of living and which cannot pay the Australian standard price for those goods. These are the very countries from which our secondary industries are protected by the tariff. So we have a dual opposition to progress by way of better prices and better conditions for primary producers. We have a dual advantage for secondary industry for the simple reason that secondary industry has become protected and it can and does sell its good to primary industry when primary producers can afford to buy them at all. 
A certain honourable member has interjected. I will not mention his electorate because I do not want to disgrace him. But there is a certain honourable member from Sydney who says that we should all go out and work for the farmers for nothing. If anyone has his mind so muddled as to think I am saying that tonight, he is very far from the mark. 
I am sorry. I said a member from Sydney. I certainly did not mean the honourable member for Sydney. Perhaps the honourable member concerned might care to say what electorate he represents, if he is so proud of what he is saying. 
There we are, the honourable member for Robertson is the man who interjected and that cleans the matter up. It was good of the honourable member to say so, because I did not want to name him. Not only is what the honourable member is interjecting not accurate but, of course, he is trying to interfere with my train of thought on this subject. I can assure honourable members that he is not going to be very successful. I know that some members of the Opposition laugh at a case such as the one I am putting up tonight. As a matter of fact, they are laughing now. 
I admit that it is a current topic with me. It is a current topic with honourable members opposite to try to foster secondary industry and forget primary industry and that is why we are sitting on opposite sides of the House. I said that I would speak for only  10  minutes and I think that I have just about spoken for that length of time.  1  appreciate the opportunity for saying these words. I hope to continue my remarks about this matter before I leave the Parliament because I think that primary industry is still the greatest factor in Australia's present standing and progress. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. As much has been said regarding the presentation of White Papers, green papers or perhaps papers of some other shade of colour, I ask: Is it necessary, for instance, to use the name 'White Paper*, which gives no indication of what the paper is intended to convey and is so named probably because parliaments used the term long before this Parliament was founded? I ask: Will the right honourable gentleman make investigations with a view to having more up to date procedure adopted m the presentation of these papers? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. 1 ask: Approximately what was the percentage of Australian Aborigines of those until recently encamped on the lawns in front of this House in the so-called Aboriginal 'embassy"? 
When the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  asked how it was possible that this pipeline would mean that less water would be taken out of the River Murray than would be the case with open earthen channels, I tried to give him the answer by way of interjection but knowing that interjections are out of order I refrained. I now give the information. I referred in my speech to  Mr East,  the head of the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission, who is an expert on irrigation. He has said that over 90 per cent of water is lost by evaporation and seepage. The answer to the query put by the honourable member for Sturt is that this quantity of water will not be lost by evaporation and seepage and therefore, with the use of a pipeline it will not be necessary to take so much water out of the River Murray. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I am, of course, overjoyed that the Federal Government is to allocate $2m to this scheme. It really is a Victorian scheme. The Victorian Government has gone into the finest detail in examining the worth of the scheme and has backed it with $900,000, which it has already put into operation for the scheme. With the State Government putting in $900,000 and the Federal Government allocating $2m, we believe that that will be sufficient to complete the scheme, which I believe is unique in Australia. For several reasons, which I hope to be able to explain, I do not think that we can compare this scheme with what is happening in Queensland or in other States. We may be able to compare it with schemes that may take place in the future in South Australia or in other parts of Australia. 
Ever since I entered this House - I think it was in the first month I was here - I have advocated priorities and, even though it may be tedious repetition, I still advocate the same priorities. I can show honourable members 20 places in Hansard where I have advocated these priorities. I have said that priority No. 1 should be defence. It is no good our having these schemes, good farms, houses, motor cars and a democratic government if we cannot protect them. So above all, this country should support defence. Perhaps some people in metropolitan areas would not agree with this, but I believe that the second priority is primary industry, coupled with satisfactory water conservation. Primary industry, as much as anything else, has built this country. The main factor in building up our national wealth has been primary industry, until recently when we have moved more into secondary industry which, of course, has priced itself out of world markets. But, nevertheless, we still depend to a large extent on primary industry. 
I have always supported primary industry. If anybody asked me the main reason why I have supported it - whether it is because I know a lot of farmers or districts in Victoria and in other areas where I have lived; I have not lived in a city - I would say it was because primary industry, through the years, has produced the goods or, perhaps I should say, a surplus of primary products that have been sent overseas. The sale of these goods has built up our overseas balances. This has not resulted in money coming back to Australia but it has provided the means for purchasing all sorts of equipment. Without this equipment it would have been absolutely impossible to construct schemes such as the Snowy Mountains scheme. 
Some people ask why the Snowy Mountains scheme was not started years earlier. The point is that you could not do the work with a horse and dray. But by the use of up to date earth moving equipment the scheme became a reality. We were able to purchase this equipment with the overseas reserves which had been built up by the sale of primary industry products. Therefore, I believe that by supporting primary industry - we in the Australian Country Party do this right up to the hilt - we are taking a national line. 
I desired to read a letter which appeared this afternoon in the Melbourne Herald' and to comment on it. The letter reads: 
May I make a strong protest against continuous smearing of our Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon.  Never before has a Prime Minister been so unfairly treated. 
No one has accused me of it. Even the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has not done that. I know that the honourable member  for  Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is introducing him into the debate by way of a joke. The honourable member for Grayndler has never done that. The lady writing this letter has struck a note to which anybody with any idea of fair play must give attention. I want now to touch upon one or two general things which she said. She said: 
Further he does not criticise the petty minded people who are always sniping at him. 
How true that is. I have not heard him criticise people who are sniping at him all the time. 
Since the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  mentioned me in the course of his speech, I rise to make a few remarks. First of all, he said that the honourable member for Mallee will recall that he had his best opportunities to speak when the Labor Government was in office. I came into this Parliament in February 1946 and Labor was in office until 10th December 1949, if I remember correctly. The honourable member says: 'He got his greatest opportunities'. Of course I did. If honourable members read Hansard - I will quote from Hansard if necessary - they will see that I got my opportunities between 2 a.m and 5 a.m. when legislation for the expenditure of millions of pounds was being considered and many Labor Party members and others were sleeping. The expenditure of 30m or 40m was frequently discussed between the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. I have often described how honourable members left this House on one occasion and arrived at the Hotel Kurrajong just in time to hear the breakfast bell which was rung at 7.30 a.m. in those days. It was during those hours that I got my wonderful opportunity to speak. I have referred to this aspect in different parts of my electorate and in other electorates when 1 have been invited to them. This was the great opportunity that members had to speak - when a Labor government was forcing legislation through the House at unearthly hours. But listen to honourable members opposite now. They are wondering why we should desire to get legislation through before the election. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  challenges the Government to proceed with the election but would anyone think for one moment that the Government would hold an election before its Budget proposals were implemented by legislation? No-one would think this way. 
Of course members opposite would do this. They would do it because they do not want Government members to have the oppor tunity of explaining to the people the great benefits of this Budget. It contains probably more benefits than any other Budget since Federation. Of course members opposite would like the legislation passed quickly, but members on this side of the House want the people to know precisely what the Budget benefits comprise. People throughout Australia as yet do not really realise many of the provisions of the Budget and these must be explained. 
The honourable member for Grayndler reminds me of the television show 'The Great Temptation'.  His  great temptation is that he cannot make a speech without mentioning the honourable member for Mallee. He always tells the old story about how the honourable member for Mallee came into the Parliament roaring like a lion but now is like a rabbit suffering from myxomatosis.  His  recounting of this story is tedious repetition and he should be stopped. When he speaks about me like that, it is evidence of the extent of his vocabulary. However I might say, because I am proud of it, that he has helped greatly in having the Mallee electorate mentioned by name more often in this House than any other electorate since Federation. Years ago in this House the honourable member for Grayndler and I had debates almost every week on the motion that the House adjourn. The Melbourne Herald' ran stories under the heading Overnight in Canberra' and it frequently published the results of our debates. Those were the days when I thrashed the honourable member. He vividly remembers. He never forgets those days and if he thinks he can gain an advantage over me in any debate he is always on the spot and mentions the member for Mallee. I invite honourable members to look at Hansard to see how often he mentions my name in debate. The Government wants to get through the business of the House as quickly as possible but members on this side want an opportunity of explaining to the people of Australia the wonderful benefits of the Budget. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. As many members of the Opposition in this House have stated through the years that they are socialists and are proud of it, and as some of them have recently been requesting certain referendums, will the Prime Minister arrange for an early referendum in which the people of Australia will be asked whether they desire to be governed under socialist rule, or does the right honourable gentleman consider that the coming Federal election is tantamount to the submitting of this question to the people of Australia? 
 I think that the motion before the House is a very reasonable one. The Government wants to get its Budget through as soon as possible. Yesterday the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said, when 1 was speaking: 'If you put the election on straight afterwards, we will let you get the Budget through tomorrow'. That is true. Of course, I replied to him: Yes, this would suit the Labor Party very well for the simple reason that it would not give the members on the Government side the opportunity to explain to the people the great benefits that are contained in the Budget'. That is why I interjected when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was speaking and said that he had offered this to us. Although he did not answer my interjection, I have the opportunity to refer now to the matter. 
The only other matter to which I wish to refer is the complaint of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  about the Parliament taking time off to listen to the Melbourne Cup. It must be remembered that the members of this Parliament are a cross-section of the community Some of them might like to hear this horse race and some might not. It must be conceded that the Melbourne Cup is considered all over the world to be the greatest sporting event of the year in Australia. There is no doubt about that fact. Yet here is a member of the Federal Parliament complaining about the Parliament standing adjourned for about 10 minutes - the race takes only a few minutes to run - so that its members can listen to, on the wireless, or see on the television, Australia's greatest sporting event. 
I do not think that he was narked at all, because I know him pretty well. The honourable member for Wills has the sort of inflexible idea that the Government should always operate along the same lines, irrespective of the circumstances. This does not work either inside or outside Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I understand that it is the intention of the Government to appoint additional trade commissioners throughout the world and to create some additional trade posts. If this is so will the Minister for Trade and Industry, when these appointments are being made, give consideration to my oftexpressed advocacy that at least 3 of our trade commissioners should have roving commissions, allowing them at once to proceed to any part of the world where trade prospects emerge and where we are not represented, and to co-ordinate the work of our network of trade posts? The Minister will know that this system has proved very successful in private enterprise. 
I did not suddenly remember them at all. There were so many interjections and so many uncouth fellows trying to stop me speaking that I did not have the opportunity. People say that the Budget is a rich man's budget. This is completely wrong. For people on certain incomes under $5,500 there is to be a 10 per cent reduction in taxation. The Government now proposes to increase the limit of free means from $10 to $20 a week. Let me repeat one thing because honourable members are saying all the time that there is nothing in the Budget about the abolition of the means test. The Treasurer said in the Budget Speech: 
We have decided to abolish the means test within the next 3  years  for age pension eligibility for residentially qualified men and women aged 65 and over. 
Finally, in the few minutes I have left, 1 want to ask honourable members opposite what they think they gain by the uncouth way they have treated me tonight. As far as I am concerned- 
If I was looking in the honourable member's direction I did not mean him. I just want to say that while I have been in this House I have always extended the best of goodwill to all honourable members. If anyone can say that I have not, let him stand and say it now. I have always done that. I have always been willing to accept the friendship and the goodwill of honourable members, but it is a pretty difficult thing to do when I strike the attitude of some of the members who have been interjecting so often and so prolifically tonight. 
That the honourable member for Mallee be granted an extension of time. 
I do not think I want an extension because, after all, I would still have these interjections all the time from honourable members opposite trying to stop me telling the truth about the Budget and how it will benefit the people of Australia. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  it. must be understood that I did not empty the House because I had not been speaking. When a member is' speaking and the House empties, it may be the fault of that member. Nevertheless, now that members of ', the Australian Country Party are here in force it is all the better for rae. I compliment the honourable member for .Lang  (Mr Stewart)  on his speech. I thought that he gave a very reasoned contribution; When he began his speech he said he was surprised at the very moderate speech made by the Prime Minister and he complimented him. He said he had expected that the Prime Minister would make a rather fiery speech and that perhaps he would make personal attacks upon people. Courtesy must be catching because the honourable member for Lang acted in the same way as the Prime Minister. Very often his speeches are not moderate, but I compliment him on this speech on this occasion. As I say, courtesy is catching and it will flow on to me. I say once again: What a wonderful debating forum this would be if unjustifiable purpose attacks were not made by some members on other members in this House and if we fought only on the policies of the parties. 
I sat here in my seat and watched very carefully from the very outset when the Budget was presented. It was a very rewarding experience to watch the faces of members of the Opposition. As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  unfolded the wonderful benefits contained in the Budget I noticed that members of the Opposition took it in different ways. Some of them became quite pale, others sat without moving and others were fidgeting in their seats as the Treasurer unfolded the many benefits for the community. Members of the Opposition, after the Budget was read, were quite different people from what they had been before the Budget was read. Perhaps I could illustrate the point I want to make. A young man went to an artist and said: T want you to paint a portrait of my father'. The artist said: 'Yes, I will do that but it will be expensive'. The boy said: 'It does not matter about the money; I want a very good portrait of my father'. The artist said: 'Well, bring him along, let him sit for me and I will paint a portrait of him'. The boy said: T cannot do that; he is dead'. The artist said: This will be rather awkward but I have an idea. You come along twice a week for month and explain to me how your father looked - his moustache, hair, nose and everything about him - and I will paint a portrait of him - and I will paint a portrait from that.' The boy did this and on the last day he went to the artist to give his father's description, the artist said: *You come back tomorrow and I will unveil the portrait I have painted of your father and you will see it yourself. The boy went back the next day, sat right in front of the portrait and when he saw it he said: 'It is father all right but how he has changed'. That point can be made with the Opposition. It is the Opposition all right, I can see that, but how it has changed. 
Honourable members opposite do not now say: 'When we win the election' - and this is the point - they now say: 'If we win the election'. Instead of being so optimistic and arrogant about what will happen in the next Parliament the position has completely reversed. Even the best Labor man must admit that the Government has taken the initiative and that the Labor Party is trailing along waiting for the day when it will suffer another defeat. I have noticed very carefully, and I have listened to 26 Budget debates, that at this time the Labor Party usually quotes prolifically from newspaper articles. Honourable members opposite would say: 'Here is a piece from the "Sydney Morning Herald" ' or 'Here is something from the Melbourne "Age"*. Time after time they have done this. Have honourable members noticed that not one Opposition member this year has quoted from a newspaper? I do not know of one who has quoted from a newspaper to any extent. The simple reason for this is that they cannot quote from newspaper reports which are very favourable to a Budget that the Opposition is condemning. Therefore, the Press has robbed the Labor Party members of much of their speeches because they used to quote very prolifically from newspaper articles. 
Also Opposition members do not speak about the benefits that are provided in Budgets. All the time I have been in this House they have said that they want this and that and certain other benefits but have not mentioned the benefits that will be provided. I have worked out that this is because they are thinking: 'Why advertise our opponents?' I think that is a very good attitude and one I would advise all honourable members to adopt. When I go around campaigning in the Mallee electorate I never mention my opponent's name because I do not want to advertise him. The Labor Party does not want to advertise the Government, but the truth will out and the Budget is there for all the people to see. I think the Prime Minister acted correctly when he said that he would not have an early election because even now, after I have studied the Budget, I am finding every day some special benefit that has been provided in it for the people of Australia. Therefore if the Prime Minister calls an election after all the Budget provisions have been explained it will be a certainty that the Government will come back into office. 
I do not want to go into the Budget in fine detail although I could if I had time. There is only one special item to which I want to refer and of which the people of Australia should take notice. Some honourable members may recall that I asked the Prime Minister whether he would hold a referendum on socialism and ask the people whether they wanted to be governed by socialist rule. I say to the people of Australia, the Opposition and the Government tonight that the main question today is: Do we want to be governed by socialists and live under socialist rule? And let us not forget that the Government is all powerful in this country. It can rescind laws, it can amend laws and it can introduce new Bills; it is almost all powerful. Therefore, do we want the socialists to have control? 1 do not think we do in any circumstances. We in the Country Party and honourable members generally have all been very keen on the Australian Wheat Board, the Australian Wool Board and any other authority exercising producer control. Such control is very good indeed. But even the Wheat Board, if it wants to pay a certain figure for the first payment on wheat, has to get permission from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  - in other words, from the Government. If the Labor Party were in power, would it give permission for the price that the Wheat Board recommends to be paid? 
How did socialism act in the New Zealand wheat deal? What did any wheat authority know about it, when the sale was made? Nothing. It was not until we had asked questions day after day in this House that finally it had to be admitted that the sale had been made to New Zealand without the knowledge of the wheat growers or the Australian wheat authority and at a price that was much lower than the then current price and which became less favourable to the grower as time went by. I have written down one or two questions that I want to ask, just as though it were question time. The first question is: Why is it that the Labor Party has occupied the treasury bench for less than 17 years in the 72 years since federation? 
 I had intended to put a question to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  yesterday or today but as it was not my turn to get the call I was unable to do it. I would like to refer to that question now. The question would have read as follows: 1 am informed that there has been a sharp rise in the price of ammunition supplied by the Department of the Army to Victorian rifle clubs. As rifle clubs come under the administration of the Department of the Army and in this House, the Minister for the Army, I ask: Will the Minister make investigations with a view to reducing the price of this ammunition to a reasonable level? 
I am sure the Minister will .know that nuclear means of warfare and long range guns have not made the rifle obsolete. I happen to be the  President  of the North Western Rifle Club Union in Victoria, lt comprises a fine body of men. Every Saturday they hold rifle shoots. It is pointed out to me by  Mr Walter  Chivell, who is a very prominent rifleman, that if the price goes up - it is about 8c a shot now which is too dear - it will become a rich man's hobby and many of the smaller, weaker clubs will have to close. 
Although we have nuclear warfare and that sort of thing now the rifle is not obsolete because once you are at war and you take a position, you have to hold it. Generally speaking, it is held by rifle fire. The riflemen move in. Rifle clubs were formed at the outset to train young men. to handle  a  rifle and to shoot accurately. After all, if a man is not trained he would not be very valuable in matters of defence. A lot of people say that there is no need to worry about defence because this country could not be invaded. They say that it could not happen here. Of course it could happen here. We should be ever ready to defend this nation, otherwise it is possible that it could fall to a foreign foe and we could be slaves to that foe in future years. So it is necessary that we keep the rifle clubs active. To the members it is a hobby or a sport, but they are also doing it for the nation because a rifle club with well trained men might be invaluable to this country at some time in the future. I ask the Minister to investigate the position with a view to having the price of ammunition for rifle clubs reduced to a reasonable level. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. As there has been little information on the subject recently, I ask: What progress has been made in the building of the proposed Dartmouth dam? Can the Minister say when it is envisaged that this project will be completed and operative? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. There has been discussion in the Mallee electorate regarding the proposed Omega navigational aid station, chiefly in regard to where it will be located. Can the Minister supply information on his subject? 
 First of all I want to refer to what has been said but I do not want to find fault with anything said by anyone in this place tonight. The proposition which I will put is not put with a view to getting votes as I am not nominating for the next election. Most honourable members who have spoken in this debate - I say this in the best of goodwill - have asked that cer tain things be done which if they are done will benefit their electorate and therefore will be of benefit to them. This is only a natural sequence of events with an election coming on. I do not know any more about aircraft travel and servicing than those honourable members whom I heard speak in this debate; that is a certainty. Every time the Estimates comes up for debate honourable members make practically the same speeches on various subjects. 
I am fortified by having in my hand a pamphlet written by a  Mr George  Tilley, a journalist who lives in Mildura. He is a man who is always trying to do things for his area and for Australia. He points out in this pamphlet that 'Mildura could be the hub of air travel'. He says straight out in this pamphlet that the large airports at Sydney and Melbourne will become obsolete before very long because as the cities spread out the increased noise which has been complained about by honourable members tonight would seem to indicate that it is not right to have aeroplanes operating at those airports.  Mr Tilley  points out a few things which I want to read. I will read this, because it is a pamphlet. He says: 
Mildura as the international airport for Australia in the future ... is something for which a case should be prepared . . . 
Adelaide cannot make an international airport of its main airport at West Beach, because it cannot expand enough. 
Why should Mildura be considered as the site for the next international airport? 
A look at the map on this page will explain. 
Honourable members cannot see the map and the listeners to this broadcast cannot see it. I point out that the map shows that Mildura is located in the corner of  3  States and that between Perth and Sydney a direct line goes right through Mildura and from Darwin to Melbourne a direct line goes right through Mildura. The pamphlet continues: 
Mildura is the most central point for the populated area of Australia. An international port with feeder services could provide fast coverage for 80 per cent of the nation's population. 
The map is drawn chiefly to show that big jets coming from overseas could go to Mildura and then smaller planes which would not make so much noise could take the people to their destination whether it be 
Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide, Canberra, Melbourne or Perth. The pamphlet then continues: 
The map shows that aircraft between Sydney and Perth, and between Melbourne and Darwin, fly directly over Mildura. 
Flights between Brisbane and Adelaide, if they ever become a direct route, would be only 50 miles north of Mildura. 
Those from Canberra to the west would fly just south of Mildura. 
So already, Mildura is a vital point on the map for trans-Australia flights. 
No other place could offer a better hub for air travel throughout Australia. 
Mildura has no ground hazards for aircraft landing and talcing off. 
There are no mountains to get in the way. 
Weather conditions for flying are better here than in most places in Australia - as the RAAF knew when it used Mildura as an advanced training base during the war. 
No other city in Australia is located better for road links with the capital cities than is Mildura - if overseas visitors want to use roads to get to the capitals. 
In using our roads visitors would see the scenery and they would get to know Australia. The pamphlet continues: 
If they want to use rail it would need only a new railway to Broken Hill to link Mildura with the nation, via the direct Sydney-Perth railway. 
Mildura's existing airport would not be used because it is almost fully utilised now, but with 10,000 acres of land available one could be built within a few miles of the existing airport where most of the facilities for a start would be available. This is not just a dream. The pamphlet proceeds: 
Australia's aviation controllers know that operation of aircraft on night schedules must come if Australia is to move passengers as they should be moved. 
Night movement is not appreciated over big cities- 
We heard that from honourable members tonight:  but it would cause little concern from an airport eight or nine miles out of Mildura. 
The establishment of such an airport would be a real decentralisation move. Most of the speeches I have listened to tonight expressed the idea of having an international airport somewhere further out from the cities but the cities are moving towards them all the time. Honourable members may be able to see the cover page of this pamphlet which is titled Think Big for an International Airport at Mildura*. 
1 have spoken on this subject only once before. Those people who want to get an airport near their electorates will ridicule what this pamphlet suggests but it is worth looking into. If I cannot get honourable members to take much notice of what I have said then I ask the experts on aviation in Australia to take note, to make inspections and to look at this proposition for it is one that Australia cannot afford to pass by without making investigations and going into the finest points.  Mr Tilley,  who wrote this article, believes that this is what must happen if Australia is to overcome all those difficulties about which honourable members have spoken tonight. If we are to attract from overseas in big jets visitors to Australia they can be landed at Mildura and taken straight away, quick and lively to the capital cities by planes which would not cause any trouble with noise or by flying at night. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the States 
Grants (Fruit Growing Reconstruction) Bill 1972. Can the provisions of this Bill be invoked to assist growers in the dried vine fruits and citrus fruits industries if it became necessary because of over production, marketing difficulties or some other adverse circumstances? 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr Speaker.  In referring this question to you I am confident that you will not regard it as being below your dignity. Included in the groups of school children which visited Parliament House last week were scholars from the high school at Merbein, Victoria. After being in this House, the Senate chamber and Kings Hall a boy from this school, evidently impressed, asked my private secretary,  Mrs Major:  'Is this building insured?' Will you,  Mr Speaker,  please give some information on this subject? 
 I have listened very carefully to the remarks of the shadow Minister, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and have found that he has suddenly taken a great interest in country areas and decentralisation. 
I had the pleasure of listening to his replies to questions he was asked during  a  broadcast a few days ago, perhaps a week ago. I was most impressed with his sincerity and honesty about his position. I appreciated what he had to say. Among other things he said: 'I am a city man and know little about country conditions'. He advocated the building of more houses in the fringe areas of the cities so as not to place people at the disadvantage of having to make long journeys to their places of employment. I think he will agree that I am quite correct in saying that. 
I am not looking for votes, as honourable members know I am retiring at the end of this Parliament. I suggest to the honourable member for Reid that he would be well advised to visit country areas and discuss with country people these matters with which he is concerned. 
The very basis of the subject that the member for Reid has spoken of with regard to decentralisation is politics, and the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1966 is the basis of politics in this regard. I have in my hand a copy of that Act. It depends on how Electoral Divisions are framed when a redistribution is being made. We all know that at given periods a census is held to determine the number of people there are in Australia, and that the number of people is divided in order to arrive on a quota. I have frequently spoken on this subject. I suppose I have not missed participating in one debate on the estimates of the Department of the Interior for 20 years. 
What I am saying may be considered to be tedious repetition, but there is a break of 12 months between each such speech. The Electoral Act states: in making any proposed distribution of a State into divisions, the Distribution Commissioners shall so determine the proposed divisions that each division contains a number of electors not exceeding, or falling short of, the quota of electors by more than one-fifth of the quota'. 
Let me give you an illustration. Let us assume that the quota is 60,000. One-fifth above that number would be 72,000, and for a quota of 50,000 it would be 40,000. Therefore, for a quota of 50,000 relative figures would be 60,000 and 40,000. 
I have mentioned for a long time that these figures should be applied as 72,000 for city electorates and 48,000 for country electorates. Honourable members have said that I want votes for rabbits and kangaroos but this has only been to draw attention away from what I am saying. As far as the redistribution of electorates is concerned I coined the phrase 'decentralisation of political representation' as the only true means of satisfactory decentralisation of population. 
Until we get the redistribution to which I have referred people will continue to move away from country areas. The honourable member for Wills has just interjected, but if a proposal were put forward for a factory to be moved from his electorate to the Mallee, his constituents would come to him saying: 'Do not let it go out of our area. If this industry is taken away from our electorate we will suffer', and the honourable member for Wills will be the first one to step in and fight for his constituents and try to keep the factory in his electorate. He is entitled to do that as a member of Parliament. 
I desire that the Electoral Act be amended to provide for a larger quota of electors in the metropolitan areas and a smaller number elsewhere. At the present time the ratio in this Parliament in favour of metropolitan areas is at least 2 to 1. As a result the city areas get more amenities with a snowballing effect, for the man in the country says: 'I cannot get jobs for my boys or girls here and my job is a bit shaky owing to the way the population is moving'. He then also moves to the city and when there is a redistribution a little later he and his family of voting age are taken into consideration. 
I believe that the decentralisation of political representation is necessary. All the talk about 'One vote, one value' is a fallacy. Look at the position in the Senate. Tasmania, which has just under 400,000 people has the same number of representatives in the Senate as New South Wales which has 41 million people. Can any Labor member tell me how that is 'one vote, one value'? 
It has been said by a member of the Labor Party that Labor would abolish the Senate. The Labor Party, however, has had the opportunity but has made no move towards abolishing the Senate. 
Why do these questions crop up only at election time? Why are gimmicks in this regard only raised then? I am making these remarks today in the hope that those who will be organising and those who will be attending the conference of the Constitution, which it is said will be held next May, will take some of the points I have raised into consideration. 1 am not against an equal number of senators representing each State. In fact I approve of it. but if it is a fair thing to have equal Senate representation of the States within a nation, surely it is a fair thing to have similar opportunity of House of Representative membership within a State. 
Give the metropolitan areas and their fringe area up to say 30 miles from the centre of the cities a certain amount of electorates and give the areas beyond the same number of electorates. Under this system country representation would at least have the opportunity of creating decentralisation. 
I understand that most people believe that the Constitution is right in giving all States the same number of senators, but I repeat that it should be right to have the chance of equal House of Representative representation within a State. 
I know that the whole foundation of the question of decentralisation is political. Therefore the Electoral Act should be amended and brought up to date to fulfil the requirement of a growing country like Australia. 

 Mr UREN (Reid) -  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Sir WINTON TURNBULL (Mallee)--  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, but not deliberately. I appreciate the honourable member for Reid saying that I did not misrepresent him deliberately. I dealt only with the first part of what he said. I did not deal with the second part. I listened to him on the radio and he advocated strongly the building of homes on the fringes of metropolitan areas. The reason he gave is in my mind. It was that workers would not have to travel such long distances as they would have to travel if they lived at, say, Sunbury outside Melbourne or somewhere like that. The other part of the story I did not tell. He has told it now. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The only thing we are concerned about is a misrepresentation that may have occurred in the Parliament this morning, not what occurred on a radio session. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Certain Victorian shire councils have expressed dissatisfaction with the distribution of grants under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act for rural or unclassified roads. I therefore ask: Does the distribution of these funds by the States meet the requirements of the Commonwealth Act? 
I would like to say Thank you' to all those people I have come in contact with since I have been a member over 26 years and 8 months. I will not mention any names. I do not think this is right. I thank all those people for the goodwill they have extended to me and for the friendship and consideration - consideration is one thing I want a lot of - they have shown. I want to thank them also for their co-operation. I appreciate it from every member. There  is  a thing called life's greatest gift. Did anyone ever think about what life's greatest gift is? 
 There is one thing certain tonight and that is that I am not going to make a political speech. We have heard a modest political speech just now. When I get over this point I want to say a few things about the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  and about minerals and other resources. There is no guarantee or indication that the Opposition would do better than the present Government has done in developing or conserving our resources. In this Parliament I have always dealt with policies, not personalities, and on this, the last night I will be in this Parliament, I am not going to change my policy. I want to say - this is as far as I will go with politics - that in the past the Australian Labor Party has never been in office long enough to do anything, except during the war period. It has been in office for less than 17 years in the 72 years since Federation. Tt did not stay long on any occasion it was elected. One can take off the 3 or 4 years the Labor Party was in office in each war and one sees that Labor has never remained long in office. It has been like a man in the sea and just about drowned, who had to be pulled on to the beach and resuscitated. A Liberal-Country Party government, or one of a similar political complexion, always had to come in and resuscitate the economy. 
Let me get away from politics altogether. I compliment the Minister for quite a lot of things he has done. Ever since he came into Parliament he has been a tremendously likeable fellow, not only in this Parliament but also when he went into the electorate to meet the people. On several occasions he has come into the electorate I represent. The people liked him immediately. They liked him very much. I have found that the longer one knows him the better one likes him. That is the sort of person we need to have here. The issue before the Chair concerns such things as what happened in relation to the Dartmouth Dam. I have asked in this House on several occasions how the building of the proposed Dartmouth Dam was proceeding. The Minister has always given me details of what was happening. I appreciated his handling of the Dartmouth Dam and the Chowilla Dam projects, when honourable members on one side of the House wanted to have something done and honourable members on the other side wanted something else. I will not go into detail on that. The people who were in the House at the time know what happened. The Minister played a mighty part in this House and he played it most impartially, because he supported the experts. There were men in this House who said that the Chowilla Dam should be built, but the men who really knew - the experts on the job - said that Dartmouth Dam would give better, clearer and more water more cheaply. Somebody said that at the very outset I supported the Chowilla Dam. That was true too, because the experts thought that was the best. But on a more detailed investigation it was found that Dartmouth was better and I supported that. I did not change my mind. I was not being inconsistent. To be consistent is not in keeping to one opinion but in being willing to change your mind if you see reason to do so. Surely the reason was good enough because the experts were saying that the Dartmouth Dam would give Adelaide sufficient water. But some people did not want water for Adelaide; they wanted to get a Premier in and they got him in. 
I wish to refer to water conservation which is a matter very dear to the heart of the Minister. I have always said in this House that we must have priorities. Most honourable members agree with that but some of their priorities are not the same as mine. 1 have said that the first priority in this nation is defence. It is of no use having Dartmouth or Chowilla Dam or a democratic government or all those amenities which people long to have if we cannot protect them. If an invader came to this country we could fall at his feet and become slaves to a foreign power. Not many people have seen a nation take over another nation but 1 have and so has the Minister. My No. 1 priority is defence. 
My No. 2 priority is primary industry, asociated in many cases with water conservation. People say: 'What about education and other amenities?' Education is made possible by money that a nation can make from its exports and other avenues. The greatest export factor in this country has been our primary industry. If we have the money we can make possible the provision of education and all those things which build nations. Therefore we should have water conservation combined with primary industry as a top priority. Although minerals did seem to move ahead for a while primary industry is back on its pedestal. Primary industry has been the greatest factor in the building of this nation. I believe it is still the greatest factor in maintaining the stability of our economy in these days. 
I have continually advocated the piping of water. Only recently the Minister visited 
Mildura, the nearby Millawa district and west of Red Cliffs where I would say the first reasonably big project for the conservation of water by piping is under way. It has been said by  Mr East,  who was head of the State Rivers and Water Commission in Victoria, that in certain parts of the Mallee electorate which I represent  95  per cent of the water was lost after it left the storage and before it reached the consumer through seepage and evaporation.  Mr Fast  is a man whose word you can take on this subject because he is an expert and :s not prone to giving the wrong information. I am putting this to the House at this late stage of my time in this Parliament.  1  believe that we must have water conservation by piping it.  1  have not heard many people advocating this system. I have had a pretty lonely job in this respect. 
Water is an essential item in this country, as everybody knows. It is advantageous to build a dam like the Dartmouth Dam because certain water would drain into it from certain sources and we can make use of it. But if you cannot fill these dams with water what will happen? What we should do is to have a system whereby we can make the best use of the water that we can conserve. You cannot conserve water in a dry year. In a wet year you do not need to conserve it as much as you do in a dry year. Everybody knows that.  1  represent  70  per cent of the dried fruits industry, and the citrus industry. All these industries require water to bring about prolific growth. We do not only need to have prolific growth. The man on the land must have security and he will never get it in this country unless we have water piped. This would enable water to be taken to irrigated pastures and not just for domestic vise. A pipeline could take the water to the pastures. I believe that this Government, the next government or any other government must push for the piping of water if we are to get the best out of this naturally endowed country. 
I say to the Minister in closing: 'congratulations on the work you have done for this nation in this Parliament'. 
 1  will not answer the interjection because if I do it will appear in Hansard. 
If an honourable member does not answer an interjection it does not appear in Hansard. 
What  has  been said may be taken by some people as being the truth but I treat it with the contempt that it deserves. I say to the Minister: May you have a very happy reirement although I cannot see you retiring. I think you will be doing something, because you are too active and you are a comparatively young man. I wish you every good fortune in the future. I extend to you goodwill as you have extended it to me and to other members of this Parliament.' I was about to wish the Minister good luck. I believe it is not a matter of luck but a matter of work. As Rudyard Kipling said: 'If any nation builds up to a great height of excellence, it is not because of the individual or the Army as a whole; it is because of the everlasting teamwork of every bloomin' soul.' The Minister is a leader. I wish him good fortune and good health. 
Let me rephrase the question. What is life's greatest gift? Somebody said good health. In Pentridge Gaol and gaols all over the country are men whom no-one can fault for their physical condition; but they are no good to this country or to any country. I have asked what is life's greatest gift and some have said: 'To be a great singer'. I discarded that suggestion. All manner of things were suggested but I did not get the correct answer until I spoke to a certain gentleman who said: 'Look, Winton, you should know what life's greatest gift is. It ls the will to serve, not the capacity'. We do not all have the same capacity but the will to serve, I believe, is life's greatest gift. 
A certain lady came to me one day and said that a certain gentleman in the Parliament should be Prime Minister. I knew that thai member did not have my chance of being Prime Minister. If a list had been made of all members this member - a nice gentleman who is not here now - would have been near the bottom of it. But this lady thought he was a great man who should be Prime Minister so to console honourable members I put it that so far as they arc concerned: 
Someone thinks that you are great, Lasting spur to conquer fate. 
I think that all honourable members would agree with the following lines: 
We'd like to think ere life is done 
That we have filled a needed post 
That here and there we've paid our fare 
With more than idle talk and boasts 
That wc have taken gifts divine 
The breath of life and manhood fine 
And t, ied to use them now and then 
In service to our fellow men. 
