I direct a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Further to the reply that the Prime Minister has just given to the Leader of the Opposition, can the right honourable gentleman give a firm assurance that the Australian Government has no intention of changing* its policy of not recognising the Smith regime as the legitimate government of Rhodesia? 
My question is directed  to the Attorney-General. The honourable gentleman will recall that following the stock exchange rampage in the United States of America which precipitated the great depression of 1930,  President  Roosevelt appointed  Mr Joseph  Kennedy as  Chairman  of the Securities Exchange Commission which the  President  then set up. This Commission has functioned very effectively since, particularly because  Mr Joseph  P. Kennedy- 

 - Mr Speaker, I have risen to take part in this debate to put one small point, though not an insignificant one, in direct relationship to the Bill before the House, though not relating to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill which will be dealt with later. 1 am constrained to make some comments upon the speech of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  He is a virtuoso in the art of walking the political tightrope.  His  speech reminded me very much of Satan reproving sin. What warning did the honourable member give about the difficulties of the wheat industry? He said that 5 years ago these difficulties were visible. Now, I suspect that if in fact the honourable member had said anything significant at that time he would have quoted it today. T do not know because I am not an expert in this field. I have more wool growers than wheat growers in the Bradfield electorate. But the honourable member said nothing and T take it that his warnings were not loud and clear 5 years ago or in the intervening period. 
The honourable member for Dawson has not been a model of financial rectitude in regard to the rural industries and rural interests. If I remember rightly he was a great champion of the Ord River scheme which is costing, if it is ever completed - I trust it never will be completed - about. SI 00m. He made no objections then about the waste of large money, a phrase which he used in connection with the present Bill. 
It was not his responsibility but he has been reproving the Government and saying that it did not do these things. If the honourable member had produced evidence that he had seen them he would have shown the superior wisdom of the Labor Party. That wisdom was not shown. Nevertheless he was quite prepared to make a little political capital out of the present Bill, although the Opposition pro- poses to support it. For example, theonourable member for Dawson said that it will take some time to dispose of the 1968-69 crop and that therefore wheat growers will get no further payment until 1971. That is jolly good stuff. One can always make a little bit of capital out of this kind of situation. So he wobbled over to the other side of the tightrope. He said that the reduction in the quota that small farmers may sell will be very distressing to them. Again he can make a little bit of political capital out of this. 
Then - and now you can see the crocodile through the tears - he said that he is a little bit concerned about the taxpayers. Usually the honourable member is not at all concerned about the taxpayers. I think he would glory in the fact if more could be spent on the rural industries at the expense of the taxpayers and he would support such a proposal to the nth degree. Therefore I say that honourable members can see the crocodile through the tears. But then, in contradictory fashion, he went on and said that after all the taxpayers would not have to pay very much, only 3c a bushel. I have not been able to do the arithmetic involved but I suspect that it would be not a small sum of money but a large sum of money. The honourable member for Dawson referred to the fact that the wheat industry is in credit owing to the situation that followed World War II. He did not mention, of course, that that situation was entirely due to a Labor government which began a policy of stabilisation at the very time when wheat could have been sold very profitably. It was the then Labor Government which prevented it from being so sold. 
I do not want to bother any longer with the honourable member for Dawson because I did not rise to deal with him. I rose because I want to ma.ke a small point directly relevant to the Bill before the House. What is this Bill all about? The Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  in introducing it, said in his second reading speech: 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligations under  a  Commonwealth guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia, in respect of wheat from the 1968-69 crop. To assist in the marketing of that crop, arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $624m from the Rural Credits Department of the Bank. 
At what rates did the Australian Wheat Board borrow from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia and have those rates been increased since? I direct my question to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  who is sitting at the table. Decorative though the Minister is, he has a function to perform - that is why he sits at the table. I want to know from him - if he does not know, perhaps he can find out from one of the officers of the relevant department - what are the interest rates charged by the Rural Credits Department of the Bank for borrowings of this kind? The Minister does not answer. No doubt he will find out for me. Has the amount been increased in common with other rates of interest that have been increased quite recently? I do not expect the Minister to carry this information in his head and I will continue while he is ascertaining the actual figure. 
My understanding, at any rate, is that it is a very concessional rate when compared with what other traders have to pay if they have to borrow for this kind of purpose - that is, to carry them over until their product is sold. They have to borrow at a much higher rate of interest. Therefore the wheat industry is receiving a further concession apart from the subsidy which the honourable member for Dawson so airily dismissed. I do not know whether it has been increased recently or whether that concession has been carried further inasmuch as the wheat industry is perhaps the only borrower which does not have its rates increased. The Treasurer, in his second reading speech, went on to say: 
This will mean that, for the first time since the wheat stabilisation scheme was introduced over 20 years ago, the Commonwealth will be called upon under the guarantee. 
This should be a warning light if for the first time for 20 years the guarantee becomes an actuality and the taxpayer has to come good on the guarantee, quite apart from the concessional rate of interest available to the wheat industry. The Treasurer went on to state: 
The Board currently expects that its indebtedness to the Bank . . . as at 31st March 1970 will be in the vicinity of $250m . . . that recoupment of this amount from subsequent sales of wheat . . . will take over IS mouths. 
Now this, as the honourable member for Dawson said - and I entirely agree with him - is large money and this should make us look carefully at what is happening in the wheat industry. This Bill provides that 'the loan to the Wheat Board may be made available on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer  determines'.  The Treasurer went on to say: 
It is intended that the rate of interest . . . will be the same as the rate charged for Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on the date the loan is made. 
In other words the wheat industry will be no worse off by reason of the fact that the taxpayer comes to the rescue than it would have been had it not had to borrow beyond the powers of the Rural Credits Department of the Bank. It will not be disadvantaged in any way. Usually, in financial affairs, when a borrower is not able to repay at the due time he finds that he is in effect punished by having to pay a higher rate of interest as a warning that this kind of thing cannot continue indefinitely. But that is not so in the case of the wheat industry. That is what this Bill is all about. But the real point I rose to make is this: If you have something like a $250m increase in demand - money put into the pockets of people who can spend it, into the pockets of wheat growers - and there is no corresponding increase in the goods available to be purchased, you have an inflationary situation of no mean order when you consider the magnitude of the sums involved. 
Now, true, this will be repaid no doubt, as the Minister suggests, over a period of 18 months. The amount will be diminishing over that period, but we start with a very large sum of money. If the wheat had been sold overseas, credits would have been available to Australia overseas. It would have been possible for goods to be brought into Australia purchased with those overseas funds. In other words, the money put into the pockets of the wheat growers would have been matched by an increased supply of goods by way of imports purchased with the proceeds of the sale of wheat overseas. But, if the wheat is not sold overseas, if there are no credits in our account there, if we cannot import these goods, we have a highly inflationary situation because we have increased demands through the pockets of wheat growers but we have not increased the supply of goods. lt may be that mineral exports are important, lt may be that  we do  not have a balance of payments problem at this moment although there may be some strains developing. But the situation is one that should not go unchallenged. It is something that ought to be pointed out. This House and responsible people in the country ought to take note of the fact that this situation is one that cannot continue indefinitely. There are many other reasons why the present position should not continue. 1 have confined myself to one matter, to one factor only - a factor that is directly relevant to this Bill. 
How has the situation come about? I. merely want to mention this in passing. The average harvest of the last 3 years was 428 million bushels, exceeding the average harvest of the first 3 years of the 1960s by more than 50%. Federal legislation made wheat growing practically inflation proof, which must have had a vital influence on the selection of land used by a practical farmer. The honourable member for Dawson has referred to this. He would know all about it. Did he issue all these warnings when he knew these things as he knows them so well? He has remained silent. One of the main reasons for the declining world wheat trade - from 2,300 million bushels in 1955-56 to 1,700 million bushels in 1968-69 and possible further decline to 1,500 million bushels in 1969-70 - was the remarkable success of the 'green revolution' in many food deficient countries, such as India and Pakistan. High yielding varieties of wheat, rice, maize and millet have dramatically increased the food supply in many countries, and Pakistan has even become an exporter of wheat. India is confidently expecting to be self sufficient in wheat by 1972. New Zealand, one of Australia's time honoured customers, has become a competitor of Australia on the Asian market, although in a very minor way. The world wheat situation of the 1970s will be very different from that of the 1960s. Maybe the taxpayer will never be repaid. Maybe the wheat growers will be happy in 1970 in spite of what the honourable member for Dawson says, and it will be for the taxpayers to carry the baby. Who knows? 
World wheat stocks have been increasing since 1965-66 from 1,300 million bushels to about 2,250 million bushels in mid 1969. This is the world's stock of unsold wheat. This means that the world carryover is much larger than all the wheat entering international trade in a whole year. What is needed, of course, is not for me to say in debating this Bill. I am merely drawing attention to the disastrous situation in the wheat industry, a matter on which the Opposition had nothing to say in a practical and constructive way. The Opposition has sought simply to extract all the political capital it might out of the situation. But we cannot go on any longer. I have merely taken the opportunity, in debating this Bill, to point out one of the unfortunate aspects directly relevant to the Bill now before the House, namely, the inflationary pressures that it increases upon the Australian economy. 

 - Sir, I feel that I should say a word on this question about the rate of interest and on what the Treasurer may or may not be able to say about it. This matter to me is plain. It appears from the second reading speech of the Treasurer on this Bill that the loan will have to be made on 31st March 1970. That is the date when the Rural Credits Department would expect the indebtedness to it to be discharged. It is for this reason that the Government must come to the rescue by providing the money to repay the Rural Credits Department. Therefore, we are in this position. Today is 10th March. On 31st March the loan will be made. The Treasurer has said quite specifically that the rate of interest for this advance will be the rate that is prevailing at the date when the loan is made. That is 31st March, in 3 weeks time. It is conceivable that the rate could increase. Rates generally could increase in the interval. 
Yes. There may be no intention to do this. In that case you may ask why the Treasurer should not inform us. There is a good reason why he should not. If he did so he would be giving notice to every borrower that rates generally will not increase before 31st March. No responsible Treasurer can do this. He cannot give notice in advance that no rates will increase between now and 31st March, although there may be no intention whatever that they shall. Let us understand the responsibilities of the Treasurer. I do not known the position, because I speak merely from a general knowledge of the way the finances of this country are handled, but I say that this is a fiddling point that has been taken up by the Opposition. It has tried to seize upon some stick with which to beat the Government, well knowing, because I have told it, why the Treasurer's hands are tied; why his tongue is tied at this time. Exploit the situation with all the greed to which you appeal. Exploit it if you will, but let it be known that you are merely exploiting a man who has a responsibility not to speak at this point of time. Let it be known that in your cowardly way you are exploiting the Minister, who has a responsibility in this matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member for Bradfield to withdraw. 
I did not refer to anybody in particular. I said that the Opposition has been cowardly. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I take it that the- 
Motion (by  Mr Nixon)  proposed: 
That the  question  be now put. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! The motion has been proposed That the question be now put'. Will those who are of that opinion say 'Aye'? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! I take it that the motion is agreed to. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Is a division required? 

 - Mr Speaker, the House is debating now the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech addressed to the Parliament last week. That Speech represented the Government's programme for the current session and it was followed by a speech from the Leader of the Opposition in this place  (Mr Whitlam)  in which he set out in effect the counter programme of the Opposition. 1 will not occupy a great deal of my time in adverting to the speech of the 
Leader of the Opposition. But it is right that I should devote at least some part of my speech to comments upon what he said. 

 Sir, the Leader of the Opposition set out the shining goals of the Opposition for the 1970s. He mounted his chariot of fire. He took out his bow of burning gold. He told us about the future that the Australian Labor Party had in store for this country. Now, one of the wheels of his chariot was missing. He said nothing really about the defence of this country. If this country is not defended and if there is no security, all the other shining goals are impossible of achievement. I do not propose to speak at great length on the question of defence or the lack of defence arrangements as put forward by the Leader of the Opposition because we have just had a defence statement from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolmn Fraser)  and this will be debated next week. That will be the appropriate time to go into details on the matter of defence. So, I leave this for the time being, beyond pointing out that the chariot of fire that the Leader of the Opposition wheeled out has one of its wheels missing. 
We will all hear. Perhaps the honourable member for Adelaide will hear too. He might even learn. It may be that, on occasions, reeking tube and iron shard are more effective than the bow of burning gold. We will hear about that, as the honourable member says, next week. Even the Swedes and the Swiss know that no country that hopes to be neutral can simply say that it is not involved. The Swedes and the Swiss know that if a country is going to be neutral it must arm to the teeth. Nothing of this sort has been said by the Leader of the Opposition in trotting out his neutralist policy. 
I pass on from this. I will not deal with foreign affairs now because the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  will be making a statement in the near future and the appropriate time to debate our alliances and arrangements in regard to foreign countries is in the debate on that statement. So, I pass on from the external field to the internal field. The Leader of the Opposition began with philosophy. 1 will not spend a great deal of time on these transcendental matters of philosophy, except to say this: The honourable gentleman said that the very keynote of the policy of the Opposition in internal affairs was equality. This is a splendid battle cry and a wonderful banner to wave aloft. But I think that the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  in his maiden speech in this place last week, said some wise things on this matter. Equality, up to a point, is fine. I repeat 'up to a point'. But, excellence also should have a place in this country. Without excellence on the part of some there can be no progress for the many. I think that was the burden of the speech by the honourable member for Denison. Henry Fords are as rare as great poets - even great philosophers. Without such people there can be no progress for the whole of society. If there are to be no prizes - and equality means no prizes - these people do not emerge and the whole community suffers as the result. Excellence is just as important as equality. 
So I say that up to a point equality is important. But if you reach the stage where everybody is reduced to the same level and there are no prizes for excellence, the whole community must suffer. We have produced no great poets - no Shakespeares or anybody of that kind. We have produced no Einsteins. You may say that those were people not concerned with material rewards; to be a great poet or a great mathematician was enough in itself. Yet I suspect that Einstein was very comfortable at Princeton notwithstanding. We should not be complacent about this matter of equality. Equality is fine up to a point but only up to a point. We have not produced a Plato or a Socrates. Perhaps some day we shall. I hope that we will not forever be a kind of hick republic, which I think is the beau ideal of the Leader of the Opposition. I pass from these transcendental matters of philosophy except to say that of course the great thing is not dead flat equality but some prizes. The honourable member for Denison made it clear that what we really sought was equality of opportunity. But then he pointed out that this is something no government can give. You cannot give to everybody the background of a home. Equality of opportunity is an impossibility; it cannot be provided. You provide it as far as you can. So even when you come to equality of opportunity, it is possible only up to a point. I shall return in another context to deal with these transcendental! matters of philosophy. 
I pass on to the great problems - firstly of primary industry, secondly of secondary industry and then to certain other very important matters. I take first primary industry. I believe that we now face a crisis in primary industry. Wool is no longer what it was. It is meeting serious competition from synthetics. Wheat is being grossly overproduced and there are difficulties in selling it. We have been selling butter at a loss for years. On the horizon is the possibility of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, which would stilt further restrict our markets. This, as I say, is a crisis. What are we doing about it? We have had plenty of time to prepare - to re-organise. We have known that the Common Market would be highly detrimental to us. Have we met this situation? I do not believe we have. What is required is a complete restructuring and reorganisation of the industries involved so as to make them viable. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is nothing if not rational and courageous, has suggested the establishment of something parallel to the Tariff Board - a primary industries board whose task it would be to look into the primary industries and to consider how they should be re-organised and restructured to meet a completely new situation. If we blind our eyes to the situation we will be doing no service to those engaged in these industries. I would be generous about this. I would be glad to see funds made liberally available provided they are used for re-organisation and restructuring and are not provided merely as subsidies designed to continue to the production of things we cannot sell. I say no more on this aspect. The honourable member for Wakefield can say these things much better than I and with an authority that I do not possess. 
Let me pass on to the secondary industries. Here I include minerals. Although technically a primary industry, the minerals industry is a secondary industry in essentials because it involves a great deal of capital and machinery and all the other things with which we associate secondary industries. We throw out our chests and say how fortunate we are to have these minerals, and so we are. But does anybody think more of the Arabs because they happen to have oil under the desert sands? No. We could be proud if we were developing these things ourselves, but how much of the technical know-how is being provided by Australians? How much of the managerial ability required and how much of the things that really matter in this field are things about which we can boast? Very little indeed, I suggest. This is a matter for technical training of our geologists, geophysicist and others, and we are not doing it to the degree that is necessary. Above all it is a matter for managerial training. True, a committee has been set up to look into this matter. Every university in Australia wants to start a school of business management. We have fallen into the usual old muddle. Plainly a country as small as ours cannot hope to have more than one or two of something of the standard of the Harvard School of Business Administration. Well, the committee is a beginning. Many horses have already bolted out of the stable door, but never mind: we are starting, if late in the piece. 1 turn to research. Much has been done to aid research into secondary industry. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has busied itself producing a tropical cow - a cow that can be depastured, or whatever you do with cows, in Queensland and which can produce more butter that we cannot sell. It may have been better if the CSIRO had devoted its energies to secondary industry, particularly the minerals industry, because this is the great new industry we have, yet we are still living in the days of tropical cows. What is the position regarding overseas capital? The Government has spoken about some Industrial Development Corporation. I do not propose to say anything about this until I see the small print, but I cannot help believing that there may be other and better ways of doing what we wish to do - involve Australians more in the field of big business and not leave it to foreigners to exploit our country. This is a matter of means, not ends. I take it that we all are agreed about the ends, but until we see the small print we will not know about the means. 
I have spoken about external affairs and in a general way about primary industry and secondary industry. I turn now to possibly one of the most important aspects of government affairs in this country. I refer to Commonwealth and State financial relations - in the 1970s let us remember, not the 1900s. There is the Party aspect, and I would not intrude this upon the House but that it has an important bearing on national considerations - the safety and the future of this nation; nothing less. For this reason I refer to the domestic situation in the Liberal Party which, I regret to say, is conducting a fratricidal and suicidal war. I regret it not only for the sake of the Party but for the sake of the nation. It is impossible to ignore the attitude of the Labor Party on this matter. In the next few months a decision may be reached in respect of an agreement to extend over a period of 5 years, but it may be that at the end of 5 years a Labor government will be in office and so the whole pack of cards falls to the ground. The belief that the Liberal Party holds domestically the powers to settle this matter is plainly illusory. It may settle it for 5 years and that is all. Are we to settle it for 5 years and to be so foolish as to think this is a solution to the problem. Of course it is not. The agreement may not last for 5 years. The result of the domestic quarrel in the Liberal Party could be that the Opposition comes to power all the sooner. So it may not last even 5 years. This glorious summer may then turn into a winter of discontent. I think the words federalism' and 'centralism' are not merely a false antithesis but in addition to that are simply an obstacle to clear thinking. Throwing about slogans does not advance rationality in the slightest degree. There is no sacredness in our Constitution. The United States constitution was forged on the anvil of a war of independence and it was hammered into shape by new concepts of democracy. This was in 1776 and democracy was not very common in those days. Set out in that constitution as an ideal was the inalienable right of all men to the pursuit of life, liberty and happiness. 
Well, they were grand words, but it was a new departure in 1776. This idea was summed up a little later in the immortal words of  President  Lincoln: 'Government of the people, by the people, for the people'. Their Constitution was framed at a time when they were fighting a war of independence; framed at a time when they were beginning a new concept in democracy. There are words of fire in it and about it, but so far as we are concerned our independence was won at Yorktown by General Washington and in the House of Commons by Edmund Burke, because although his words were ignored at the time they were not forgotten. That is where our independence was won. Our Constitution is a pedestrian document, a concession by parochial politicians, not hammered out in the circumstances that distinguished the situation at the time of the framing of the American constitution. So there is nothing sacred about it. 
The greatest thing for which we must thank the founding fathers is that they were so shortsighted that it is possible to bend it to our purposes in the 1970s through taxing powers that have been used in a way they did not foresee. 
It is the irony of history that when our material strength is greater than it has ever been - and waxing - when minerals more precious than gold are being uncovered almost every day; when our population has doubled within my lifetime - which, one might say. is a long span but short in the eye of eternity; when new settlers are looking to this nation as their home, their own - they do not look back to England, the Netherlands, Germany or wherever; at this time when these people have played a prodigious part and one might think would have a great spirit of nationalism; when the British and Americans have retreated or are withdrawing from our Near North; when Communism, racialism and the awakening of Asia have added new perils to our situation; when we stand in lonely isolation with Portugal as one of the last two imperial powers - what would you expect? You would expect an awareness of our problems and our perils, a consciousness of the challenges and the opportunities ineluctably ours, an upsurge of vigour and determination, a sense of sturdy independence, the independence of a proud people facing the world and confronting their destiny, confident and serene - this is what you would expect. You would expect, in a word, that an erstwhile string of colonies would be bracing itself as a nation. 
But what do we find? No - and this is the irony of history. No putting off of childish things, no, but a backtracking to our beginning, a return to the past to a kind of neo-colonialism, to government by a hexarchy of hicks. 
But rhetoric is no substitute for reason. Let us get down to the essentials. Let us not be content with rhetoric, though it has its uses. The present situation is by no means all the fault of the States. The Commonwealth has contented itself with doling out funds on no other basis than that the amount is 3% or 5% or some other figure above the amount made available the year before. It has never seriously looked at the real needs irrespective of State and Commonwealth spheres of direct responsibility, nor has it established rational criteria for making specific grants under section 96 of the Constitution - hence things like the Ord scheme. 
There is only one valid principle to govern the allocation of government resources - Federal or State - and that is the satisfaction of the real requirements of the Australian people, from adequate defence to day nurseries. But no machinery exists to ascertain this. There is no State Bureau in Canberra. Premiers conferences have become a farce, none more so than the last, lt may be argued that since the deficiency in the allocation of government resources patently lies in the domain of such State services as transport, hospitals and educational institutions, priorities can be simply adjusted by handing out more Commonwealth revenues to the States in globo. But how much should be handed out to them? This question has not been answered; and can one be sure that in globo grants will in fact be applied by the States in the areas of greatest need? All the States have gerrymandered electorates and always have had whether they have been governed by Liberal or Labor governments. This is the mere truth. Their money tends to be spent - squandered, I would say - far too much and too often in purely political objectives, the winning or the holding of seats. This is how millions have been squandered by the States. 
I do not want to go into details, but the Copeton Dam is an example. The former member for Gwydir told us how they could grow pecan nuts there, and this was fine. Whether they could be sold was another question. There was no economic examination of the matter laid before this Parliament, but the State accepted money for the Copeton Dam although the Sydney beaches are being polluted with sewerage. 
Is there anything on record - if so, I would like it to be shown - that the New South Wales Government said: 'Forget about the Copeton Dam. Forget about pecan nuts or any other nuts. We want the money to cure pollution of our beaches.' But has this been said? No, there is no political advantage in that. As to day nurseries in the inner suburbs of Sydney - the Government of New South Wales has never been interested in such a thing, perhaps - I do not know - because in the inner suburbs people tend to vote for the opposite Party, although the Labor Party was not very keen about it, either. So how do you explain it? No day nurseries, a clamant need, but money for pecan nuts. The polluted beaches? No, no money for them. 
Again, of course, we have the matter of the securities industry. There should quite obviously be a securities and exchange commission - a federal body - operating as successfully as the American one did that was set up by Franklin Roosevelt and that was presided over by somebody who ought to know all about it,  Mr Joseph  P. Kennedy, who made a fortune by knowing all the tricks and then became a poacher turned gamekeeper. That is what we want here. But were the States prepared to refer these powers to the Commonwealth? Of course they were not. We have 5 sets of officials - none of them like Joseph P. Kennedy - and 5 Acts of Parliament. They all have loopholes in them and it will take a year or two to block them up after the horses have fled. The Commonwealth, of course, has been equally at fault with its Ord scheme, its white house by the lake and all the rest. I am afraid I have not time to deal with all the matters that I would like to deal with. I suggest above all - and I have time only for this - that we need a committee of inquiry, as I have advocated in the Press, conducted by people like  Mr Lester  Pearson, if he is available.  Sir John  Crawford, if he is available, and some expert appointed by the States, but an expert. Such a group should go into this whole question of Federal-State relations so that the question is not debated behind closed doors by Premiers who then go off and tell various stories to the Press but so that the whole of the Australian people may know what the facts are, what the issues are, what the taxation powers are and what particular taxation powers are necessary for the control of the economy, and what is a fair principle for the division of taxation. In other words, what is the best way of achieving what we want to do. The people must be taken into the confidence of the Government. It is no longer practicable, no longer possible and no longer rational that a few politicians behind closed doors should say: 'This is the answer and all you have to do is to vote for it.' 
Like most honourable members who have spoken in this debate, I rise to speak because I have some personal acquaintance with the problem of aircraft noise in my own electorate. But that is not my only reason for speaking. I believe that the time has come when some importance should be given to matters of this kind which in the past have not been the subject of consideration by governments, let alone by those who profit from various activities with which noise is associated. In the past these matters have not been important, but they are important today. I rise not only because my electorate is affected and because I personally am affected but also because this is a matter of wide importance in communities, and this is now being realised as never before. 
In the last 2 or 3 years three things have happened which have brought this matter home to many of my constituents and to myself. First of all, the north-south runway at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport was extended. More and more planes are now using that runway and whether they are coming into or going out of Sydney they pass right over the centre of the electorate of Bradfield. In fact, there is a beacon at Pymble, in the middle of my electorate, and at that point the aircraft begin to descend when going into the airport or they rise at that point after leaving the airport. So I have some knowledge of the problems associated with aircraft noise. 
The second thing that has happened has been that international jets are now coming in along this route. They have very noisy engines. At the same time, the domestic airlines have within the last 2 or 3 years converted to jets. The number of planes, international and domestic, coming into Sydney has increased and is still increasing. Heaven knows what the position will be in 10 years time. Indeed, I understand that it will be necessary, on the estimate of increase in traffic, to duplicate the runway and perhaps quadruplicate it. I do not know what will be necessary, but what is now bad will become utterly intolerable. I can only say that a capital blunder has been made. I do not know by whom or when, but a capital blunder has been made in developing the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. New buildings have only just been completed at the airport. Because we have spent millions of dollars on the airport the problem there will continue for some time, but we should now be looking for a site for an alternative airport so that at least in 10 years time we can repair this crass blunder that has been made. 
I would like to have some information from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is at the table, because he is not unfamiliar with the problem. He was recently the Minister for Civil Aviation. I would like him to tell me how many jets, international and domestic, are likely to use, say, the north-south runway in 10 years time. An estimate must have been made and the information must be in the files of the Department of Civil Aviation. Information of this kind in the Department is not secret. It has been collected at the expense of the taxpayers. There is no reason on earth why such information should not be made public. It is not the private property of the Minister for Civil Aviation; it is not the private property of the Government. I should like to know what plans there are for duplicating, quadruplicating, or whatever it may be, the existing runways. What will we have to face in 10 years time? These figures must exist. These things must have been known when this blunder was made. The blunder should not have been made in view of the facts that must have been known. But the worst has not yet come. We will soon have things called jumbo jets, whatever their technical title may be. We have been fed on blurb that they will make no more noise than the existing planes. I would like to have the facts about the noise that these whispering giants, the jumbo jets, make in terms of decibels at a given distance compared with existing planes. 
The problem goes beyond jumbo jets. We also have on the horizon the Concorde aircraft. I would like to read some information about the Concordes. It might upset even the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  when he hears the effects of the Concordes over a wide area. It might even affect the cows in bis electorate, and this would be serious, and he would begin to take notice. If it affects only people, what does it matter? But once it affects the cows in the electorate of Cowper action should be taken. Let us have a look at the Concordes. The British built prototype Concorde is to do 50 high speed test runs shortly down the western coast of Britain, laying a swathe of sonic booms 50 miles wide. Imagine a Concorde on a trip from Brisbane to Sydney passing over the electorate of Cowper and leaving a sonic boom 50 miles wide. During the tests in Britain the sound is expected to be within earshot of 1.7 million people, 700,000 of them in Northern Ireland. Belfast will be the biggest city affected. But it is important to note that a shift in wind could involve Dublin or Glasgow, so we just do not know how far the noise from the boom will spread. The boom will be 50 miles wide but, depending on shifts in the wind, the boom may be heard over a much wider area. 
The report goes on to state that no harm is expected to befall well maintained buildings along an 800-mile strip. I hope all the buildings will be well1 maintained. The weather and other factors will prevent precise forecasts, so we really do not know where the effects of the boom will end. Although the tests are only designed to evaluate the Concorde, they will yield a valuable by-product on the acceptability of the sonic bang. Sweden has already announced that it intends to ban supersonic flights over ils territory. Four more 
European countries - Norway, West Germany, Holland and Switzerland - indicated in February that they meant to do the same. The situation is difficult already. Within 10 years, even with existing aircraft, it will be intolerable. In addition we will have the jumbo jets and later, perhaps, the Concordes. So I suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this matter should be taken in hand now. I propose to vote for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  as this is the only means available to me of saying to the Government that the selection of a new site is now a matter of urgency. I have no other effective means of saying this. 
The Government's motion before the House is not wide enough to cover this urgent matter. Why is it urgent if we cannot expect a new airport for 10 years, if that is the earliest time at which we can write off the millions of dollars we have just wasted on the development of Kingsford-Smith Airport? Why then should we be concerned now? The reason is that unless the Government does select a site now it will find that development's will take place which will make it impossible then to use that site. Therefore it is essential to do this now. The land should be acquired and zoning should look after the kind of development that occurs in the vicinity. 
There are other aspects of the noise menace of aircraft. There is the question of night flying. I understand that  Sir Reginald  Ansett, who is a very courageous man and a very forthright man, is anxious to operate his cargo flights by night; not the jets - there is a thought - but just the turboprop aircraft. Well, if the Government lifts the curfew, first we will have turbo-prop aircraft operating at night and they will be followed by the jets. Is this to be allowed to happen? Is this forthright, determined man to have his way? Surely the rights of little people have to be protected. After all, if we go back to our remote ancestors probably all of them came down from the trees. Probably all our ancestors lived in the jungle. Our ancestors were not accustomed to doing other than sleeping when they were tired, then waking and hunting when they were hungry. That is how the human being is constituted. When we lack sleep we become exceedingly irritable - and no wonder. Our health becomes impaired. Our mental attitudes are affected. This is commonplace. We do not need a medical man to tell us this. All of us know it. We are not constituted to be woken up and kept awake at all hours of the night. Therefore we have to concern ourselves with the question of night flying. 
Again, what are we doing through the international organisation - the International Civil Aviation Organisation - to pressure manufacturers and operators to produce and purchase aircraft that do not cause this discomfort and ill health to millions of people throughout the world? It may suit aircraft manufacturers to produce larger planes; it may suit operators to fly them. But who represents the little people? Nobody, except their governments. If their governments fail them then they have no protection at all. What did the recent Minister for Civil Aviation, the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  do at meetings of ICAO to join with other small countries and say: 'Why should we put up with your jumbo jets; why should the taxpayers have to pay for lengthened runways, extensive terminals and all the rest? For what?' Is this happening in order that there should be cheaper fares for our travellers? Not at all. It is happening to bring about greater comfort? Not in the least. It will take passengers longer to get their baggage out of these new airports than it takes now. There is no advantage to be gained for the people of Australia. Such advantage as there is will go to the aircraft manufacturers and the aircraft operators. 
What has this Government done? What has the Minister for Civil Aviation done in the world council of civil aviation affairs, ICAO? What has he done to protect the interests of this country and other small countries against the needs, the requirements, the insistence of manufacturers of aircraft and aircraft operators? 
So it is that there is now a need to begin to select new sites. I say this especially so far as Kingsford-Smith Airport is concerned because I happen to know it best. However, I have no doubt-.that the same need exists in other capital cities. This is something that does matter. We are sick and tired of governments ignoring the needs of small people. We are sick and tired of big business riding roughshod over us. There at the table sits the Minister for National Development who formerly had the responsibility for these matters. I do not know who decided to enlarge KingsfordSmith Airport. I do not know whether the responsibility was his or somebody elses I am not interested to who is to blame. The Government itself must, as far as it can, rectify this blunder and do so as soon as it can. This may take 10 years but let us start now. If the Government sets out to find an alternative site and one is found soon, then I should be happy. But I want to be quite certain that this is done. 
It may well be that the select committee investigating airport noise is not the best kind of organisation to go into these technical matters but it is the only body in respect of which I now have a vote which can undertake something that ought to be done. The Government has given no indication that it is prepared to do it or that the Department is prepared to do it. None whatsoever. If the Government thinks only of the expensive apparatus that is to be officially opened in the course of a few weeks then there is no likelihood that it ever will admit its mistake. Therefore I am going to vote for the amendment moved by the Opposition as an indication that the sooner we set about finding an alternative site the better so that development cannot go on in that area which ultimately will make its use impossible. 
It is said that if the proposed committee goes about looking at sites the next thing that will happen will be that the price of land will go up wherever the committee's members set foot, in the belief that that spot is where the new airport will be. All I can say is that if there is an indication that the price paid for resuming land will not exceed the value of that land before the Committee trod upon it, then the Government can look after the situation. We should get on with this business now. It is no use talking gobbledegook and saying that we do not know whether we are going to need another airport or whether other developments will occur. We know now that we need another site for an airport; we know now that it should be developed as soon as we can get rid of the present white elephant, although we cannot do so tomorrow. There are steps, essential steps, to be taken now in order to move in that direction. Therefore I propose to support the amendment. 
Did the Minister for External Affairs hear the statement made by  Mr Ian  Smith, leader of the de facto Government of Southern Rhodesia, on the Four Corners' television programme last weekend, or has he seen a transcript of the statement? If so, will the Minister say whether he drew the inescapable inference that in the opinion of  Mr Smith  the Australian Government sympathises with his regime and its policies? Is this the truth of the matter? 
First of all I wish to say a few words about things that have been said in the course of this debate. Then I propose to follow a new track that has not yet been pursued. Finally I will come back to the well trodden ways. I, like the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  entirely agree with what was said by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  in regard to New Guinea. I need not repeat that. 
The honourable member for Fremantle has argued that British intervention in Asia is unlikely, at least on any substantial scale. I would agree with him entirely. I agree with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  rather than with the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr . McMahon)  on this matter. When Great Britain lost India she lost her empire and the power that she was able to deploy in this part of the world. At the same time, there might conceivably be some small British force which might be deployed in a very local situation in an area such as Malaysia. But that is a small hope. The last matter that was raised by the honourable member for Fremantle - indeed it has been raised by the Opposition generally - relates to isolationism being, as he says, a policy that at least ought to be examined and possibly a right policy for Australia. I have not time to deal with that now. I hope, when I have dealt with a rather novel aspect, to come back to that if I have time. 
Now I want to say something about the situation of Australia in her foreign relations, in particular because I do not think that either the Government or the Opposition has worked out any satisfactory policy. We are still trying to find our way in a totally new situation that Australia has never confronted before. In this connection I come to the Department of External Affairs. 1 am not one of those who believe that public servants should devise our policy for us; but they certainly should be able to help. So I want to say something about the organisation of that Department. There is a prima facie case for a thoroughgoing inquiry into it. 
Between 1911 and 1914 there was a royal commission into the British Foreign Office. In 1943 a White Paper was presented. Various important changes were made from that time until 1962-63, when the Plowden report was tabled. Then in 1968-69 the Duncan report was made public. If over that period it was necessary for the British to look into the organisation of their Foreign Office, surely the time has come for us to have a look at our Department of External Affairs. When we consider that in 1939 we had one diplomatic post abroad - that is to say, the post of High Commissioner in London - and now,as the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  pointed out, we have many posts all over the world, and when we consider that our Department has grown up like Topsy, then surely we cannot be in any different position from the United Kingdom and it is time we had a look at the organisation of our Department. That is a prima facie case. 
Now I come to some detail in support of the case for a thoroughgoing inquiry of the type made by the Plowden Committee. Australia at the United Nations, for example, is less fortunate than the mythical hero Achilles because it has 2 vulnerable heels. The first is its policy in regard to southern Africa. These are matters that were raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in the course of his speech in this debate. But in fact they were raised publicly by me before that, and the fact that he has raised them also makes no difference to my attitude on them. By our votes in the United Nations, by our trade with Rhodesia and by the establishment of an embassy in Lis bon recently, for example, we have appeared to align ourselves with the minority white regimes in southern Africa. By 'southern Africa' I mean South Africa, Rhodesia and Portugal with its 2 territories of Angola and Mozambique. 
We live in South East Asia on the rim of a continent inhabited by people who do not have white skins, and we have to live with them. Therefore, it is an extraordinarily stupid policy to associate ourselves with regimes of that kind. Let me quote Security Council resolution 253 of 1968 insofar as it is applicable in regard to our trade with Rhodesia. It states: 
The Security Council, 
Recalling and reaffirming- 
Certain resolutions that I need not detail: 
Decides that, in furtherance of the objective of ending the rebellion- 
That is in Rhodesia: 
,. all States Members of the United Nations shall prevent- 
Certain things including: 
The sale or supply by their nationals or from their territories of any commodities or products  but not including supplies intended strictly for medical purposes, educational equipment and material for use in schools and other educational institutions, publications, news material and, in special humanitarian circumstances, foodstuffs 
Anybody who says that our sales of wheat to Rhodesia come into that category simply is incapable of understanding the plain meaning of words. We are in breach of the Security Council resolution. Yet, as I have said, we live in this part of the world and we do these things. 
As far as an embassy in Lisbon is concerned, why do we need it? This raises the question of the criteria that we apply when we open an embassy in any part of the world. When our trained and experienced diplomats are strained to the limit as it is, why do we open an embassy in Lisbon? I suppose the reason is that we are scavenging around the world for factory fodder; we are looking everywhere for immigrants. I suppose we think that opening an embassy may help. But apparently we pay no regard to the effect that that action may have on our relations with southern Africa and therefore our neighbours in Asia. 
Our second Achilles' heel is New Guinea. I need not enlarge upon this since much has been said about it already in the course of this debate. It is true that in New Guinea our interests, the interests of the local inhabitants themselves and the interest of the A fro- Asian group in the United Nations are one. The net result is that in the United Nations, because we have these two Achilles heels, we hide in corners for fear that if we should come out and say something we may be attacked on account of our relationship with southern Africa and our problem in New Guinea. 
We are one of the most distant parts of the world and a country through which nobody passes to go anywhere else. We are one of the most geographically isolated countries in the world. We play no part on the stage of the United Nations, although it is a world stage and what happens there and what we do and what we do not do is reported back to all the capitals of the world. This is the fault of Government policy, not of our representatives. A country like Malta or Trinidad and Tobago plays a greater part in the United Nations than we do. That is one example to show why some examination ought to be made of the formation of our foreign policy, because we do one thing in relation to southern Africa or New Guinea, but we are faced with a different situation when we get to the United Nations. 
Where is the co-ordination of policy? Where does the policy of the Department of External Affairs co-ordinate with the policy of the Department of External Territories. In fact, our policy is not being coordinated but is galloping off in all directions. I am putting up a case to indicate that there is need for an examination of the functioning of the Department of External Affairs. My second example is that the High Commissioner in London still reports to the Prime Minister or to the Prime Minister's Department. He does not report to the Department of External Affairs. It was many years ago that Canada made its representation in London similar to the representation in the other parts of the world. The British themselves have consolidated the Foreign Office and the Dominions Office. Nobody's nose will be put out of joint. This is a plain anomaly. It is time that the High Commissioner in London reported to the Department of External Affairs. I am merely giving examples of plain anomalies and things that need looking into in this field. - 
There is a lack of long-term research - a think tank or whatever you like to call it - in the Department of External Affairs. This situation has recently been brought to light. For a long time there was no research section at ali. Then a relatively junior was appointed, but he appears to have been forgotten and so nothing has been done about long-term policies. The Department is distracted with its day to day activities and business and so never gets down to any long-term considerations. Often the desk officers have never been into the areas of their responsibility and know nothing about them. I have met a senior member of the Department - a First Secretary - who has never been in a continent for which he was responsible in the Department. 
So far as Communist China is concerned, most of us know that the United States has a very large organisation in Hong Kong, which is an obvious listening post to read the Chinese newspapers and to hear what it can from those who come out of China. I have reason to know that our information about what happens in China is extremely limited. What is the relationship of the Department of External Affairs with the Department of Trade and Industry? 1 have already instanced the sale of wheat in Rhodesia. Did the Department of Defence consult with other departments before it established the Pacific Islands Regiment, before it put in the barracks where it put them or before it decided what kind of educational training the PIR would have? Did it consult on the political consequences? Obviously this is most important in relation to what we do in New Guinea. I have already mentioned that the Department of Immigration has been responsible for the establishment of embassies in certain countries to suit its needs notwithstanding that there may be no other adequate reasons for having posts in those countries. There is also the question of bringing in specialists from outside the Department of External Affairs, whether they be from universities or elsewhere. In an age of technology when, in our external relations, particularly through the United Nations and its agencies, we have to deal with matters such as nuclear weapons, the development of the sea bed and so forth, there is obviously a place for technologists with the highest qualifications. Where and on what terms should they be recruited? I have mentioned the academics who might be used. All these things need looking into. 
Besides this there is the question of Asian languages, which are difficult languages. Are adequate incentives given to those members of the Department who take the trouble to learn them. If a man has taken the trouble to learn a difficult Asian language, is he to be removed from that area after he has served there for a year or 2 and sent to Europe or somewhere else? It is a mattter of how officers who have specialist knowledge, whether in languages or otherwise, are posted. 
Again there is the question of aid. One case that came under my notice was when we installed broadcastting equipment - loud speakers - to deal with insurgency in Thailand. The fact that was overlooked by the gentleman from the Australian Broadcasting Commission who. inspected the installation on behalf of the Department was that there was no electricity available there. Finally there is the question, of the study of Asian affairs in our universities. Some may of their own motion start, say, a department of Indonesian studies; but there is no coordination in all this. I was very impressed many years ago when I went to England. This was at a time when England was the centre of the empire, when people went out and came back from all the corners of the world with an enormous fund of knowledge and information. The languages that could be studied at an English university and the cultural studies on Asia and elsewhere were simply by-products of Britain's having an empire. We are on the fringe of Asia and have to know as much about our neighbours as Britain ever did about her empire, yet there has been no co-ordinated attempt by the Department of Education and Science to see that these things are studied in a systematic way. We should be a centre for the study of the cultures and languages of Asia. These are matters to which I think it is important to draw attention. 
May I make a few remarks in conclusion? I see that my time is running out and that I will not have a chance to deal with other matters or to move along the well-trodden paths. But I would like to quote some of the conclusions of the Plowden Committee, to which I drew attention earlier, not be cause these are necessarily more important than others but because they indicate the scope of an inquiry of this kind. These are some of the conclusions: 
Our need for efficient overseas representational services is likely to increase rather than decrease. Their tasks will grow wider in scope and become more complex and exacting. 
What about the tasks for our diplomats with the expansion of our interests and our needs? Other conclusions were: 
A greater degree of specialisation in languages, areas and functions is required  withtin  the . . . Service. 
Although there is a need for functional departments in the Foreign Offices, as much work as possible should be assigned to geographical departments. 
Policy planning' work should be developed and geared in with policy-making in the overseas Departments and within Whitehall as a whole. There should be close contact with outside experts. 
Information work in the Diplomatic Service must be regarded as essentially an activity designed to further policies and should be undertaken by career members of that Service. 
The Diplomatic Service should have a unified legal section with a structure of its own and common recruitment. 
Should we have a special legal section, or should we rely on the Attorney-General's Department? Another conclusion was: 
Recruiting standards should be maintained. There should continue to be a system of over-age entry. 
Is there a necessity for this here? The conclusions go on: 
There is  greater  scope for borrowing university and other talent for periods of temporary service. 
With certain exceptions, all civilian officers now attached to overseas Missions should in future serve on secondment. 
Speaking of conditions of service for members in it, the report states: 
A second annual concessionary journey should be granted for children at school to join their parents overseas during school holidays. 
This is very necessary for us. Another conclusion was: 
Compensation for service at specially difficult posts should take the form of annual home leave. 
A further conclusion was: 
An increase in expenditure on amenities is called for, particularly at difficult posts. 
I quote these things merely to indicate that surely it is time we had a look at them here. We have gone on from 1939 to this day without any thoroughgoing inquiry into these matters. I would not like it to be thought that anything I have said is critical of the officers of the Department of External Affairs. Indeed, I think that all of us who have been abroad have the very highest opinion of these intelligent, dedicated and educated men. They are men who present the very best image that Australia can possibly have. Nothing that I have said reflects on them in the slightest degree. Indeed, I would greatly regret seeing any lowering of standards in the Department. On the contrary, service in the Department should be a career that will attract the very best people that we have in this country, and this depends so much on the conditions of service and the work which they have to do. 
I am sorry that 1 have not had time to deal with other matters, but this was something that I felt ought to be said. Our opportunities to speak on these matters in this place are very limited indeed, as some honourable members have remarked in the course of the last week or so. Our opportunities are limited, so i have taken the opportunity of saying these things that I believe ought to be said. We are still in search of a policy. Neither the Government nor the Opposition has found one. 1 am not suggesting that the Department of External Affairs alone should find the policy, but it can help, lt is high time that there was an inquiry like the Plowden inquiry, unless we do not produce here the type of people who can conduct such an inquiry - intelligent people with sufficient breadth of mind. If we have not got them, it is high time that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  tried to find out why we lack this type of person. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that a meeting of certain representative builders of all States met in Canberra at the end of last week, that they had collated figures indicating a serious downturn in building commencements over recent months, and that they communicated these matters to the permanent head of the Department of Housing who promised to convey them to his Minister and to the honourable gentleman? I now ask the honourable gentleman whether he has received these representations, whether he agrees with the builders' thesis and whether, if so, he has any corrective measures in mind. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What are the estimates of enrolments for each of the 125 House of Representatives electoral divisions as at October 1972, based upon current rates of growth. 
My question relating to frequency modulation broadcasting is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that broadcasting by means of frequency modulation results in high fidelity reception free of static and atmospheric interference? In the ultra high frequency band could a large number of channels be made available for this form of broadcasting, providing the public throughout Australia with a much greater choice of programmes than is presently available? Has this form of broadcasting been developed in every other advanced country in the world, and many that are not, including Europe and South America and large parts of Asia and Africa? I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he would be prepared to appoint a select committee of this House, and ad hoc committee of independent persons or the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to conduct a public inquiry into the feasibility and desirability of introducing a system of frequency modulation broadcasting into Australia and to report to him on the matter and through him to Parliament and the public? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. It relates to aid to Asian countries. I refer to a reported statement made by the right honourable gentleman in Japan indicating a partnership between that country and Australia in the giving of aid to countries in the Asian region. Is it also true that substantial changes have already been made in our aid policy with a bias towards our trade advantages rather than our foreign policy objectives? Does the right honourable gentleman think that a statement ought soon to be made to clarify the Government's policy on these matters? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who has just sat down, thought fit to suggest that nobody knew how I proposed to vote on this censure motion. I have never given any cause whatsoever for doubt as to how 1 propose to vote on this or any other motion. I want to add that I could imagine nothing more disastrous than to assist the honourable gentleman and his friends into office. 
 I wish to make a persona] explanation. 
Yes, there was plenty of fog involved. No small print, but plenty of fog and plenty of generalities. The great debate went on. The Bill was explained at 12.25 p.m..  A  question was asked by an honourable member from this side of the House. That took 2 minutes. Then, the honourable member for Lilley had the opportunity to say something for 10 minutes, speaking after 1 o'clock when most members were feeling rather hungry. 
Now, that was the full debate in the Government Party room. Now everyone knows how we introduce legislation into this House. A special Party meeting was held after the Bill had been introduced. We had been promised we would see the small print. We saw no print, large or small. But there was then a special Party meeting - yes, indeed - on Wednesday, 13th May, after the whole thing was a fait accompli and the Bill had been introduced into the House. Debate ensued on Thursday, 14th May. That is the history of a great piece of legislation. It is perhaps the most important piece of legislation to be introduced this session. That is how it came lo the Party and to the Parliament. 
Then we had the second reading speech. May I say a word about the way these things are done in slightly more mature communities. I refer to the Parliament of Westminster upon which we falsely claim that wc base ourselves. There, it is usual of course to introduce important changes in policy first of all by way of a report by some kind of an expert committee that sorts out the facts and the principles involved, analyses the situation and perhaps reaches some conclusions which the Government may or may not adopt, giving its reasons in a White Paper which is laid on the table and published long before any debate takes place in the House. Then, at last there is debate in the House and that debate is informed. I have mentioned already how informed this side of the House was on this Bill. The Opposition, of course, had no information at ali until it received the second reading speech. 1 wish to say a word about the second reading speech before I finish. 
I have taken out some facts by way of illustration of the work carried out by committees of the British Parliament in the last 2 years or 3 years. The Fulton Committee reported on the reorganisation - basically and fundamentally - of the English Civil Service. The Pilkington Committee reported on broadcasting and television, their structure and what ought to be done about them and how far the Government ought to go with them. The Plowden Committee and the Duncan Committee reported on the reorganisation of the British Foreign Office. The Radcliffe-Maud Committee reported towards last year on the radical restructuring of local government in England. Local government there is pretty much what the State government is here. These are just some examples of the activities of British committees over the last 2 or 3 years. This is not what happens in the Australian Parliament before a Bill is introduced. 
We had the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Trade and Industry. I want to speak about the second reading speech because it is our sole source of information, apart from what we may piece together if we are as assiduous as ACMA was. The prime object of this Bill is alleged to be to ensure adequate Australian participation in the exploitation of Australia's natural resources. Yet there was no analysis of foreign investment - none whatever. A few figures were given indicating that this is the way the wind is blowing, perhaps, if we accept those figures. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who led for the Opposition, produced some figures of his own, or rather some figures that had authenticity, but he had to quote them. They were not given by the Minister. The honourable member for 
Lilley quoted other figures. They are in Hansard. The honourable member for Balaclava quoted other figures. But why should these honourable members be giving figures? Surely it is the duty of the Minister and the Government introducing an important piece of legislation into the House, having the possession of these matters as none of us have them, having in the files of their departments these figures, to produce this information. Surely that is the duty of any government and its Ministers in anything but a hick republic. But did they? Not at all! AH we had was the second reading speech by the right honourable gentleman in which he gave a few spot figures showing the way the wind was blowing. 
No review was given of prospect of Australian participation. We have heard about these great enterprises that are to be capable of competing on a world scale throughout the world. We have 2 such enterprises, perhaps, in this country - Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. I think that they perhaps are the only ones. What are these other great enterprises that are to be built up to compete on a world scale? What are the prospects of Australian participation? I suggest that mainly the Australian equity participation will place Australia in the position of a very junior partner. Was there any appraisal of what were the prospects of Australian capital in these vast enterprises that are to operate throughout the world? At least we should have had some appraisal of our prospects. But we had nothing. We have no analysis of methods used by other countries in meeting this problem of overseas investment. We have not asked them: 'What do you do about it?' No. We have just a flat statement that the AIDC is the answer. Yours is not to reason why. We have no analysis of what anybody else does. This is it. Ipse dixit! The Minister said it himself. That is it! No, the second reading speech which gives us this full knowledge and information which elsewhere might be given in a White Paper. 
No information is given regarding the success or failure of the guidelines policy laid down by the Prime Minister some little time ago. This policy was supposed to induce foreign investors in this country to allow Australia to participate in equity capital. Has it succeded? Has it failed? To what extent has it succeeded or failed? Do we hear anything from the right honourable gentleman? Not a word! Then there was said to be a gap - you know, we do not have any institution that is capable of providing Australian capital on the scale required for the purposes involved. There is a gap in our financial institutions? We have no institution capable of doing this sort of thing. 
Where is the gap? Has it ever been identified? Not a word about it. The gap in the Australian investment scene, as the right honourable gentleman put it, is not identified. Does this mean that there is a gap and that it is a gap that relates to, say, the riskier business - those things that cannot get finance in the ordinary way or through the Australian Resources Development Bank? The Minister does not say whether it is risky business or what it is. When the Australian Resources Development Bank was established we were told all about the investment gap. But there is nothing here about what the gap is that has to be filled. All we are told is that there is a gap and that it must be filled - by this means. That is all. The right honourable gentleman said: 
It will assist where the development would not otherwise take place. 
What is that? The risky business? Or what is it? I do not know. He does not tell us. 
No reasoned case is presented as to how the Australian Industry Development Corporation can get fixed term capital overseas that the Australian Resources Development Bank cannot get. There is what the honourable member for Lilley referred to, that is, a confluence of objectives. We are all seeking to do the same thing - and both the AIDC and the ARDB are trying to do precisely this. That is, to get fixed term capital overseas on a large scale for investment in Australia. There is a confluence of objectives. Why is it that the Australian Resources Development Bank cannot successfully do the job that is required? Why is the Australian Industry Development Corporation the only institution that can do it? Where is this gap? Both institutions, of course, are backed by the Government. Do not let us have any nonsense about this. The AIDC, of course, is backed by the Government. 
An honourable member earlier in the debate this afternoon made this point and there is no need for me to elaborate on it any further. Of course, if the institution was not able to pay its debts or if it failed the Australian Government would have to back it up, otherwise Australia's credit standing would be finished. Consequently both these institutions have backing from the Government. What did the right honourable gentleman mean when he said: 
It must seek to enable Australian industry to conserve our foreign exchange by competing with imports without recourse to high tariff barriers. 
What does this mean? It is rather enigmatic. Does it mean that this Corporation will assist Australian industries so that they can be better organised to meet overseas competition? This has nothing to do with exports. What is intended here? Is this intended to be a kind of rationalisation of Australian industry? Unless that is what the words mean I cannot understand them. It is said that money is to be made available by this Corporation to Australian industries to enable them to compete better with foreign imports. What else does it mean? Again the right honourable gentleman said that this Corporation will 'promote trade and commerce between the States'. What does he mean by 'between the States'? Does this mean perhaps that there is some raw material in one State and it is proposed to process it in another State in order to develop some fancy plan of decentralisation in that other State? Will it be justified on that ground? I do not know. 
We have not been told what is meant by the words 'promote trade and commerce between the States'. What is the meaning of this odd phrase? It is like the earl'ier phrase that I mentioned. The right honourable gentleman also said that the Corporation may further the development of Australian resources necessary for the defence of the Commonwealth. Let all patriots spring to attention. Does this mean, for example, that we should promote cotton growing on the Ord so that it can be used to make canvas for tents for soldiers? What does it mean? Can this be a cloak for heaven knows what kind of operation? Maybe that is a foolish example, but I am just wondering what wilt be brought in under the cloak of a defence industry. There is scarcely a reference to the. ARDB. There has been no attempt to distinguish it or to show why it cannot do the job. No details have been given of cases where applicants to that bank have failed to get loans or where it has not been able to command sufficient resources. I think from memory it has loaned something like $260m, which is a fairly tidy sum. 
We have not had a single word from the Treasury about this. It is said that this Corporation is not a bank. 1 should have thought that this was a matter in which the Treasury would have some interest. Are we not entitled to be told what the Treasury thinks about it? We have not had a word from that quarter. Then there is the vagueness of the Bill. There have been nothing but exhortations. We have seen nothing that is really laid down in black and white and nothing that is really enforceable. All we have had are vague exhortations. I have already mentioned that this Corporation is to get its funds principally from abroad, whatever 'principally' may mean, lt must aci in accordance with sound business principles. What does this mean? A sound business, presumably, aims at a profit. But there is no suggestion in the Bil1] that the Corporation is to aim at making a profit. Is this a sound business principle? There is no mention of the amount of the profit. 
What about the other competing instrumentalities, such as the airlines and so forth, which have to make profits that arc laid down as an objective. The right honourable gentleman also said that the Corporation is to be subject to taxation. Taxation on what? If it does not make profits there will be no taxation. What about the income that it derives from its $)00m capital? It does not have to pay any dividends. It does not have to pay anything to the Government. So presumably, it will get interest on the investment of its capital. What does it do with this? Perhaps it starts a defence industry. Who knows? Perhaps it will promote trade between the States. Who knows? The Minister for Trade and Industry also said that it must divest itself of equities. How much equity and when? Once a year it is to have a kind of stock take, and if it thinks fit it has then to divest itself of equities. 
The Corporation is subject to the Reserve Bank regarding domestic borrowings in any one year. There is nothing said about the interest rates that are laid down by the Reserve Bank for other institutions. Supposing that the Corporation happened to borrow overseas at a particular time an amount of $100m or $200m and that this suddenly arrived in Australia and the expenditure of that money made demands upon resources in this country at a time when those resources were already overstrained, so that an inflationary situation developed. This is the grandest of all marginal institutions. We have heard a lot about marginal banking institutions, but what about this colossus which is not under the surveillance of the Reserve Bank? The Minister also said that there are safeguards. I mentioned that the bank shall nol provide assistance except at the request of an applicant. I have already made reference to this and I need not say more. 
Then there is the matter of the appointment of directors. The remuneration is to be fixed by the Governor-General; in other words, by the Government. This is very odd. Maybe you can or you cannot get somebody at a given figure. Is the GovernorGeneral to fix a different remuneration for the succeeding director, having already fixed it for the first one? Judges receive fixed remuneration to protect them from bias. But in relation to the directors of this Corporation the remuneration is to be fixed by the Governor-General. The amount paid to a director who is appointed at this stage may vary from the amount paid to a director appointed in 3 years time. There is to be a tenure of something between 3 years and 6 years. Who says that the Government will have no influence on the directors? Of course they will all bc splendid fellows but as time passes less splendid fellows may be appointed. Who knows? 
We hear that this Corporation is to be free from Government interference. This is set out splendidly in the plainest terms. There is a body called the Tariff Board. Attempts have been made by the right honourable gentleman who introduced this Bill to intimidate it again and again. Wc all know that this is a fact. The Tariff Board, of course, is free from Government interference - if you cannot intimidate it. The Reserve Bank board is free from Government interference too. Do not we remember a little while ago when the Prime Minister and the right honourable gentleman went to the Bank Board and told it that it must reduce the rate of interest on overdrafts for rural producers? So what is the value of a guarantee that a Board shall be free from Government interference? These are 2 cases within recent memory. As- may have been inferred, I am against the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

I rise simply to indicate my support for the 2 amendments that have been moved by my friend, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  which are now before the Chair. I have observed the same amity and access between the Government and the Opposition on this occasion as existed a little earlier. The Government is not prepared to accept the amendments and is firmly supported by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  A little earlier, in the course of this debate, some of us were able to observe that amity by seeing both sides sitting cheek by jowl in the one enterprise. We do not want to delay the House, especially at this hour, by forcing another division. That is why it is necessary for me now to express my support for what the honourable member for Lilley has sought to do.I must say this because I cannot indicate it by my action in a division. 
We have 2 amendments before us. The first deals with the question of whether it should be made explicit in the legislation that the Corporation should be a lender of last resort. There is no difficulty in drafting a provision of this kind. Indeed such a provision is contained in section 72 of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959-1961 where it is provided that the functions of the Development Bank are to provide finance for persons in cases where finance is desirable and the finance would not otherwise be available. There is no difficulty therefore in drafting such an amendment. Indeed, we have been told by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  at some length and by his distinguished predecessor in this debate that there is no overlap in the institutions, that is to say, the Australian Resources Development Bank and the Corporation, at all. The Minister said earlier in the discussion of this clause, I think, that he would not accept that the corporation would be other than a lender of last resort. We would simply like to make this explicit. HereI may say with reference to the honourable member for Lalor who is leading for the Opposition that he need not import any fanciful reasons why we support these amendments. We are not, as he says, in the same firmament - I think that was his phrase - as those distinguished gentlemen who control our great financial institutions and therefore it could hardly, he said himself, be on the grounds of any personal friendship with them that we would seek to move amendments of this kind. He need not look for any abtruse reasons. What we fear of course, is that this institution, shall we say improved by the Opposition in due course by amendment, could become en engine whereby a government could control a large segment of industry in this country. We believe that when a government controls industry it uses industry for its own political purposes and we fear the political purposes of Socialism. The honourable member need not enter into any high flown notions as to why we support these amendments - whether through personal friendship or because we are the spokesmen of vested interests. God knows how long we could talk if we talked about vested interests. But we will not. We will not delay because the hour is late. 
The other amendment is one which 1 think has been fully supported by my friend the honourable member for Lilley. The Bill itself in clause 8 (3.) (c) states that the Corporation:  shall endeavour, so far as practicable, to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or manage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance. 
Now, this is a purpose of the very Bill, lt is stated in the plainest terms and all the honourable member for Lilley seeks to do is to make it explicit that control would amount to the possession of 15% of the equity in such a company, lt merely makes explicit what is stated in plain terms in the Bill itself. He has supported the figure of 15%, 1 think, beyond any doubt or question. He has pointed out that this is the very figure that has been chosen in the case of radio stations and in other Government legislation. Indeed, the honourable member leading for the Opposition has said that people have succeeded with 10% less than 15%  -  in gaining control of a company. Once again we fear control of companies exercised by a corporation which itself may well be amenable to government - not necessarily this Government but any government in the future, a government drawn from the other side of the House, for example. We believe that (his is bad and wrong and contrary to principles that we support. So I support the 2 amendments that have been moved by the honourable member for Lilley that are now before the House. I only regret that the Government is not able to accept the amendments and I understand that the Opposition is in full agreement with the Government. 
1 move: 
Omit sub-clause (6.), insert the following subclause:  (fi.)  Without  prejudice lo the duty of the Cor-,  poration  lo comply with the provisions of this ec:tion. a contract entered into, or other thing done, by the Corporation is not invalidated by reason of a provision of this section not having been complied with by the Corporation.' 
This provision sets out the policy that the Corporation shall pursue. The draftsman, J think, has in mind simply that persons entering into contracts or other such transactions with the Corporation shall not find that these are invalidated because the Corporation has exceeded or departed from the policy laid down in the provision. However, the way it has been drafted would suggest, to a layman at least, that if the Corporation does not follow the policy laid down for it this does not matter at all. This of course is not the intention. Indeed, later on under clause 37 it is stated that: 
Where- the Minister is satisfied that, during the year to which the report rehires, the Corporation has failed to comply with its obligations under section 8 of this Act- 
That is, the policies laid down in section 8 -  the Minister may, by notice in writing to the Executive Chairman, request the Executive Chairman to convene a meeting of the Board. 
Then there is to be a confrontation as to whether the policy of the Corporation has been complied with or not. Quite plainly, the draftsman in clause 8 sub-clause (6.) does not intend to imply that these matters shall not be called in question as in claus 37. 1 do not think that there is any great difficulty about this matter. i think it is right that even a layman should understand what is meant. If this does no violence to the legal requirements or the requirements of the draftsman, then I would suggest it is right that even a layman should understand what is really intended. The words -- other thing' here are to be read ejusdem generis, that is to say, as matters of the same kind as contracts. 
I was under the impression that it was promised in connection with the election. 
It was the Leader of the Country Party. That is a distinction without a very great: difference, lt was promised by the Leader of the Country Party. Let us pass over that slight difference. It was promised at the time of the election by the Leader of the Country Party, who certainly spoke for the Government on that occasion as on many other occasions. I ask: What is the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the Bill that has been promised by the Leader of the Country Party for the Government, and what is the attitude of the Australian Country Party? They are equivocal and rather interesting. The amendment which I have in my hand states: 
That all the words after That* be omitted wilh a view to  inserting  the following words in place thereof: the technical evaluation and any cost benefit analyses carried out by the Commonwealth for the project near Bundaberg be made available to this House.' 
The motion before the House is that this Bill be read a second time. So the Opposition is saying that the Bill should not be read a second time; all it wants to do is to look at the cost benefit analyses. Is the Opposition for the Bill or is it not? In any case, what is the real meaning of the amendment? I suggest that this is a piece of political jiggery-pokery and nothing else. 
The honourable member who has just interjected is nothing if not a realist. I am glad to have his support for the statement I have just made. The Labor altitude, as I was saying, is equivocal, and it is based on sheer politics. What it is trying to say is this: 'If anybody wants a dam anywhere, we are their friends. We will have a look at the Bundaberg scheme. We may be for it; we may be against it. But, friends everywhere throughout Australia who want a dam, we may turn down the Bundaberg one and select yours instead.' I have no intention of voting for an amendment that is completely phony, and I believe I have exposed that precisely. 
We have had great advocacy by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who comes from the coast of Queensland in the vicinity of Bundaberg. Of course he had support from the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  and from the honourable member for Riverina. I do not know what (he honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who interjected, thinks about this. He should be a member of the suburban lobby. What he thinks of his friends in (he country lobby - there is more than one lobby in this place - I do nol know. I hope he will tell us. The honourable member for Riverina, in a speech that was replete wilh every kind of generalisation and every kind of demagogic appeal, was completely lacking in substance. He referred to urban water supplies. What a terrible thing it would be if a suburban member woke up and found there was no water coming from the tap. Let me draw the distinction I have already drawn, because repetition is necessary to drive an idea into the minds of honourable members opposite. The suburban water supply I get in Sydney I pay for. lt is an economic scheme. There is no gift to me from the taxpayer in the water 1 get. But as I have already pointed out - and I repeat - the water supply for irrigation purposes is not paid for by the people using it. The honourable member for Riverina can quibble that they pay some small fee for the reticulation of it but the headworks, the major expenditure, the enormously high proportion of the cost of these schemes, is provided free of charge by the taxpayers for the people in the irrigation areas. Urban supplies are paid- for in full by the consumers. I draw that fairly simple distinction. I hope I have driven it into some thick heads here. 
The honourable member for Riverina poured scorn on  Dr Davidson.  He is the honourable member representing the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. We may test his bona fides by this circumstance. He represents the people of that area. Of course he is an advocate for them, but nobody believes that he is impartial or objective.  Dr Davidson,  on the other hand, is a lecturer at the University of Sydney and has no reason to support the people of the Murhumbidgee Irrigation Area or any other irrigation area. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! There is no valid point of order. 
As I said earlier, it is difficult to drive a few simple ideas into thick heads, and I repeat it. Let us pass on and have a brief look at the Bundaberg scheme. 1 am mainly concerned with the general principles involved in this matter. What is it really all about? The Commonwealth is to provide SI 2.8m and the Queensland Government $8. 3m. That is a total of about $20m. But this figure is not the true cost. This is for only some of the works. The cost of .the total works when completed will amount not to a mere $ 12.8m provided by the Commonwealth nor even to the $20m supplied by the Commonwealth and the State. In the long run the scheme is estimated to cost S47m. Nearly $50m is going into this scheme. The honourable member for Riverina said th:s is a bagatelle. I dare say that when we consider what has been spent in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area it is a bagatelle - but not to the taxpayers of this country, who are clamouring for many other things besides water conservation and irrigation. What is this expenditure to do? Tt is to provide irrigation for about 1,450 farms and some augmentation of the water supply to the town of Bundaberg. Irrigation for. 1,450 farmers to cost $47m! This is a fair round sum per farm when the total of $50m is divided by the 1,450 farms affected. 
Originally the farmers were given dry farms, not irrigated, and they were given larger areas because it was not irrigated. It was realised that to grow a quota of sugar they needed an extra area because the land was not irrigated. What is the posit;on of the sugar markets round the world? 
The honourable member says they are very good at present. I will say a few words about the past and future as well as the present. Nobody, not even the honourable member for Riverina, the honourable member for Dawson or any member of the Australian Country Party, has suggested that this land is to be used for anything but sugar. So what is the position of the sugar market? There has been a trend towards self-sufficiency in sugar by importing countries in recent years. The British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, under which we sell at a very satisfactory price, ends in about two or three years. If Britain by that time is in the European Common Market and buying sugar made from beet on the continent of Europe, the highly desirable British market will disappear or will be enormously reduced. Then there is the United States Sugar Act. The United States had a quarrel with a gentleman called Castro of Cuba some time ago. At that time Queensland vastly increased the production of sugar presumably either in the belief that the new market would last indefinitely into the future or in the equally likely belief that the Australian taxpayer would pay the losses of the sugar industry, forever. After all, it had some reason to think so. As to the International Sugar Agreement, the countries of the European Economic Community did not sign it. 
The costs of sugar to the Australian consumer, because of what we might call a tax upon the consumer, is enormous. The more we grow, the more it costs the Australian consumer as a kind of taxpayer, if you like. We have been told that unless we implement this scheme we will lose so much sugar production. Yes, and look at the extra price for sugar that the Australian consumer will pay. It is true, as the honourable member for Riverina said, that we need export income. We need the foreign exchange we earn from exports. He nods his head. He nearly nodded it off. We may pay a high or low price for the foreign exchange we earn from our exports. For $1 of foreign exchange we may have to pay $2 if we earn it by means of sugar exports. We may have to pay only $1.20 if we get it by some other more economic means. So we have to look at the cost of gaining $1 of export income. Sugar represents the least economic of all ways df gaining exchange through exports. I have here a table that was supplied to me by the Parliamentary Library, lt sets out the type of arrangement under which Australia sells sugar, the percentage of production of that type and the average price per long ton of raw sugar. Domestic sales represent 23% of production. Only 25%! The average price per long ton of sugar for domestic consumption is $140. The sales at a negotiated price - that would be with the United Kingdom and the United States - are 25% of production, and the average price per long lon is $100. Free world sales represent 50% of production - and increasing with the Bundaberg scheme - and the price is $60 per long ton. So the prospects for the sale of this additional sugar that is to be produced are. to say the least, pretty dismal. 
Now I come to the information supplied to this House in regard to a cost benefit study of this scheme. None has been supplied to this House. Some weeks ago I tried to get a cost benefit study from the Parliamentary Library. I was told that it had none. The best that it could do was to give me some sugar producers journal in which there was said to be some kind of summary of a report that had been made by the Queensland Government. This summary set out only matters that were of interest to the producers, such as how much water they were going to get, how much it would cost them, how many acres would be irrigated, and things of that kind. There was nothing there to enable members of this House to see how many farms would be irrigated: what that would cost: and what was the value of production from the farmers. 
My friend had something here. Oh, yes. later I got one. But this is the trouble- 
That is quite true. The honourable member would not have a copy. Honourable members would not have copies. Copies were made available to members of the Queensland Parliament, no doubt Country Party colleagues of our friends in the corner. Not only that, but I believe that there were 2 reports. One was provided to the Commonwealth. I understand that the proposition was then turned down. A subsequent report was made which no doubt was more encouraging. 1 do not know which was the report that 1 finally got. But let us pass over that. 1 have quoted before, and I quote again, a paragraph from the report of the Committee of Economic Inquiry, known as the Vernon Committee. In paragraph 17.73, the Vernon Committee said: 
We think . . . that there  would  he merit in the establishment of a Special  Projects  Commission, or some such body, willi  the  power lo investigate proposals for major development projects, wherever they are located, to advise governments on them, and to publish its findings. 
I wish to emphasise those words. I want to underline them; put them in italics; and write them in big letters:   . . and to publish its findings. 
There is everything right with it. The Vernon Committee continues: 
Such a body, if given sufficient powers and adequately .staffed, could do much both lo enlighten the public and to assist governments in arriving at the most informed decisions possible. 
Al this point, we can roll out the pork barrel that the honourable member for Riverina brought in. As I understood his long winded explanation of the criteria that would be applied, it was that we should not take loo much notice of boffins. We can read what they said but, in the end, a person should form his own judgment. 1 read that as meaning: 'Then we roll out the pork barrel'. That is the final criterion. Away with the boffins; roll out the pork barrel. That is as I understood the honourable gentleman. 
Now, if I may, I wish to make some brief comments on one or two speeches that I have heard. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  referred to the benefit from taxation derived from the growing of more sugar in Bundaberg. He said that this was a great asset. If the honourable gentleman had read  Dr Davidson's  book - this, of course, would be highly subversive as far as members of the Country Party were concerned - he would have appreciated the point that was therein made that if a similar amount of money was  expended in another and more  economic industry, as much, or more, will be derived from more taxation from that more economic investment of capital than would be derived by investing that capital in something like more sugar in Bundaberg. So, that argument falls flat on its face. 
Then, I think the honourable member for Riverina referred to droughts. Once again, anybody who has read  Dr Davidson's  book - and I commend it to honourable members- 
Yes. Anybody who has read that book will realise that where water storages have been installed, as on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area - I think he instanced it - the incidence of drought has been greater than elsewhere because people who run cattle are inclined to fatten them or to use the produce of the irrigation area to fatten them so that more cattle are there to be looked after and, when the drought comes, they die from thirst. 
Oh, well, this is merely the honourable member's assertion. I prefer the academic. No matter how much scorn is poured . upon academics, they are impartial to the partisan argument of the honourable member for Riverina who represents an irrigation area. But this is just a matter of preference. 
I wish to make a few positive comments here. Who does the Opposition think it is helping, and who do members on this side of the House think they are helping, by supporting the investment of taxpayers' money in non-economic industries? If this money were invested in economic industries - if it were invested for example in restructuring some of the primary industries like dairying which badly need it - I would agree wholeheartedly with this move. But no good is being done by simply wasting money by bolstering up declining industries, whether it be the sugar industry, the dairy industry, or whatever it may be. I support wholeheartedly - 1 have no objection; none whatever - the expenditure of public money on making industries viable by restructuring and by a variety of other means. 
I would be wholeheartedly behind a study, for instance, of the economics of transport and handling as they affect the wool industry. I would be wholeheartedly behind helping people who are in uneconomic industries on the land to get out of them or to use their land for some other purpose that is likely to be more economic. T would be glad to help them with regard to housing if they must move from their present holdings somewhere else. I would be glad to help them in retraining for some other job. I would be glad to help with social services where necessary to tide them over the interim period when they are becoming established in some other form of production. These are good things'. But the more money is wasted by putting it into declining industry the less money is available to spend on the real things that ought to bc being done in rural industries. 
This is the positive approach that we have failed to make on either side of this Parliament to the rural industries. This is positive. It might indeed mean spending more money; but the results would be worthwhile. If we continue to bolster declining industries' and not to develop economic industries, the economy must to that extent be weakened. I am not one-eyed about this matter. I am not saying that this ought to be done only in the primary industries. I have attacked also the policy of bolstering up uneconomic secondary industries. 
If it is, the honourable member was not listening or maybe he was not here. I had a few words to say a little while ago about hot water bags, for example. 
That is the truth. I am quite even handed about this. I believe that this country cannot survive unless our industries, primary and secondary, are made more efficient. At present, we are sailing along gaily because it happens that countries like Japan are happy to use Australia as a quarry. 
Yes. that is right. But if we are to develop the industries based on metals, we have to do a lot more than dishing out money to bolster declining industries without changing those industries or making them economic. If we waste money in this way, we shall not be able to build a strong economy. We shall not  be able to develop and defend this country. Indeed, I. believe that our very survival depends upon our looking at our primary and secondary industries with a very cold and critical eye and making them efficient. I believe that anybody who fails in this task is failing not only his party and his electorate but also Australia. This is a serious charge to make. I am sorry that it has to be made by the advocate of the Devil, because there are so many on the side of the angels on both sides of this House; we should find some more Devils. 
Just by way of conclusion, I state that 1 listened, as I always do, with great interest and enjoyment to the speech of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  He told us how this Bundaberg scheme was the result of petitions - in other words, pressure groups. He referred to humanitarian aspects. 
-1- Wei I. he says that that is right, lt is quite right. He could not refer to economic aspects. He was very wise' to steer clear of any attempt to justify this scheme on economic grounds. He spoke of the humanitarian aspect. 1 wish to say this: I do not deny the humanitarian aspect. I do not deny this. Having got ourselves into the fix that we are in at Bundaberg we will probably now have to go ahead with the scheme. I speak tonight not with a view to voting against the Bundaberg scheme; I speak on a matter of principle. I said at the beginning of my speech that I was not unduly concerned about the scheme, but in the future, for heaven's sake let us not continue to foster uneconomic production. Let us hear no more about expanding sugar production. Let us hear no more about expanding dairying production as we have heard from that successful warrior in Victoria who has a scheme for developing more dairies in his State. 
May I say something in conclusion about the role of the State in this matter, lt has been said that the principle that the States come up with the proposals . that they consider have first priority, and who are we in this Parliament to question the recommendations that a State may make? Let me say this: If something is done well let it still be done by those who do it: but if it is. done badly I think we must look at it with a critical eye and say: Is this the best way to do this thing? If the State has come up, as Western Australia did with the Ord scheme - a patent white elephant and a failure if ever there was one, 8 1 00m down the drain because there was an election in Western Australia - with the Bundaberg scheme just because some member is in trouble in the Bundaberg area, and if we continue always to apply the old pork barrel politics in this way then I think the question must arise in any unbiased mind - and I: am afraid there are not many here - is this the best way to decide upon projects, that is to accept the recommendations of the States. Before we accept the recommendations of States we should have cost benefit studies and the studies should be publicised, so that if the projects are phony or if they are for political purposes only, then because of the publicity the whole world will see that they are phoney, that they are political, that they are a waste of public money which is needed for a score of other things with infinitely higher priority, whether in regard to rural industries, education or whatever it may be. If  we  are to establish a firm economy it must  be  done on the basis of secondary industries, and education and science have an enormous part to play in this. That is national development. That, is the kind of national development that will make this country strong. We will not become strong  by  sponsoring schemes to bolster uneconomic primary industries. 

 Mr CORBETT (Maranoa) [10.231-1 have very much pleasure indeed in supporting the Bill and in opposing the amendment that has been moved  by  the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Before I proceed with a summary of my view of this scheme I would like to make some comments about some of the remarks made in the course of this debate. Firstly I would like to say that although this does not happen very often I do on this occasion agree with some of the comments of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  I agree with him when he said that the amendment would defeat the Bill. He put this very clearly and I was surprised to hear him receive some support from the other side of the House. 
1 address a question to the Treasurer. Noting that academic salaries are to be raised by from 17% to 20%, 3 years after the last adjustment. I ask whether the Treasurer will bear in mind in connection with the next Budget the fact that it is also 3 years since superannuated Commonwealth public servants have had an adjustment in the more modest payments due to them. 
Can the Minister for the Army give an assurance to the House and to the public, which has paid for it, that he will table the report of the Fox Committee on the Royal Military College, Duntroon, before the forthcoming recess, that is, in the next day or two? 
I find myself in agreement with the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I was inclined earlier to think that this poor, miserable, paltry measure of reform  of  Parliament, as far as it goes, had some merit. But listening to the honourable member for Newcastle and considering what has happened in the past I realise that there is immense merit in what he had to say. I think that the proposal would make Parliament simply into a quicker rubber stamp. Let us have a look at a little bit of history. Let us first of all think about a few statistics. This Parliament sits fewer days and fewer weeks in the year than any other comparable parliament, far fewer than Westminster and far fewer than Ottawa. We sit very few weeks and very few days of the year, much fewer than either of those other parliaments. At the end of last year the House sat for - a day, was it? I was not here. Then the autumn session started rather late this year, later than usual, and it ran through for a long time because the Government lost control of the House. It tried to steamroller measures through. It met with turbulence and opposition and then was too timid to gag when the gag should have been applied. So we dithered through that period. This session in which we are now engaged has started later than any Budget session than I can remember, on 18th August. My recollection is that the Budget session usually started on about the first Tuesday in August. This time it started on the 18th. Let it not therefore be said that there are not enough weeks in the year. Let us look at the proposal and see what it is. Let us get down to detail. 
We are debating this proposal: 
That the  report  of the Standing Orders Committee in its relation to the general matters of (a) sitting days ... be endorsed. 
Let us have a look at the question of sitting days. It is not just a matter of sitting on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in 1 week and on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in the next. The recommendation about sitting days also involves sitting hours; let us be clear about that. In the past the major parliamentary committees - I refer in particular to the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Public Accounts Committee - have sat on Tuesday mornings. Under this system it will be impossible for them to do that. When will they sit? Nobody has told us. Not only that, but the hours of sitting involved in this little matter of '(a) the sitting days' involves snatching an hour here. an hour there, cutting back meal times and things of this sort. I am not so much concerned with meals but it so happens that this Parliament has the heathenish practice of having party committees at meal times. If the meal times are cut short, so are the opportunities for party committees. So under this system it will be made very difficult for the parliamentary committees to sit. The time in which party committees can sit will be cut down. 
Now I come to the point that there is no guarantee whatsoever that at the end of the fortnight's sitting under this new proposal - this new cycle, this bicycle that the Minister has referred to - we shall know what is to be the business for the next fortnight. If we could use that week in between to prepare speeches for the fortnight that follows all would be well, but experience teaches me that we shall never know what is happening from day to day. 
I may want to know too much, f know. Under the present system at least sometimes one has the opportunity of knowing one week what is coming on the next week. If you are not quite as assiduous as, I think, the honourable member for Robertson, then you may even find a day in the weekend to make some preparation of a speech for the following week. With these things in mind - and these are the results of history and bitter experience of what happens - I believe, with the honourable member for Newcastle, that all that would happen as a result of this change is that the Parliament would sit for fewer weeks in the year, there would be less opportunity to question the Executive and we would rush through legislation with even less notice of what was coming than we have had in the past. I believe this would be to the detriment of Parliament. While my heart bleeds for the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  I believe that Parliament is more important than Canning. 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs a question which relates to the Australian journalist Francis James. The right honourable gentleman will recall that I raised this matter with him in correspondence recently. I ask whether all avenues have been explored to discover the whereabouts of  Mr Francis  James and to restore him if possible to his family and his country. In particular 1 ask whether inquiries have been made of the relevant authorities in the United Kingdom, Canada, the Republic of China, Hong Kong and even some tracking and labour organisations in this country which have contacts with China? In any event, I ask, whether or not all of these avenues have been explored, that efforts be redoubled to discover his whereabouts and to restore him to his country. 
I have listened for some time to this debate wilh growing impatience. Perhaps, for a few moments, the House might bear with me. What is the motion before us now? The motion is that the Standing Orders should be suspended to permit the discussion of a certain matter arising from a motion that has been moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden).  The whole of this morning was given over to a Bill brought in by the Opposition to provide for representation in the Senate of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Debate on the Bill proceeded throughout the morning and, at the instance of the Opposition, was continued for some time this afternoon. Then, after a number of second reading speeches - poorly read - we moved on to the motion moved by the Leader of the House. 
What was the motion? The motion was: 
That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation . . . in relation to a number of sub-headings outlined by the Minister. The Committee was to deal with the DFRB legislation  -  a clearly defined field, all to itself. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  moved an amendment to extend the inquiry by that committee into the DFRB legislation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seeks an inquiry:  . . in relation to the whole defence forces (i) pay and allowances for all personnel, (ii) provision for retraining of officers and men, (iii) housing and (iv) educational facilities for the children of servicemen. 
That is another field completely. It is a very important field and nobody denies this. The Opposition, having spent the whole morning and part of the afternoon dealing with a Bill which it was quite entitled to bring forward, now seeks to foist another debate which is totally unrelated to defence forces retirement benefits onto this House and so occupy the whole day with 
Do not try to put words into my mouth. This is a most important matter but this is not the time for it to be debated in association with something which has nothing whatever to do with it. The Opposition has taken up the time of the House this day. By some little cooperation, if that is ever possible in this place - and without that the place must fall into chaos and decay - it might have been possible to arrange a suitable time, not necessarily today but early next week, when this most important matter could have been properly debated, maybe on a statement from the Minister, maybe on a motion from the Opposition. By some means under the forms of the House we could have had a proper debate at a proper time instead of fiddling around wasting time with all kinds of points of order taken, disagreement with the Speaker's rulings and all this, which is merely a waste of the time of this House. It is the very kind of thing about which we were talking last night and we fall into this very chaos again today. This has nothing to do with the merits of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has to put. lt is purely concerned with a proper, orderly time and place for dealing with an important matter. That is all. f watch with growing concern and impatience a House simply falling in to chaos and decay. 
-In recent times I think there has been a marked diminution in the interest of honourable members in the debates in this House. A similar trend is to be observed among the public. It is suggested that this proposal to reduce the quorum will facili tate the business of the House by enabling members to attend to other matters within their sphere of responsibility, such as sitting on committees and carrying out research in the Library. But I am moved to wonder whether this diminution in interest, both on the part of members and the public, is not a deep seated ailment in our parliamentary institution. I take this opportunity to offer some observations on this matter because I believe it goes to the very root of the problems that confront us. 
Some people think that the archaic forms of the House are to blame. There are many forms that could well be dispensed with in the interests of despatch. There are others that I believe should not be discarded merely because they derive from the past. I for one regret very much that on the representations of one honourable member of this House the name Strangers Gallery' was altered to 'Visitors Gallery'. The term 'Strangers Gallery* reminds us that there was a time when the King's friends were regarded with apprehension and suspicion when they appeared in the Parliament and observed who was inimical to the interests of the Crown because by carrying their message to the King they might bring about a situation where the hostile member was dealt with, perhaps on the gibbet. Well, the King is now in the House - that is to say, the Government and its Ministers have usurped the position of the King. The King is with us; the strangers are right here in the chamber. There is something to be said for retaining a little custom like that in order to remind us of something fundamental in our institution. 
The more important reason for lack of interest in debates is machine politics. We have a caucus on each side of the House and there is no doubt, generally speaking, as to the result of any division. There is no doubt as to what members on each side of the House will say and where there is no suspense or expectancy. Where there is nothing unexpected, then naturally public interest wanes. It is the same with drama and it is true of Parliament. Lack of interest is also due to the quality of debates. For example, little information is offered by the Government to the House and there is no real machinery whereby honourable members can obtain this information for themselves. 
I might at this stage just mention 2 matters. Soon we shall be voting on the Budget which includes a large expenditure by way of grants to the States. We have had no information given to us about the Premiers' conference that dealt with these matters. The Government has appointed no committee, as I have urged, to look into this vexed question of Federal-State relations. We shall be voting in the dark on any amount allocated to the States. The debate will be utterly uninformed and of no value whatsoever because we have been given no information. Again, we have seen the various references in the Press about the report of some wool committee. My guess is that one day a Minister will come into the Government party room and in IS minutes explain a little bill involving the expenditure of $100m. Then, after a desultory debate in the party room, he will come into the House, read a second reading speech rather badly, taking perhaps 20 minutes, and the matter will then come up for debate in the following week on the basis of what he said in that speech. 
In these circumstances, where we have a totally uninformed House, is it any wonder that there is not much interest either among members or among the public as to what is happening in this place? Debates are uninformed. They are not worth listening to, either by members themselves or by the public. 
We never know what is coming on for debate from week to week, from day to day or even from hour to hour. For example, let us consider today's proceedings. We commenced at 10.30 a.m. but nobody had the slightest idea of what was going to happen, even from hour to hour. Yet as soon as the House rises we see statements made by Ministers outside the House which are reported in the Press, either in part or in whole. Because the House is not sitting there is no possibility of questioning Ministers about the matters mentioned in such statements. There is no idea that the Parliament is the place in which a Minister should make a statement. This used to be so once but the custom has fallen into desuetude. Therefore it is not surprising that the public and members are not interested in what happens here; it all happens in the Press. 
I refer now to Federal-State conferences. A few minutes ago I mentioned the Pre miers' conference. In addition to those conferences there are conferences of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General, Agricultural Ministers, Health Ministers and Education Ministers. Then the responsible Minister comes back to this House and produces a Bill designed to implement something or other that was decided at such a conference. Of course then the House is expected to vote for the Bill in toto, lt cannot possibly be altered because its contents have been agreed upon between sovereign powers. As a result the debates in the House on these matters are not of very great value. The debate took place previously in the Press when the conference decisions were reported. 
There is a lack of co-operation behind the Chair, if I may use that phrase. We saw an example of that this afternoon. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  brought up an important matter which should have been debated. The question was whether it should have been debated this afternoon. We wasted a very large part of the day talking about when a debate could be held in an orderly fashion. This matter could have been settled behind the Chair. 
There is lack of discipline on the part of members themselves. Supposing there is before the House a Bill dealing with Meals on Wheels, or wheat or what have you. Every honourable member who happens to have old people or wheat growers in his electorate has to say his piece so that his words can be reported in the local newspaper in his electorate. Very well; we must accept the realities. However with a little bit of discipline honourable members might say their piece in 5 minutes and we might be able to get on with the business of the House. This would provide a fair deal for them and would be reasonable for the House. But no; each honourable member will spend all his time, 30 minutes, on such a matter. 
But there are more fundamental reasons why nobody is very interested in what happens in the House. There is one other reason which is perfectly obvious. 1 refer to the elimination of the standing order which stated that members might not read their speeches. Now they can read their speeches. Every honourable member knows what is said about speeches that are read: More often than not they were not worth making and were badly read as well. 
They are not worth reading and usually they are badly read. That is what has happened in this place. The cut and thrust of debate has gone because honourable members read little essays propped up in front of them on lecterns. The reasons I have given are obvious. There are more fundamental reasons. Australian parliaments never have been the great forums of the nation, attracting the best people and the most influential people in the country, such as happens, for example, in the House of Commons in England. This is due to our rural and colonial past. What was required was roads and bridges and some lobbying to get them built. This is part of our history. Because of our history the quality of our parliaments has suffered. Because of geography, because people have to spend their time in Canberra, busy men cannot afford to be members of this Parliament and spend all their time here. Busy and influential men can spend part of their time in the House of Commons at Westminster and give of their expertise and at the same time attend to their business. Indeed, they are the better informed for doing so. But we have a bush capital in Australia and therefore a bush parliament. 
Certain social factors are involved as well. For example, everybody is educated today and more people are better educated than ever before. They are reading newspapers, books, paperbacks and so on. The forum for debate, for the various reasons I have given, has moved from this chamber into other areas altogether. It has moved into newspapers, books and, in particular, television. There is more real debate in a television programme like This Day Tonight' or 'Four Corners' on things which really matter than ever happens in this House. Tha Commonwealth Public Service has also changed. It now contains very able people who are called upon to perform practically a political role these days. In the middle of the last century they were clerks, but today they are very able men who are also politicians assisting their Ministers. The result is that the Ministry and the Public Service are running the country and the Parliament has become perhaps one of the least important forums in which great matters are debated. 
This fact has been completely and fully recognised in Canada. I was very interested to speak with members of the Canadian Parliament on this subject towards the end of last year. They recognised that all these things were happening and that, above all, the situation had arisen where there was, on the one hand, the Prime Minister - a charismatic man like Pierre Trudeau - and, on the other band, the public at large and the Parliament, which used to be the representative of the people - this intermediary - was ceasing to matter. They were very conscious of this situation. We here do not appear to be awake to it yet. I should point out that I understood from members of the Canadian Parliament that  Mr Trudeau  himself was as conscious of this as anybody else and that he was as anxious as any other member of the Canadian Parliament to see the establishment of a system of committees which makes even our widest proposals seem exceedingly narrow. The situation is arising in Australia from the picture and there is a direct relationship between a Prime Minister and the public at large. I think this is the emerging pattern. The question is what is to be done about it. The Canadians have their answer. I understand that shortly an amendment will be moved to the motion which is at present before the House which may give us part of the answer along the lines followed by the Canadians. There is one other matter I might mention if we are thinking that Parliament is sinking into oblivion and is worth rescuing - some of us think it is. 
If I could afford to do so I think I would do it today or tomorrow. As it is I look forward to resigning at the time of the next general election, which cannot come too soon. Let me make it clear to honourable members that that is the extent of the depth of my despair about this place. From this honourable members may understand that I really mean what I am saying now. I think I should draw the attention of the House to one thing which was discussed in the House of Commons in the last 3 or 4 years. This is the question, not of televising the whole of the proceedings of Parliament - God forbid - but to- 
 I was attempting in my own poor way to indicate why I thought there was a lack of interest in the proceedings of the House. I began by saying that for some time before this proposal was introduced there has been a decline in the interest of honourable members in the proceedings of the chamber. This might have something to do with the motion which is now before the House. I was seeking to analyse the reasons for this decline. For example, from time to time I receive on my desk from the Government Whip a list indicating the hours when I should be sitting in the chamber looking as though I am interested. I always put it in the wastepaper basket because I believe it is impertinent for the Government Whip or anybody else to tell me what time I should spend in the House. These messages that I receive indicate a lack of interest in the proceedings, although the people in the gallery of the House may think that honourable members are interested even when they are not. An intelligent member of Parliament would not be in the House listening to repetitive speeches or wrangles which are of no significance whatsoever.  1  look to the real reasons behind the decline in interest in the proceedings. If we were to have a reduced quorum the decline in interest would become even more apparent than it is now. I would rather cure the real evils, the real reasons, why people do not attend in their places in the Parliament than reduce or alter in any way what constitutes a quorum. The way to get people into this House is to have some reality in its proceedings, for the House to matter. But if we continue to conduct our affairs in the way that we do the House will not matter and we will always have to ring the bells and enforce a quorum in order to get the minimum number of honourable members to come in here to pretend that they are interested. I suggest that another approach might be so to order our affairs that there was a genuine interest in the proceedings. There would then be no need to reduce the quorum because the question of a quorum would be irrelevant. I believe that this is germane to the matter before the House, but,  Sir, as  you have ruled that it is not I resume my seat. 
The motion before the House, omitting detail that does not matter for this purpose and in order to clarify what is proposed, is this: 
That ... at eleven o'clock p.m. on each Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday ... the  Speaker  shall propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate . . . 
Provided that: 
. . . 
if, on the question - That the House do now adjourn - -being proposed, a Minister requires the question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question. 
. . 
. . . 
if the question-That the House do now adjourn- is negatived, the House shall resume the proceedings at the point at which they had been interrupted. 
This seems to be an exceedingly complex and clumsy way of indicating what is proposed to be done. Put in simpler terms it means, I think, that at 11 o'clock the proceedings are interrupted. Then the Minister may simply say to the Speaker: '1 require the question to be put forthwith' and then without debate the question has to be put and the House decides whether it will adjourn. On the other hand, there may be a debate on whether we should adjourn. The Opposition may object. In that case a vote will follow at some time and the House will decide whether it will adjourn. This is a highly complex procedure. 
There is only one simple point that 1 want to put. All sides of the House, and almost all members of the House, are of the opinion that normally 1 1 o'clock is late enough to finish the proceedings, not because we are weaklings, not because we have some party political advantage to seek but simply because if members leave the House later than 11 o'clock it is impossible for them to get enough sleep to enable them with clear minds to attend to their business the next day. That is the simple position. It does not matter whether a member happens to be an aged fellow like myself or a young fellow like some I see before me. No man, young or old, can go to bed as late as we go to bed and come back with a mind clear and able to cope with the business of the House the next day. You will see,  Mr Speaker,  that the motion leaves the adjournment at 11 o'clock in the hands of the Leader of the House who may or may not confer with the spokesman for the Opposition. We have seen time and again a failure to reach agreement between the Leader of the House and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, wrangles ensue, time is wasted, nothing is gained. 
Standing Orders are a splendid thing. We could not get along without them. But the spirit in which the Standing Orders are used is at least of equal importance. In the House of Commons which has more than 600 members, unless some rationality was introduced into discussions between the spokesmen for the two parties behind the Speaker's chair or elsewhere it would be absolutely impossible to conduct business. We in this bush Parliament of ours have developed a tradition that is wholly bad - a tradition of wringling in the party spirit, wasting time, not getting on with the business of the nation, paying no concern to the very purpose for which we are sent here. Wc have fallen into this bad practice, this bad habit, this bad tradition. I believe that until some rationality is introduced into the arrangements made between the spokesmen for both sides, we shall continue to flounder as we have done in the past without advantage to ourselves and, what is far worse, without advantage to those whom we come here to represent. So I say that as a normal thing and without any doubt whatever this House should adjourn at 1 1 o'clock. 
There are those who think that I am a vague kind of person, that 1 do not come up with specific proposals, tha* I do not move amendments which will command the support of the House, that I do not run around trying to gain support for some specific and practical proposal. Let me say that 1 propose now to be entirely practical. I propose to inform my Whip that at 11 o'clock, unless good reason is given why we should continue, I shall go home. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General, lt relates to the answer which he gave a few days ago to the honourable member for North Sydney on the Australian content of television programmes. I ask the Postmaster-General whether he will use his best endeavours to do several things: Firstly, will he obtain a report at the earliest possible opportunity from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board on this matter; secondly, will be make a statement on this subject In the Parliament and table the report of the Broadcasting Control Board; thirdly, will he move that the paper he noted; and, fourthly, will he ensure that the matter is adequately debated before the next recess of the Parliament? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to refer to the recommendation of the-- 
I am not quite sure how this debate is being conducted. I assume that in speaking now I must say all that I have to say on the multifarious matters before the House on this motion. On the question of meeting at 10.30 rather than at 10 and meeting at 2.30 instead of 2, I agree to the later hours as indicated by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  and as moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  But one thing sticks in my gizzard a little bit. The reason why I say that is that  Mr Speaker  has circulated a note pointing out the difficulties that' the clerks will have in servicing the House if we have the earlier sitting time, that is, 10 o'clock instead of 10.30 and 2 o'clock instead of 2.30. The thing that does, in that vulgar expression, stick in my gizzard is this sentence in  Mr Speaker's  note: 
As the pattern of the programme for a sitting day may not become clear until 1 p.m. or later, a meeting of the House at 2 p.m. imposes a like pressure and problem. 
I have myself complained in various places and on many occasions about the lack of organisation that leaves members in the dark about what is to be the pattern of debate. The fact that the clerks will not know at 1 o'clock what is to be the pattern of debate if the House is to meet at 2 o'clock is, of course, as deplorable as I have always said. But despite this, if the muddles of the leadership of the House may result in the. killing of the clerks I would wish to preserve their lives. For this reason they should not be the victims of government muddle. I recall a saying that people who join the Army are muddled about by experts, but since I have come here I have discovered that there are others who arc better at it than the Army ever was. But let that pass. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has raised the matter of sitting over the dinner period. I want to look at 2 or 3 matters relating to this. Firstly, he referred to the mechanics of it. We have not had this in detail, but I presume it would mean we would not all go to eat between, say, 1 o'clock and 2 o'clock, or between 1 o'clock and 2.30; we would have to go at 12 o'clock, at 1 o'clock or at 1.30. We would have to have a running meal with several sittings if we were to do this. This involves all sorts of mechanical problems. 1 am not so much concerned about the mechanics of it. No doubt in the course of time, with such wit and ingenuity as the Leader of the House, the Government and the clerks have, these tremendous problems of mechanics can be solved. 1 am more concerned about 2 other matters. I think it was the late Edmund Burke who was referred to as the dinner bell of the House of Commons.  His  oratory was splendid if it was read but, heard, it was a bit like some of the lectures we have in this House. I am afraid that there are so many .dinner bells here, including myself, that the House would be almost always empty on the occasions when they spoke. The stomach speaks louder than words. If the proposal to sit over the dinner period were adopted we would have the spectacle of  Mr Speaker  sitting in the chair, Hansard sitting at the other end of the table, one honourable member making a speech and an otherwise utterly empty House. There are some people who speak better to several people or even to a crowd than they would to Hansard, however important Hansard may be, and, of course, to  Mr Speaker.  I do not know where the Press would be at meal time on these occasions. Again, the stomach might speak louder than the eloquence of members who are addressing the House. To come to a fine point, the House would be empty and deserted. It would look like a Parliament that did not care, that did not matter, that had no significance. Anybody looking at it from the gallery would say: 'If this is Parliament, heaven help the country.' And how right they would be. The appearance of the Parliament would betoken something that would not matter. I know very well that there are many occasions here, apart from dinner bells, when the House does not look like the great assembly of the nation. But this would be the ultimate in the degradation of Parliament, to all appearances at least. So this is my first point. 
My second point is even more important. During the dinner hour the radio puts on news programmes and other important and interesting matters for the public at large, and it is quite inconceivable that the radio or the public would tolerate having that period occupied by the broadcasting of parliamentary debates. Would this matter? There is not great eloquence in this House. It may be that the public would welcome the surcease of their sorrow. But what is the importance of the radio to Parliament? Let me illustrate this very simply and, if I may say so, very dramatically. I recall very well a debate on certain allegations that were made by responsible persons about what happened in the Voyager' the ship that honourable members will remember sank off Jervis Bay after a collision. There were 3 members in this House who had the courage to get up finally after the matter had been taken to the Government, to the Prime Minister of the day, to the Minister for the Navy, I think, and the Attorney-General. 
After the matter had been taken to them for redress and when nothing was done, the matter was raised in the Government party room, and still nothing was done. Only when at long last a most loyal member of the Government parties - much more loyal than I would ever hope or wish to be - mentioned the matter here was it brought into the House. He was supported by 2 other honourable members. What happened? Because it went out from this place it came back in a tidal wave against the Government. I will say this without fear of contradiction: If this had been left to the House to remedy, if it had been left to the Government and the Government parties to remedy, there would have been no justice done. There would have been no inquiry. The Government would have had almost the full support on its side of the House. Three members might have voted against k and the Opposition would have made what capital it could out of the situation, but there would have been no remedy and no justice. The only thing that brought about justice in this case was that this went out to the public and it went out to the Press, and it came back in a tidal wave that overwhelmed the Prime Minister of the day. He was forced - not by the members on the Government side of the House, not by the Opposition, not by the Parliament but by public opinion outside - to institute an inquiry which proved amply to justify what had happened. 
Here was a matter that shrieked for inquiry and for justice and nothing was done about it here. What was said here in the end by 3 people forced the Prime Minister of the day to take action, although he would have had the full support of his Party in taking no action. How important is it then that what is said in this place should go out from this place and come back to this place? But it is proposed that, we should sit over the dinner period when Hansard is in the place because it has to be, when  Mr Speaker  is in the Chair because he has to be, when perhaps there is not another member in the House, when to anybody looking on the Parliament appears to matter not one jot, and when the effectiveness of any speech that is made is completely lost because it does not get out and come back against the Government or to compel the Government to take action. 
So apart from the mechanics of this thing, 1 am utterly opposed to this sitting over the dinner hour. We are told about the House of Commons. Yes, with over 600 members ruling, as it has until lately, not only a large population in the United Kingdom but an empire, they need the dinner hour. They need all the time they can get. But this Parliament sits less - fewer days, fewer weeks - than the House of Commons, than the Mouse of Commons in Canada, than the Parliament in New Zealand. It cannot be said that we have to sit over the dinner hour because there are not enough weeks in the year. We have ample time. We do not have the problem that, the House of Commons has. 
There is one other thing I want to say, too as, presumbaly, I must say all T want to say in this one speech, 1 want to say a word about the adjournment of the House. 
The Leader of the House has referred to this matter. True, it is the subject of a sessional order but the Leader of the House has referred to this already and he has referred to starting times. Those who are concerned, as we are now, with starting times may be pardoned if they regard the finishing time as relevant also to the starting time. So we come to the adjournment. At 1 1 o'clock the  Speaker  at present must move the motion for the adjournment and then, as often as not by arrangement, the House nevertheless sits on well after 1 1 o'clock. This should stop because honourable members are not fit when they get too little sleep to deliberate. Perhaps they ure not meant to deliberate. Perhaps they are not meant to have their minds fit for debate. But 1 will pass over that horrible suspicion and attribute it rather to lack of organisation - not intentional but just a muddle. 
Apart from this 11 o'clock performance, I come to those adjournment debates when, on the motion that the House do now adjourn, honourable members may address themselves to whatever they feel to be important for their electorate or the public at large, no matter what it may be. The proposal - indeed I think it is incorporated in the sessional orders already - is that this should cut off automatically at midnight. Never mind what happens, never mind how important the debate which is proceeding; it should be cut of automatically at midnight. I do not speak about this because I happened to be a victim of it the other night, although that really illustrates the point I want to make. For 15 years I. was for my sins a member of the State Parliament of New South Wales at a time when it was ruled by a Labor Government. I do not want to introduce any party spirit into this. I merely mention this by way of indicating that this is what happens when governments are in office for a long time. It can be a Labor government; it can be a Liberal government: i do not mind. I am speaking about a principle and an institution. At that time the adjournment debate began automatically at 20 minutes past 10 and terminated at half past 10. No matter what happened, that was the position. The only matters that could be raised were those which related to a member's own electorate and were specific and were urgent; that is all. 
Apart from that motions of importance - or urgency as they were called - had to be voted urgent by the House. This meant that the Government never found that anything was urgent. Sydney could have been burning but the Parliament was debating the Goat and Dog Act. That is the importance of the opportunities to deal with matters, to have that latitude that we have here on the motion for the adjournment. I believe that that debate should go on for as long as the House feels that it ought usefully to continue; that it ought to be cut off not automatically at midnight, nor automatically at any time; if it starts at 1 1 o'clock let it run as long as it should. This is a matter of judgment for the Leader of the House. No doubt in conference directly - or because he understands his thoughts - with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition it should be cut off at an appropriate time. It may go until half past 11; it may go until a quarter to 12; it may go until 12 o'clock; it may go until 1 o'clock; it may go until 2 o'clock. But this depends entirely on what is going forward. I would not be one who would wish to see the adjournment debate cut off at any stated time, as has been done under the sessional order. 
I said this in another place, where sometimes it matters and sometimes it does not, and I say it again: This is a great mistake and it will be found to be a great mistake as time goes on. The Opposition will find it so while it is in opposition, and if the Government Parties find themselves in opposition they will find it so, too. I am not being one-eyed about this. It may be that the debate ought to continue because the Government speakers wish to go on. It may be that it ought to continue because the Opposition ought to be heard on whatever the matter may be. 
The final thing I wish to say is this: We are dealing with the Standing Orders. These are our rules. They are very important. We must have them. They must be written down. But this place will not function effectively unless a spirit of cooperation exists. Certainly, the House of Commons with its membership of over 600 would, grind to a halt unless arrangements were made behind the Chair. Bills should be ready for presentation here. What we see time and again is that important Bills are introduced late in the session - in the last week or the last fortnight of the session - and then we sit until 1 o'clock, 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock in the morning debating them. This is partly because the Bills are simply not ready and partly because no co-operation has taken place behind the Chair between the spokesmen from both sides of the House on sitting arrangements and no co-operation has existed to ensure that proper time is agreed upon for the more important debates. It is the Government's fault if its important Bills are not ready. It is the fault of the spokesmen for the Opposition and for the Government if they do not agree to an orderly debate so that important matters receive the time that they ought to receive and so that unimportant matters are dealt with expeditiously and are cleared out of the way.  Mr Speaker,  that is all that I wish to say. 
In general terms the report of the Standing Orders Committee recommended cutting down the maximum length of speeches by 5 minutes. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  seeks to cut them down by a further 5 minutes, making a total reduction of 10 minutes. The whole thrust - to use a popular word - of these so-called reforms is to cut down the time of speeches, to sit through the dinner hour so that we may occupy less time at other periods of the day, to cut down the number required for a quorum - to cut down in all directions. One might suppose, therefore, that this Parliament was very short of time and that this was the essence of these so-called reforms. That is true of the House of Commons with its 600 members and the vast amount of business it has to do; but it has no relation whatever to this Parliament, which sits for fewer weeks in the year and for fewer days by far than the House of Commons at Westminster, the House of Commons in Canada or even the Parliament in New Zealand. Why should we have this frantic attempt to save time? That is the last thing with which we ought to be concerned. We have plenty of time for deliberation. The whole thrust of these socalled reforms is to cut down time. Why should that happen now? 
It is a matter of common knowledge that only yesterday the Government parties decided that they would have nothing to do with proposals put forward by  Mr Speaker  for the establishment of standing committees of this House. So the whole argument that we must cut down time in all directions to enable committees to meet is plainly nonsense. Only yesterday the Government parties, which have a majority in this place, decided quite flatly that they would have nothing to do with standing committees. We are told that there are a lot of Party committees to be held. So there are. It has been said that justice must not only be done but it must be seen to be done. It is equally important that Parliament should not only do its work but that it should be seen to be doing its work. If everybody is to creep into some hole and say: 'We are having a Party committee meeting', nobody would know whether it is working or not. 
This so-called reform that has characterised all these proposals has been no reform at all. I want to finish with a quotation, if my memory serves me, about the time when the Executive really took over finally, and for centuries, in Rome. My recollection is that Gibbon said that Augustus was conscious that mankind is governed by names and that if he respectfully assured the people that they still possessed their ancient freedoms they would submit to slavery. Mankind is governed by names. We have been told that these proposals are reforms. The whole intent and thrust of these reforms is to cut down in every direction the deliberations of this House. I will have nothing to do with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison who, very significantly and symbolically, was the man who moved the gag earlier in this debate, ls this a matter of small importance and just a matter of the convenience of members of the House? Is it just a little machinery matter? This is something which may stand in this Parliament for years and years. What honourable members do tonight - we were about to adjourn because it was so unimportant - will probaly affect the quality of this Parliament and the quality of its deliberations for years to come. This is not an unimportant matter and the whole thrust of these so-called reforms flies right in the face of the very meaning of the word reform. We are governed by names. We should look at the realities that lie beneath these so-called reforms. 
 I  agree with some of the things which the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has said and disagree with others. He is right, I think, in saying that there ought to be a fresh approach to the problem of allocating resources between the Commonwealth and State and local governments. Indeed, I have put forward some proposals in this regard although, of course, they have been ignored. But 1 believe that once we depart from principle we find ourselves in a bog and a morass from which it is very difficult to extricate ourselves. When funds are distributed between these 3 forms of government on an ad hoc basis we find ourselves in precisely the troubles which the Commonwealth Government now faces. 
Again, I agree with the honourable member for Chifley in saying that we ought to be much more critical about the forms in which foreign investment comes to this country. I do not propose to embark upon a discussion on either of those matters now. I disagree with the honourable member for Chifley in regard to the Government's reduction of income tax. I believe that, in the first place, it is important that incentive should be given, as if' may be, by such reductions even though taxation is increased in other directions by a like amount - and I do not agree that it has been increased by a like amount in this Budget. But, again, I do not propose to pursue this matter because I rose really to make a plea on behalf of 27,000 people who are retired Commonwealth public servants. I should be ungracious indeed if I did not refer to the assistance that I have had in presenting this matter to the Committee from the  President  of their Association who is one of my esteemed - and I repeat esteemed - constituents. I speak for them tonight. 
Inflation reduces the benefit payable to them unless adjustments are made to take account of this fall in the value of money, that has gone on continuously since World War II. If justice is to be given, that adjustment must be made to offset this decline in the purchasing power of money and it must be made in sufficiently frequent intervals to enable these people to keep pace with this continual decline. It is no use saying that, in the long run, they catch up because, as somebody has remarked, in the long run we are all dead and they in particular because their days tend to be numbered. 
In 1961, the notional salary adjustment scheme was introduced by the then Treasurer, the late right honourable Harold Holt. He described this scheme at the time, justly I think, as the fairest method yet devised. This was accepted by those for whom I speak tonight. The Superannuation Fund is derived from 2 sources. Firstly, of course, the proceeds from the investments of contributions made by officers themselves while they are employed by the Commonwealth and, secondly, a contribution from the Commonwealth as an employer. The upgrading of the superannuation payment after an officer leaves the service and ceases to be a contributor to the Superannuation Fund obviously can be made in respect of the Commonwealth contribution only. The essence of the notional salary adjustment scheme is that this part of the payment is now related to the salary that the retired officer would have been receiving in his particular grade and appointment had he retired at the time when the last upward adjustment of superannuation payments was made. This means simply that the officer who retired 3 years, 6 years, 9 years or more years ago should be no worse off as far as the Government contribution to his superannuation is concerned than the officer who has just retired. 
There is no dispute about the basis on which adjustments are made periodically - that is, the fairness and the adequacy of the amount determined. The bone of contention arises from the time lag. Let mc set out in 3 columns, first, the years when provision was made in the Budget for an addition from Government sources to the Superannuation Fund, on the principle already described; secondly, the dates on which the amount of the increase in superannuation payments was to be calculated; and, thirdly, the length of the consequent time lag. Now, provision was made in the 1961-62 Budget for an increase based on the relevant salaries paid in July 1954. This meant that there was a time lag of 7 years. Provision was again made in the 1963-64 Budget based on the relevant salaries paid on 12th July 1961. Again there was a time lag. It was 3 years in this instance. Provision was made in the Budget of 1967-68 applicable as at 30th June 1967. This meant that the time lag had been overtaken in stages during the 6 years since this scheme was first introduced. 
But, in 1970-71 - the year with which we are concerned now - no provision has been made and already a retrogression of 3 years has occurred. We are beginning now to slip backwards again having, a few years ago, as it were, caught up. How much money is involved? In 1967-68, overtaking a 6-year lag, the Budget allocation was $7.7m. Even allowing for an increase in the number of retired Commonwealth public servants involved, the increased rate of inflation over the past 3 years and, of course, the increased salaries over this period, the cost on the most generous estimate could not conceivably exceed $1Om. Of course, there could be some off-sets. For example, there would be a reduction in the payments of age and invalid pensions in respect of those former officers in receipt of whole or part of such pensions. Again, there would be increases in income tax payments by many of the recipients on their higher pensions, and finally further liability for income tax by pensioners now entitled to age allowance concessions. I do not claim that these are large amounts but they are not entirely negligible. 
Moreover, it has to be considered that the Government, in the case of its superannuated servants, has had over the years the use of their contributions as captive loans for investment in Government securities. The amount of the Fund at 30th June 1968, for example, was $326m, of which $272m or 83 per cent was invested in loans to government and semigovernment authorities and $54m or 17 per cent in mortgages of land. The interest earned on the former type of investment was approximately 5 per cent whereas interest being paid by more than SO well established and profitable public companies registered on the Sydney Stock Exchange on debentures current at 31st December 1969 varied between 7 per cent and 8 per cent with some paying as high as 8i per cent. This was debentures only; I am not talking about growth stocks. The point can best be made by instancing a very large manufacturing enterprise whose superannuation fund has been invested in a wide range of equity and other securities enabling the value of the income so derived to rise at the same pace as the inflationary tide. Indeed, the Superannuation Fund established by the Government of New South Wales has been successfully managing on similar lines. 
I would like to quote from an American newspaper, the 'Herald-Examiner', dated 8th May 1970 where it is stated that 950,000 Federal annuitants and their survivors will receive increases in their superannuation payments. It goes on: 
Under the law, a 3-point rise over a 3-month period automatically results la an adjustment of Federal annuities. 
Of course, if such liberty of investment were now permitted in the case of the Commonwealth Fund it would be many years before such a policy could bear fruit and many retired Commonwealth public servants would have passed to another world in the interval. But their contribution to Government finance over the years should be taken into account in updating the amount of their superannuation payments here and now. It should have been done in the current Budget 
Finally, I would say that most of the important companies in Australia have established superannuation schemes, making greater or less provision for their former employees, but all without significant exception have recognised the principle of updating benefits to take account of the rising tide of inflation. Surely it is the duty, and indeed the privilege, of the Government to lead and not follow in this matter and to set an example. The swindle of inflation has affected too many people in this community already and the Government should not be a party to such a swindle. I conclude by expressing on behalf of these thousands of people who have devotedly served the Commonwealth deep disappointment that they have not received in this Budget compensation  for  the decline in the value of their superannuation payments but have again slipped 3 years behind, and these are precious years for retired people. Their days are drawing to an end. I express the hope that justice will be done in the next Budget and that the retrogression will not be allowed to proceed any further. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable, the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament asembled. The humble petition of residents of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
Australians, custodians of the world's largest marsupial, the Red Kangaroo, have allowed it to be reduced so low numerically that even CSIRO research has had to be suspended in some areas and alternative means of research employed in others. 
The Kangaroo is being exploited whilst facts on populations and numbers of kangaroos are unknown - any day the numbers can be reduced below that level needed for survival of droughts and natural mortality. At this dale neither the number needed for survival nor the number of kangaroos left is known. 
Pending the outcome of investigations by the Select Comittee, it can be logically assumed that shooters, fearing restrictive legislation in the future, will intensify their efforts to obtain as many animals as possible, while they can. We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly urge the State Governments to ban the shooting of kangraoos for commercial purposes, at least until the Select Committee has made its investigations and recommendations. 
Add to the Constitution a clause giving power to the Commonwealth Government to act to safeguard any species of wildlife that is endangered through any cause. 
And we your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the Australian content in radio and television programmes. Can the Minister give any up to date information regarding the progress of the inquiry at present being conducted into this matter by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? Will he in any event impress upom the Board the urgency of this matter, not only on account of the concern of Australians generally that a national identity should be reflected in such important media but also because many Australian writers and actors are rapidly losing their livelihoods? 
It is my purpose to address myself to the crisis in the rural industries generally and in the wool industry in particular. I do so for 3 reasons. Firstly, this is a very important sector of the economy. Secondly, it involves large contributions of taxpayers' money and other resources, from my constituents as well as from others. Thirdly, the maldistribution of resources in the economy means lower material standards for our people and reduced capacity to survive in a very difficult world. The crisis has been obvious for years. There is nothing new about it. It was perfectly obvious that Britain would have to go into the European Common Market. This was simply a matter of time. Also, the threat to the dairy industry and dried fruits industry, fresh fruits, sugar and jams because of Britain's entry has been evident for years. Again, the threat to wool from man made fibres has been perfectly evident for years. The cost price squeeze is by no means new. We have gone on with ad hoc measures as far as our tariff making is concerned in the face of the cost price squeeze. All this has been in addition to industrial unrest and other factors. 
What action has been taken by the Government over the years to deal with these foreseen and foreseeable problems? We have had all sorts of palliatives. We have had subsidies in the dairying industry which have increased the production of products that we could not sell. We have had irrigation schemes. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  referred to the Ord and mentioned cotton, which we cannot sell. Irrigation schemes have been implemented to increase the production of sugar which faces a highly dubious future. Compensation has been paid to rural industry. But the old shibboleths will not serve us very much longer, i mention such things as stabilisation, orderly marketing, protection all round, devaluation compensation, home consumption prices, guaranteed prices, cost of production, freight concessions, bounties on fertilisers and other commodities, tax allowances, low interest rates, reduced probate duties and research. This is the end of the road. These old palliatives will serve no longer. Indeed, the moment of truth has arrived. 
The present wool market is at its lowest ebb and it will be a miracle if Britain does not go into the European Common Market. What is wanted is a policy. Whan and how should a policy be framed to meet these circumstances? When? I suppose the only answer is long ago, but the time has passed so it is no use talking about it. The European Common Market and synthetics are things that have been with us for a long while and it is perhaps too late now to do anything. These are the years that the locusts have eaten. What would be the correct way to arrive at a policy designed to meet these problems? I suppose the way 22106/70- -R.-[5f] to do this, except in a bush parliament, would be firstly to ascertain the facts, secondly to identify the problems, and thirdly, to make proposals to meet the situation. All of these matters ought to have been ascertained by an expert committee. We should then have a discussion of the proposals. After this a statement should be made of the Government's policy in relation to these matters. Finally, there should be the opportunity for argument and persuasion to convince all of the people, not only the industries concerned, that the Government's policy is correct and just. Finally, of course- 
Yes, it is too late. I said so. I said this would have been the way to do it if the locusts had not eaten the years when it should have been done. There is now no time for this kind of thing. 
Let us have a look at the steps that have been taken in respect of the wool industry. Firstly, there was the report of the Philp Committee some years ago, which until now has been ignored. Then the Australian Wool Board set about promoting the sale of wool as an exclusive fibre. This has not been very successful. Then the Australian Wool Industry Conference - the wool growers parliament - found a conspiracy among buyers to keep down the price of wool. So it said: 'Let us establish a sellers' monopoly and jack up the price by manipulating the market. The world must have our wool'. Must it? Wool is not in a monopoly situation and you cannot use monopoly methods. Wool has to meet the competition of synthetics. Those suggestions by the AWIC were idiotic from the start. No attempt was made to point out that they were. Then we had the first interim report of the Australian Wool Board Advisory Commitee, published in July 1970. Part I of the report contained a statement of short term measures. The Commitee regarded these as the least important. The result has been an allocation of $30m in the current Budget. Part II gave very brief preliminary consideration after all these years to long term measures. The first of 2 long term measures was production readjustment through amalgamation of holdings. It was suggested that the New South Wales Rural Reconstruction Board might be the kind of authority that could help in this regard. In 1935 or thereabouts the South- West Commission in New South Wales was established in effect to reallocate holdings. A great part was played by the Rural Bank of New South Wales in this reconstruction. Of course, all of this means diversification and alternative occupations for those who have to leave the land. One would have thought that connected with this was the question of decentralisation of industry so that those who have to leave the land do not have to go into the already too large metropolitan areas. But we have done nothing about decentralisation. 
The second long term measure was in respect of marketing which involves the handling complexes, the presentation in lots of suitable size of wool, objective measurement, sale by sample and so on. Many of these things were in the Philp report but nothing was done because the industry was preoccupied with the conspiracy against wool. Finally, the Australian Wool Board produced a proposal for a single marketing authority - I have it here - in July 1970. Now, the objections to this method of procedure, apart from its taking so long, were first of all that since the Government - that is to say the taxpayers, including my constituents I am sorry to say - is intimately concerned in whatever is done about wool or the other commodities it should have appointed the committees to investigate and report. This should not have been left to the industries because its members were not the only people concerned. 
Secondly, the reports emanated from a source - I refer to the Wool Board - that has in any event failed in its efforts to rehabilitate this industry and lacks the confidence even of the industry itself and certainly of the informed public. These reports, of course, were not even distributed among members of' this Parliament. This is how much this Parliament matters in these things. I have been criticised sometimes for saying so. Thirdly, of course, these reports bear all the marks of hasty preparation. It is a wretched result after many years. The issue is now wrapped up in hugger mugger. The Minister will get a further report from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and make recommendations to Cabinet. Of course, Parliament will know nothing about this. It is all wrapped up in hugger mugger. The Parliament should seek assurances against open ended commitment to bolster up uneconomic producers at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars and the introduction of a guaranteed floor price by stealth. 
There are good arguments for a single wool authority and I shall not dismiss them lightly. They are, first of all, to force objective measurement on the industry; secondly, to maintain export standards; thirdly to centralise handling, and finally to ensure orderly selling. The 'Bradford Wool Record', a very conservative and very well informed paper, the other day had this to say: 
Many wholesale and retail outlets for wool products are quietly passing  into  the ownership or under the influence of manmade fibre  orientated  bodies. 
We will probably find that the trend towards synthetics cannot be reversed in the United States. The only possibility of doing anything in this kind of market is through promotion aimed at the ultimate consumers. 
The big synthetic manufacturers have got in on the top floor among the spinners and the weavers and have moved down so that all that is offered now in the retail shops is artificial fibres. We cannot do much about this now. Western European countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy, are moving in the same direction as the United States - that is to say, the manmade fibre people through their strength, wealth and foresight, unlike the wool industry here, have got in at the top and moved down to the retail store. In Eastern Europe - the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Poland, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia - and also in Egypt, Pakistan and India there is perhaps still a market for wool. It is perhaps the best market that we can hope to get. But how are we going to get into these markets? These are peculiar markets. I refer to the Communist countries, the countries of North Africa and Asia. Here perhaps objective measurement would help, but above all we must have trade agreements and perhaps terms of a year or two to pay are more important than the precise price, not that the price is unimportant. We must try to forestall the slide into synthetics in these markets. 
This, it may be argued with some force, requires a statutory body working closely with the Government. That body should consist of really capable people and here - I hope it will not do him any irreparable harm  -  I want to quote with great approval what the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  said in the House on 27 August. He said: 
I believe that the establishment of an Australian wool marketing authority independent of the Australian Wool Board and under the management of top men chosen because of their proven commercial, technical and financial judgment will result in a new confidence and a higher level of prosperity to this industry.  1 could not agree more. There are many reasons why such an authority might at last retrieve the disasters of the past and catch up on the years that the locusts have eaten. Of course, the generalised reason for a single authority is the fragmented nature of the industry compared with the giants in the manmade fibre world. A wool grower has whatever sheep he may have happened to buy. All the wool from some given district may be shorn at the same time, perhaps because of drought. It comes to the market at the same time and probably depresses the price for that particular type of wool. There is no even flow of it on the market. The brokers are multiplying bulk classing and this, of course, is adding to cost under present conditions. The economics of presentation through the old system of visual appraisal and all the rest of it are obviously uneconomic. Control of marketing is much more important than acquisition of the clip. The Wool Board has concentrated on a reserve price and supply management. This is an error. The other things are more important. 
Let us then have what the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has been urging for a long time - that is, a body comparable to the Tariff Board to preside over the requirements of rural industry. Until this happens and until there is a thorough-going inquiry into the needs of rural industries, including wool, by such a body there can be no confidence that policies that germinate in hugger mugger are going to be right for this country. Certainly if they are not presented not only to the wool growers and the other rural pro ducers but to the public as something just then we shall have no agreement to them. 
My question to the Minister for National Development follow* on the question recently asked by the honourable member for Gwydir. Has the Minister been approached by the Government of New South Wales with a view to the diversion of some of the funds proposed to be provided by the Commonwealth for water conservation and irrigation purposes, other than the Copeton Dam to which we are committed, to treatment and other sewage works designed to cure the pollution of Sydney beaches? Is it a fact that many irrigation projects have resulted in types of production that cannot find remunerative markets, whereas Sydney beaches provide greatly appreciated amenities for between 2 million and 3 million people and a powerful attraction for both tourists and immigrants? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Stale school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will he given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I want to raise 2 matters in the 10 minutes allowed me by our ardent parliamentary reformers. Firstly, I refer to the inquiry to be conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board into the desirability of instituting a frequency modulation system which would make possible more stations and, therefore, a more varied radio diet and would give better and clearer reception. Here I should like to quote the report of an interview on this subject between a representative of the 'Advertising, Marketing and Media Weekly' and the  Chairman  of the Board,  Mr Wright.  It appears on page 12 of the issue dated 3rd September 1970. The article says: 
And on  frequency modulation - FM - Wright pointed to an inquiry coming up. 
A pretty small number of people accepted our invitation to give evidence.'' 
Small interest: The manufacturers, of course, are quite interested, but apart from a group of enthusiasts in addition there has been very little interest exhibited. 'I'm not pre-judging the public interest in this, but when you consider that most people today are listening to  21  inch speakers, the most magnificent  broadcast  .system in the world isn't likely to be improved through speakers of such a size.' 
Anyway, why should people be very interested in FM since they don't know what it's like? That might be the perfect answer.' 
Indeed it could be so. This to my mind clearly suggests that in the opinion of the  Chairman  few members of the public are really interested in FM radio and, therefore, the clear implication is that the system should not be instituted. Briefly, I believe that this statement, if he is accurately reported, indicates that he has pre-judged the issue and, particularly in view of the fact that the Board is at present immersed in the problem of Australian content in television programmes, I suggest that it would be both desirable and convenient if some other fit and proper person were appointed to preside over the FM inquiry. It is clearly the duty of the Board to provide the best system possible irrespective of the fact that few Australians may be aware of the merits of FM broadcasting. 
The second matter that I wish to raise relates to the amount of Australian content in television programmes. Obviously in 5 minutes one cannot deal with this in depth or seek to persuade wilh eloquence. Indeed, one has not time even to make a speech. Let mc make some quick points. Firstly, television for good or evil makes an immense impact on people's minds - adults, young people, children, ignorant or educated. Secondly, the Australian content in television programmes is far less than it should be in the national interest for 2 reasons. Negatively, American films in particular, featuring violence and the aberrations of the affluent society, do little to improve the minds and morals of the Australian people. Positively, they inhibit the development of a distinctively Australian image and identity. 
An entirely derivative culture has no appeal to the best minds. Without deeply felt pride in its values and achievements such a society must be a nonentity among the nations and, indeed, may have little chance of survival. By way of contrast, the Parliamentary Library has given me this  information regarding the position in Britain. The Library says in its information: 
We are advised by the BBC representative in Sydney that there are no fixed quotas setting limits on the amount of foreign programming on either BBC or independent (commercial, i.e.) channels. The representative stated that BBC programmes in 1969 were approximately - 84 per cent British, 9 per cent USA, 7 per cent other. 
The Independent Television Authority has wide supervisory powers over the quality and appropriateness of programmes and advertisements. 
The ITA has issued strong reprimands and warnings to offending channels, and has even rescinded licences and reissued them to other companies. The proportion of British programmes shown on ITV is not as high as that of the BBC, but still considerably more than 50 per cent. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a copy of a letter, dated 13th October 1970, addressed to me from the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  in which he sets out the position in detail regarding Australian content in television. 
Dear  Mr Turner, 
I refer again to your letter of 17th August 1970, concerning representations for increased Australian content in television programmes. 
Your letter is among a wide range of representations which I have received in connection with a review which the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is making of its Australian television programme requirements. The Board has been consulting in the course of its review with a wide range of interests, including station licensees and representatives of Australian creative talent and outer sections of the industry. Many different aspects are involved. 
As I mentioned in reply to a question from you in the House on 18th September, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and myself received on 22nd September 1970, a deputation of SiX people in the field of Australian television production at which they put their case on the matters in question. 
You request information on the existing legislative and administrative provisions on this matter. Under section 16 of the Act, it is a function of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programmes are provided over commercial television stations. Section 114(1) of the Act provides that the Commission and licensees shall, as far as possible, use the services of Australians in the production and presentation of broadcasting and television programmes'. To give practical effect to this principle the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has specified requirements for the Australian content of commercial television programmes to be observed by each licensee. 
Briefly stated, these requirements provide that stations which have completed 3 years of operation shall present for at least 50 per cent of transmission time, programmes which are credited as being Australian in origin; and that during the popular viewing time between 7.00 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. they should present at least 18 hours of Australian programmes each month, including 2 hours of Australian drama. Of the 18 hours of Australian programmes, at least 8 must be televised between 7.00 p.m. and 9.00 p.m. at the rate of 2 hours per week. These general requirements came into effect in July 1967 and are subject to regular review. Arising out of the last review for instance, the requirement to programme 18 hours of Australian programmes between 7.00 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. each month came into effect as from July 1969; previously 12 hours was the stipulated minimum. 
The Board's Australian content requirements provide for special credits for Australian drama in respect of the calculation of stations compliance with the overall obligation to televise Australian programmes for 50 per cent of transmission time. The intention is to encourage this aspect of Australian production. Drama written in Australia or by Australians receives credit for twice its actual duration; other Australian drama productions receive credit for one and one half times their actual duration. 
It is the Board's regular practice to review its requirements for Australian content in commercial television programmes and as I have said, such a review is now being made. 
The Board's requirements relate only to commercial television stations; the Australian Broadcasting Commission is responsible for ensuring that the principles underlying Section 114 of the Act are fulfilled adequately in the programming of national stations. The creditable record of the Commission in this field is well-known. 
You suggest that the proper approach to this matter is 'a full and open inquiry'. I would not wish to prejudge the Board's considerations. The Board is vested with ample authority to deal with matters relating to Australian television programmes in the way it thinks fit, even to the extent of itself holding a public inquiry. I am sure that the Board would not hesitate to adopt this procedure if it were considered to be the best way of proceeding: As it is, the Board has met with all sections of the industry including Actors' and Announcers' Equity Association of Australia, the Australian Writers' Guild, the Producers' and Directors' Guild of Australia, the Australian Film Council, programme producers, the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations and representatives of individual stations. 
I am, therefore, satisfied that its conclusions in what has developed into a complex and emotional area, will be reached against the background of all available information and views. At this stage at least, I am not disposed to think that the problems could be examined and solved in any better way than that being followed by the Board. I should add, in this connection, that all concerned are aware that the Board is available at any itme to receive the presentation of any views which they may have either verbally or in writing and this facility has been freely availed of, as will be evident from the list of organisations, which I have indicated, have discussed the matter with the Board. In addition the Board has received many letters from individual members of the public and due account will be paid to these. 1 would add only this, that the 50 per cent  oi  Australian content is cut down by the credits mentioned in the fourth and fifth paragraphs of the Minister's letter. I will not enter into the controversy whether commercial stations are or are not at this time in a financial position to pay more for Australian material than for cheaper imported programmes. Nor do I base my case on the employment needs of Australian actors. What is of crucial importance is, first, whether the talent exists in Australia - the script writers, producers, technicians and the rest - and, second, whether we have a sufficient depth of indigenous culture to found a distinctively Australian film industry. 1 can only give 2 pragmatic answers. Having seen the preview of 3 half-hour films produced by the Commonwealth Film Unit, 'Michael' Judy' and .T....1 -, presenting the dilemmas of Australian youth in 3 different contexts, I have no doubt whatever that the necessary talents exist, and anyone in doubt should watch for these particular items when they appear shortly on the television screen. 
As to the depth of indigenous culture, I can only say that Australia has, for almost two centuries, had a different kind of background and development from all other countries; that the Australian people have faced their own peculiar problems, struggles and dilemmas; that our story is not without colour and emotional highlights and that Australians are recognisably different from all other people inhabiting the earth. What we need is a mirror not only in art, literature and music but in the most popular and pervasive of media, the film, to engender a sense of national identity and pride and to illuminate our own national ethos. I applaud the decision of the Government to establish the Australian Film Development Corporation and commend to the Postmaster-General the necessity of ensuring that the fruits of this venture reach the television screen in Aus tralia. I believe that the public, properly approached, will be tolerant of initial shortcomings while our script writers, producers, actors and others learn in the on, way it is possible to learn, and that is by doing. Commercially such an enterprise might become viable by exploiting Asian markets, despite language difficulties - I have seen a Russian version of 'Hamlet' with an English sound track substituted for the Russian. This would give some idea to our neighbours of what manner of people we are and what sort of country we inhabit. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs refers to the case of the Australian journalist,  Mr Francis  James. The right honourable gentleman will recall that  2  months ago, on 20th August to be precise, I directed a question to him in this House urging redoubled efforts to discover the whereabouts of this unhappy man and further approaches to the Peking Government with a view to securing his release. Can the Minister say whether any further inquiries have been undertaken and, if so, with what result? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Bradfield respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs. 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views: 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to say a very few words only. The reason is that I. represent people and not cows - and people who are affected by aircraft noise. That is a perfectly, obvious reason. But 1 rise for an even more important reason than this. It appears to me that, in the community at the present time, we suffer time and again from the encroachment of great organisations upon the ordinary rights of simple citizens. This is simply a case in point. I find myself utterly opposed to it, believing as I do that governments and parliaments exist for no other reason than to protect ordinary people. 
Now, I propose to. support the motion before the House - not the amendment - for the reasons given in the report. May I remind honourable members of the relevant paragraphs. The Joint Committee on Public Works in paragraph 47 of its report recommends)   . . because of the time factor, it is obvious that the upgrading of the facilities at Avalon is the only practicable way of satisfactorily providing for Boeing 747 training. We therefore believe that the work in this reference should be carried out without further unnecessary delay. 
In paragraph 52 of its report, the Committee states - and I underline this paragraph heavily: 
As the Department of Civil Aviation has known of the Qantas Boeing 747 programme since 1968, we feel it is necessary to protest yet again at the apparent inability of the Department to do its forward planning effectively and at its apparent indifference to the requirements and possible implications of a Committee investigation. 
May 1 say in passing that if ever a parliamentary committee was justified in overseeing what departments are doing, this Committee is justified, and we should have more of them. 
I make my protest together with the Committee itself at the indifference, the insensitivity and the gross obtuseness whether of the Department of Civil Aviation or of the Minister for Civil Aviation I do not know and I do not care, but the Minister is responsible. We have this problem at Avalon. We certainly have it at Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport, as it affects my electorate. There is only one thing to be done about these existing problems. When mistakes have been made, they have been made and there is nothing much that we can do about them except that we can make some reparation as regards the future. A mistake has been made beyond doubt or question. But it is time that the Minister for Civil Aviation, or his Department, or both, should get busy in relocating airports that ought not to be where they are. This goes for Avalon; it goes for Kingsford-Smith; and possibly it goes for other airports as well - I do not know. But I do know that the Department or the Minister should be taking steps now to ensure that other locations, are settled upon without delay. 
The longer we wait, the more does development go on and the more expensive it becomes, and the longer these people must suffer from this kind of pollution - that is, noise pollution. The Department or the Minister should make it clear forthwith beyond any  doubt or question that steps are openly and plainly being taken to' remedy the defects of the past. This is all that can be done at this stage for the protection of little people, for be it always remembered that, under our system of government, the little people always have a vote. If there are a lot of people, they have a lot of little votes. In the long run, the sins and omissions of Ministers will be visited upon the Parties that they represent. I hope that this little exercise over Avalon will shake the Minister and his officials to their foundations and that they will get on with this work without delay and without any doubt that remedial action is being taken. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Stale school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether he has seen the reports of a symposium on conservation and mining held in Sydney during the weekend, and the desires of that symposium to see a land utilisation authority established on a national basis. I ask him further whether he saw the report of the Australian Mining Industry Council which wants a White Paper approach to the problems of land utilisation in respect of that industry. Has he ever contemplated calling together the relevant State Ministers with a view to hammering out some common approach to these national problems, or would he regard this as a blasphemy against the sacred cow of federalism and an unwarranted interference with the right divine of States to govern wrong? 
lt is, 1 think, well understood,  Mr Speaker,  that you have neither eyes to see nor ears to hear save as this House gives you direction. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has moved a -motion calling upon you to summon some perron to the Bar of the House to give an account of himself as to why he interjected something from the gallery. I have often heard interjections from the gallery - not always complimentary to members of the House - both in this Parliament and in another in which 1 served. The only action I ever saw a  Speaker  take in a case like this was to order that the person who had been disorderly be taken in charge and removed from the gallery for- disorderly conduct. Now we are asked to treat this man seriously and to ask him why he said what he said. 1 believe that this House and the people of this country are' sick to death of the politics of this country being directed by leaks from government departments to pressmen and by gossip of pressmen. They are sick to death pf the politics of this country being run by the Press. If you summon this man here to ask why he said something or other you -are elevating him to a degree of importance he does not deserve. He is a gossiping journalist and should be treated with- contempt and not summoned to the Bar of this House. 
There are 3 observations I should like to make in connection with this matter. First, it is proposed to withdraw the present Bill and to substitute another Bill for it. I would hope that the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  may be able to give some assurance that the substituted Bill will be brought before the House within a reasonable time. By this I mean that 1 hope that it will not be squeezed into the last week of the sittings, perhaps at a late hour of the night. The reason why I ask for such an assurance is that, as I think most honourable members know both from notices that have appeared in the Party rooms and from a notification in their mail if they have had time to read it,  Mr Frank  Channon, who represents a particular point of view in relation to the incorporation of a tomb in the Memorial to contain the remains of an unknown Australian soldier, is to come to Parliament House next Thursday at 3.30 p.m. and in Committee Room No. 2 to give an explanation of his point of view which is supported by the Returned Services League. It would be unfortunate if, when members' minds have been freshly devoted to this matter, the Bill were to be postponed for such a time that they had forgotten what they had heard about the issue. 
The second matter that I wish to raise concerns an assurance from the Leader of the House that the long title of the Bill will be amended in such a way as to make possible the incorporation of an amendment dealing with the matter which  Mr Channon  will be discussing with members on Thursday. Standing order 227 states in part: 
Any amendment may be moved to any part of the Bill, provided the same be within the title or relevant to the subject matter of the Bill. 
The long title of the Bill that is to be withdrawn is: 'To amend section 6 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962-1966'. The standing order I have just quoted limits amendments to amendments to section 6. If when the substituted Bill is brought forward the title is restrictive, for example to amend section 6 and some other section of the Act, then amendments will be limited to those 2 sections and it may be that those 2 sections do not offer the opportunity to me to move an amendment in relation to  Mr Channon's  proposal. I therefore hope that when the substituted Bill is produced in the House it will have a wide long title - for example, simply to amend the Australian War Memorial Act 1962-1966. This will then allow for the kind of amendment that I think should be moved in order that the sense of the House may be tested on this matter which has too long waited for a decision. 
The third and last matter that I wish to raise is this: I should like to appeal to the Leader of the House to decide for himself, if he has the authority to do so, or to seek the opinion of the Government upon this, that this is a matter - I refer to the tomb with which  Mr Channon  . is concerned - that should be the subject of a free vote. The question whether or not the tomb containing the remains of an unknown Australian serviceman should be incorporated in the War Memorial is in no sense a Party matter. It affects the people of Australia as represented by members in this Parliament and in no way can it be considered a matter of Government policy. So I appeal to the Leader : of  the House to decide for himself or to bring to the consideration of the Government the question of making this matter, when raised on an amendment to the Bill ' proposed to be brought into the House, the subject of a free vote.  ' 
Has the Minister for the Interior been able to arrange for a representative of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial to attend a meeting to be held in Parliament House at 3.30 this afternoon to discuss whether there should be incorporated in the Memorial a tomb containing the remains of an unknown Australian serviceman? 
This is a matter which should be dealt with briefly and I shall play my part. The problem has arisen because of the time that has been occupied recently in the presentation of petitions. I do not believe that the time taken up by petitions should be taken out of the time available for questions. With great respect I cannot agree entirely with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when he says that urgency debates, which are now called debates on matters of public importance, and adjournment debates offer the opportunities that are available at question time. In a debate on a matter of public importance speeches usually are limited to 2 or 3 members from each side of the House and it does not follow that the matter dealt with is one which members can deal with at question time when they have complete flexibility. Regarding adjournment debates, I find that it is not common for Ministers, whose departments are involved, always to be in the chamber and to respond; nor even is an assurance given as a rule by the Minister at the table that a matter will be drawn to the attention of a particular department. Therefore, with great respect, I cannot agree with the Prime Minister that these debates afford the same opportunity as questions. 
At the same time 1 believe the flexibility is desirable in this matter and it would be a pity if we fixed a particular time, 45 minutes or whatever it may be. We all know that towards the end of a session the Prime Minister can give an opportunity, by increasing the time beyond 45 minutes, for members to ask questions, knowing that they will not have an opportunity once the House rises. Similarly we are all aware that pressure of business may on occasions make it desirable to curtail question time. We all know that there are also occasions, even if they are rare, when question time tends to peter out. I believe, therefore, that there should be flexibility. The Prime Minister would be unwise if he did not pay regard to the sentiments that have been expressed in the course of this debate. 
I am not prepared to vote with the Opposition on this motion. I believe that practice and tradition are tremendously important in Parliament, far more important than rules. Indeed, most of our troubles arise from the fact that practice and tradition have, in too many fields, been abandoned as, for example, when statements on policy are made outside the House on television or in the Press instead of here, in the right place. I do not want to enlarge upon this, only to say that this is a matter that should be regulated by practice and tradition. The Prime Minister would be wise to pay regard to the sentiments that have been expressed during this debate. I will not vote for the Opposition motion at this point of time but if the Prime Minister does not pay regard to what has been said I shall have to reconsider my position on another occasion. However, I believe he is wise enough and sensible enough to pay regard to what has been said here today. 
I refer to the statement just made by the Minister for Labour and National Service with regard to child minding centres. I ask the Minister whether he will bear in mind the interests not only of industry but also of the children concerned. Has there been established an interdepartmental committee representing the Department of Health, the Department of Social Services and the Department of Education and Science which are all vitally concerned with this matter? Finally, can he conceive of any' need that industry may have for the mother of a child under 3 years of age that would be greater than the need of the child for its mother? 
I ask the Prime Minister' whether, since there has been an apparent detente in the relations of the People's Republic of China with the outside world, it has been possible to obtain any information regarding the missing Australian journalist,  Mr Francis  James. 
My name has been mentioned by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in the course of this debate, and with approval. He made some strange suggestions. I thought he was implying that we should eliminate prayers. I think that prayers are rather necessary. I do not retract anything I said on the previous occasion, but I think that some of the things I said were not quoted. I did point out that the discretion residing in the Prime Minister was a desirable thing to retain because there were occasions when we may need longer time and other occasions when we may need a shorter time for questions. The honourable member for Chifley did not quote that part of what I said. 
My sentiment is entirely with the honourable member for Chifley, but my head will not go along on this occasion with my sentiment. I do. think there is need for this flexibility, but I think that at the end of a sitting, as we are now, with so many Bills before us - too many Bills before us - to prolong question time would be wrong. I think the honourable member for Chifley has to choose his time for this kind of exercise, and I do not think that, when we have so many Bills before us, this is the time when questions should be prolonged. Therefore I will not support him on this occasion. I will continue to extend my tolerance, if I may put it so, to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I think he has acted reasonably on this occasion. I shall of course watch carefully to see whether I believe he acts with reason on other occasions. Now I believe he is right and I am afraid I cannot support, however much my sentiment might lead me to do so, what the honourable member for Chifley has said. 
I do not propose to use extravagant language or to speak at any length. Much has been said already. However, I should be recreant to all that I have said for years if I did not protest against this guillotine. This is not the first time that I have spoken on this matter. I have been consistent for years. 
This is unimportant. For years I have said that this practice has been adopted simply as a means of giving legislative effect to decisions of the Executive. This has not been a deliberative chamber. There has been no participation by Parliament as such in the legislative process. It has been nothing more than a rubber stamp, and this is what I mean by a rubber stamp. There is only one means by which matters become law and that is by passing the legislation through this Parliament. This is the sole function that governments have seen for this House. I am not speaking about only the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the previous  Prime Minister, the Liberal Party of Australia or the Australian Labor Party. It has for years been the attitude of all executives, drawn from whichever side of the House, and all honourable members have acquiesced in this situation. It is of no use for honourable members to complain about this. The Opposition Whip has just said: This is just a case of the guillotine and this is quite different from anything else'. It is no different from anything else. It is all of one piece with what has been happening for . years and which has been acquiesced in by all members of this chamber. If we have been reduced to nothing more than a rubber stamp there is nobody to blame but ourselves. For years I have protested and nobody has taken the slightest notice. But this is not the first time that I happen to have been right. Let us have a look at the position. Seventeen Bills are subject to the guillotine. Here it is nearly dinner time on Tuesday, the House is to get up on Thursday night, and 17 Bills are subject to the guillotine. As has been remarked, the Bills are very different in character - discrete Bills - some of them conferring benefits on various classes of citizens, some of them related to the revenue, and others on large issues such as New Guinea, rural industries and restrictive trade practices. These are all large matters. The others are important to a large number of people. 
Let us look at some of these Bills very briefly. In particular I am concerned about the rural Bills, such as the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill, the Loan (Farmers Debt Adjustment) Bill and the Wool Industry Bill. It is proposed for the first 2 I have mentioned that there should be 4 hours of debate - and, of course, 5 minutes. This means that there would be - With 20 minutes for each honourable member - time for 12 honourable members, say 6 from each side, to speak. I know of 2 or 3 honourable members opposite who are interested in rural affairs, who will wish to speak and who no doubt will speak. When I look at the serried ranks of my rural friends on my right and those on the Liberal benches - knowing that only 6 will be able to speak - I can see how many will not be able to speak. Obviously every rural member must stand up and make some braying noise designed to please his constituents. What time will be left, therefore, for any real debate when they have all made those appropriate noises? 
This is a matter of concern to far more than our rural friends. The first Bill I mentioned makes provision for the spending of $100m in reconstructing rural industries. In World War I there was the first hundred thousand, the Old Contemptibles. But there is nothing contemptible about the first $10Om that is to go into rural relief. It is only the first $100m. Maybe it will become $500m or $ 1,000m, as some people have estimated. This is the beginning of it all. I have scrutinised the Bill a little and I find that it is about as leaky as a colander. We are beginning upon a path of immense importance not only to farmers and their representatives in this place but to all the people of Australia. Our primary and secondary industries will have to be reoriented and restructured. We are embarking upon a debate for which 4 hours to speak will be allowed - enough for 6 honourable members a side. 
The Wool Industry Bill deserves far more than the 2 hours which has been allotted to it. I cannot accept that this is the way the affairs of a deliberative assembly should be run. It is fair enough for a rubber stamp. After all, the Government wants the Bills. It must have legislative approval before it spends money and it wants to spend the money. So the Bills have to be passed by this House and another place and signed by the GovernorGeneral. Do not let anybody pretend that this is a deliberative assembly or that the Parliament as such is participating in any way in the decisions that are being made here - decisions that will be with us for a very long time and whose consequences will reach far into the future. New Guinea is another great matter that has been mentioned. Australia is the last colonial power. Many honourable members on both sides of the House have given a great deal of thought to this subject. New Guinea has entered a new phase in recent times. I have believed for a very long time that the experience of Africa is not entirely alien to what will happen to New Guinea. Once people begin to think about independence it is not long before they demand it and then have it. I have thought this for a long time. But there are others who take a different view. We are the last colonial power and what we. do about New Guinea affects intimately the lives of more than 2 million people and also affects our own future and our standing in the councils of the world. The time allotted to debate this Bill is 30 minutes. I say that this is  a  deplorable way to deal with public affairs. The Parliament is being treated with utter contempt - not for the first time. It has been treated like this time and again, and not only by this Government. It has been the method of government, whichever party was in office. 1 said that I would not speak at length or in extravagant terms. There is no need to do so. I have spoken on these matters time and again, and time and again what I have said has been ignored. Now we have reached this situation. This is a matter of some consequence to our young friends in the Parliament who thought, when they reformed the Standing Orders a little while ago, that because the time for speeches would be limited they would be able to make more speeches. I told them that they would not, and now they know. I mention this, not to say: 'I told you so', but because if I have been right, as I have been on a certain number of occasions in this place - sometimes I have been the only one who was right - I would like the people to pay a little more regard in the future to what have been in the past fruitless protests about the treatment of this place merely as a rubber stamp. 
Indeed you were wrong in your great reforms. I do not want to enter upon that subject now. I merely protest against what is being done. I will not support the motion. 
My question, which I address to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, relates to jumbo jets. Does he know whether the Minister for Civil Aviation has noted a report to the effect that traffic controllers in 
London are concerned at the fact that some jumbo jets have passed check points thousands of feet lower than they should have been? For example, these aircraft passed over Birmingham and London at 12,000 feet when they should have passed at 22,000 feet. Has the Department of Civil Aviation carried out similar tests here? What is the result? Can the Minister ensure that the Minister for Civil Aviation makes a statement to the public which must be apprehensive at this apparent defect? - 
The time for consideration of these Bills is short and I shall be very brief. One must admit immediately - here I agree with the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)-  that the problems of the primary industries are great; indeed immense. Because these problems are complex the answers are not easy to find. There will be some differences of . opinion upon these. Again, one must admit that they present a human and a social problem that requires compassion as well as economic analysis. The problem is an industrial one which affects the whole of the rural industry, and the wool industry in particular. Its ramifications spread far through the countryside and into the city. It is also a national problem of great concern to all of us. It is, as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has made very clear, very much a political problem upon which those who practice politics will pounce with great glee in the hope of deriving some benefit from some line of argument which may be unrelated to the needs of people in primary industries. 
Of course, the wool industry is important from the point of view of foreign exchange, as has been mentioned by more than one  speaker  tonight. If this industry means something like S600m, more or less, then we cannot with equanimity see such an industry disappear from the scene. Foreign exchange, of course, is absolutely vital to us. A dollar of foreign currency may well be worth more than a dollar of Australian money to buy it. It is something which is worth buying and something worth paying for. How much extra we need to pay for that commodity- that is a dollar of foreign exchange - and how we should do this, are problems that I will not attempt to answer in the short time that I have. I merely say that this problem does exist. If one is concerned only with foreign exchange and nothing else - for a moment let us isolate that matter - it also means that we are concerned with those who produce most of the wool. I am confining myself to the wool industry here. As I understand it - the figures may not be accurate but the point is made clear by these simple figures - about 15 per cent of wool growers produce about 75 per cent of the wool in terms of its value in money. So it is those people especially with whom we are concerned if we are thinking only of foreign exchange and the national interest, of course, in foreign exchange. This, of course, is to forget altogether about the human and social aspects of the matter. 
Now, what of the future? No-one can answer this with any certainty at all. But I think that in an age of synthetics, and looking to the trends particularly in the more sophisticated countries in North America and Europe, few will suppose that wool will ever return to the situation that it occupied in the past. Whether the price of wool may be 25c, 30c or 35c a lb noone knows but one can be tolerably certain that the price will not be very much above the topmost limit that I have mentioned. So some have suggested that before doing something that may result in a number of farmers leaving the land - highly skilled people who cannot easily be restored to their former occupation if wool should recover even to some extent - we should have the best kind of survey that we can get made by competent investigators, people skilled in financial and economic analysis. The Government should obtain such a report before it does something that may result in a great shift in the structure of primary industry. I do not believe that we have time to do this. I think the outline is tolerably clear, that is to say, that wool will not return to its former position. It will remain always relatively less important or less viable than it was in the past. Therefore, we should press on with such remedies as may appear reasonable at this time. 
It appears to me that 2 things have to be done. Here I would address myself to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because under Standing Orders I am required to do so. But in addressing myself to you,  Sir, I  hope that the honourable member for Riverina will hear me. I put to you,  Sir, that  not King Canute can hold back the tide. 1 put to you,  Sir, that  those who can be made viable should be assisted to do so. But there are those who canot under any circmstances be made viable, and they cannot remain on the land. It may be,  Sir, that  they wil go through much travail and this country may go through much travail not much assisted in that process by people such as the honourable member for Riverina because he is one who will say: Oh, they should stay on the land at all costs; we will subsidise them and they must stay there'. The burden of subsidisation will become so great that it will break down. Farmers may go through the turmoil of a Labor government which has promised them something that it cannot perform any more than Canute could keep the sea back. So they may go through this process until they learn that the impossible cannot be done. After some years of sorrow they may finally have to face the facts. Anyone who tells them otherwise is not their friend. There is always pain in adapting to a new situation but there is no reason why that pain should be made greater by people who are not concerned with their welfare but with some political advantage. 
These are the things that have to happen. Those who can be helped to become viable must receive that help, and those who cannot must be, not moved from the land, but assisted to move as painlessly as possible because adaption is the law of life. This is why there are no brontosaurus wandering about in the paddocks here. 
They did not adapt themselves. Oh, there is a troglodyte or two over there. There was a change in the climate and they could not adapt; a change of circumstances and they could not adapt. So they are all dead. As I have said, adaption is the law of life. Here we see a great technological change and we cannot resist it. We can make the transition to a different situation easier, or by pretending that it is not there and that there is no need for adaption, we can make it a lot harder and much more painful for the people who in the long run must change, and not the very long run at that. King Canute cannot rule for very long. 
How then is the pain of these people to be eased? That is really the question which those who are concerned from a national, an economic, a social and a compassionate point of view must answer. There may well be those who are of such an age that they cannot change and cannot learn some other skill or go to some other occupation. In that case I think the question of pensions should be considered. I am not suggesting exactly what should be done but I do know, for example, that old soldiers on attaining  60  years of age receive a pension that others do not receive until they are  65.  We may have to consider the question of pensions in respect of those who are too old to move from their present occupation to another. For those who are younger, we must consider the question of retraining. Something has been said about this tonight - that the Government has introduced a scheme of re-training for those who, for technological reasons, can no longer pursue their old occupations in secondary industry. But exactly the same thing applies to those who must move from primary industry to something else. Although the scheme does make some provision for this, I do not remember that anything was said about primary industry at the time it was introduced, surprisingly it seemed to me. I cannot help feeling that it should be made much more a planned scheme, especially geared to the needs of this situation. It is all very well to say that people can go to a technical college of their choice or do something else to receive training but I think that we must gear the scheme specifically for this task and recognise that there is a special problem and make special arrangements for it. 
Then there is the question of resettlement. It may be that some people can go from wool into some other primary industry, but perhaps not many. It may be that most of them will have to go into secondary industries. Where are they to settle? Are they to stay on the fringes of the great cities - on the fringes of Melbourne, Sydney and so forth? It seems to me that here is a first class opportunity to do something about real decentralisation of population. For years we have been toying with this, because the only schemes that were put forward were economically impossible, unviable. They meant scattering handfuls of people around the countryside and everybody who has made even the most cursory study of this matter is well aware that small communities of this kind are simply not economically viable. Indeed, this fact has been made perfectly clear by the recent research of, I think, a  Dr Patterson  in Victoria. This, of course, was well known, but it has now been made quite explicit. Here is an opportunity to do something about this so that country people who have to leave the land will not be forced on to the fringes of the great cities which themselves have become very unpleasant places in which to live. 
Some panaceas have been proposed. The Opposition obviously has an inclination to keep on the land people who ought not to be there. I know that the terms of the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who lead for the Opposition in this debate seem restrictive and have been so represented, but at heart I believe that to win votes the Australian Labor Party would try to keep people on the land who ought not to be there. I am sure that that would be the attitude of the honourable member for Riverina.  (Mr Grassby).  But to do this is no kindness to people. It is no solution; it is simply putting off the time of adaptation which cannot be postponed indefinitely. Therefore, it is no answer to this problem. 
We have had suggestions made about price support but I think that we would have to be very chary of this. We have seen this in other rural industries and its consequences have been, in some cases, quite disastrous and in no cases very successful. Then again, it has been suggested by some that wool is a splendid fibre and if we could exercise some monopoly power in its distribution we should be able to jack up the price. There has even been some talk that our Wool Commission, in conjunction with similar bodies in other wool producing countries such as South Africa and New Zealand could, as it were, hold the buyers to ransom. But wool has not a monopoly. There may be only one thing that is called wool, but there are many other artificial fibres that will very well serve the purpose of wool. Wool does not have a monopoly and we cannot use monopoly power in this way. Any attempt to use the Wool Commission or to enter into some arrangement with other wool producing countries would be doomed to disaster. In such circumstances I believe there would be a great changeover on the part of manufacturers of fabrics to artificial fibres. 
I have spoken longer than I intended to speak but I should like to say a few words on the Bill. I regret that the administration, is to be carried out in collaboration with the States. I believe that only one State, New South Wales, has an organisation in being that can do this kind of thing. Too many concessions have been made to the States for too few advantages in return. I believe that if it had been proposed to administer this scheme through the Commonwealth Development Bank and perhaps acquire the services of some of the skilled people in New South Wales, this would have kept the matter entirely under the control of the Commonwealth and we could have had much more uniformity in administration and much more control over the rather vague kinds of criteria that have been laid down. Perhaps I can give an example here. In the Schedule, which includes the proposed agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, we find that the purpose is threefold - to provide for debt reconstruction, for farm build-up and for rehabilitation. Paragraph 6 of the Schedule states:  the financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth under this agreement shall be allocated between the forms of assistance under the Scheme as the State considers appropriate . . . 
That is, as between those 3 forms of assistance, the allocation shall be as the States consider appropriate with a certain exception in respect of one of the things, namely, farm build-up. Why should this be different in one State from another? I merely say that, because administration has been handed to the States, we will get all kinds of anomalies in the way this scheme is administered. Then again, we find this kind of vagueness: Paragraph 10 of the Schedule states: 
The provisions of the Schedule to this agreement may be amended from time to time by agreements between the Ministers of the Commonwealth and of the States for the time being responsible for the administration of the scheme. 
Although the Parliament will have approved of the Schedule, which is the form of the agreement, Ministers can alter it at any time, presumably without any reference to the Parliament. So really, we are almost wasting our time. This is just a form that may be followed or altered at will by the Ministers concerned. I believe that it would have been better had the administration come completely under the control of the Commonwealth and the States had not been involved in it at all. 
Finally, there is the question of reports. Because pf this vagueness, how shall the Parliament know, how shall the public know, whether the purposes of the scheme are being carried into effect - that is to say, whether those who are viable are being helped and only those who are viable and whether those who are not viable are not being helped to stay on the land at public expense to no advantage in the end because, in the end, they shall have to leave? How are we to know this? I see no provision for reports which would enable us to determine this. Indeed, I should have liked to move- but I gathered from something that the Minister said earlier that he would not have accepted it - that the State authorities responsible for the administration of the scheme should provide to the State governments detailed reports ot assistance provided, with notes on the economic viability of each farmer assisted, and that these reports should be forwarded to the Commonwealth Government for presentation to this House each financial year. It is only by the tabling of such reports, so that they are public property, available not only to members of the House but also to members of the public and particularly to those economists and people in universities who have special expertise in these matters, that samples can be examined and some conclusion can be reached as to whether the purposes of the scheme are really being carried out or whether people are being left on the land and assisted to remain on the land, through State administration, who ought to be taken off it. 
I would like to say finally that it may well be true that the amount of money to be provided under this scheme will not be sufficient and that more is needed. I want to say at once that I am not one who feels parsimonious in this matter at all. I recognise with compassion that the change to a different way of life is something that must affect all our hearts and minds. I would not be niggardly and those people who have to change should be treated generously and with true compassion. If there is not enough money under r.his scheme more should be made available. We should do the two things I have said, the two things that stand out to be done and will happen anyhow over a period of time whatever you do and however you try to hold back the tide. We should do these things so as to cause as little pain as inevitably there must be in this change. 
If you are to play politics, tell all of them that they can stay on the land, that they will be wanted there, that the prize of wool will go up, that you can use a monopoly power, that you can provide suosidies and that sort of thing and they can continue with the kind of life to which they are accustomed. If you want to be unkind tell them all those things but if you are to be realistic and kind and save them unnecessary pain tell them the truth and help them to make that adaptation which inevitably must be forced upon them in the fullness of time and not a great length of time at that. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.51) - The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said that the Australian Labor Party wants to keep people on the land who should not be there. He attacked the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  by falsifying his arguments. The honourable member for Riverina did not say that no-one should go off the land. He submitted that the great majority should stay.  His  job for 7 years was to bring to the farmers information and improved techniques. The honourable member's job here is to expose the Government and the Government's apathy and incompetence. In my opinion he does both. But the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  has indicated the thinking of the LiberalCountry Party coalition on the problems of rural industry. The honourable member for Moore went to a lot of trouble to prove that the new Labor Government in Western Australia has not solved in 6 weeks the problems of the rural industry which had been built up by the previous Government in that State over a period of 14 years. Of course it should be obvious to anyone that these problems cannot be solved overnight, and this is where this Government is so much at fault. 
This Government should have produced many years ago a plan for reconstruction of the rural industry. But on a second thought it may be that it is just as well this never happened because if a plan had been produced and it was no better than the one now under discussion we would not be any better off in another 20 years. I believe that it is impossible to judge the merits or failings of this Bill without giving some consideration to the emergency financal assistance scheme for the wool industry. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  must have been thinking along these lines because in his second reading speech he said: 
Receipts of the wool industry fell by nearly $100m : in 1968-69 and 1969-70, giving rise to the necessity for the emergency financial assistance scheme for wool growers introduced late in 1970. This was intended as a short term measure which was recognised would help only a proportion of the cases of financial hardship caused by the fall in prices. 
No doubt everyone will agree that there was a necessity for emergency financial asistance, and this scheme did help only a small proportion of the cases of financial hardship caused by the fall in wool prices. As a matter of fact, many honourable members whose electorate covers the wool growing areas would know that the wrong people benefited by the scheme, and some morally most entitled and financially most in need of assistance missed out altogether. Although one must admit that the Minister and his office were trying to do something for these cases, the emergency Bill did have many shortcomings and wool growers whose only sin was to try to provide for the future by following accepted farm practices of keeping costs down by producing more wool, and who borrowed money to restock, received an increase in wool sales but an overall greater financial loss for the year. The whole operation was one that could not be avoided if these graziers wished to carry on in future years, and yet it eliminated them from assistance at the time when they required it most. 
I mention these things because I believe that the emergency Bill was introduced on a take it or leave it basis and this Bill we have before us today is being introduced in the same manner. When the emergency Bill was introduced we were told that it was necessary to get some help to wool growers quickly, and everyone was aware that the country towns badly needed a financial injection. For these reasons there was some justification for the introduction of the emergency assistance, particularly when this great promise of $100m rural assistance was just around the corner. The hard pressed wool growers were led to expect something much more than the assistance received under the emergency scheme, but it is quite obvious that many have been let down and left in the same hopeless financial position as they were in before the introduction of emergency relief. The Minister states that 'the rural reconstruction scheme provides for assistance by way of debt reconstruction, farm build-up and rehabilitation of those obliged to leave the industry when this is necessary to alleviate conditions of personal hardship'. 
It is all very nicely put but it all boils down to the fact that it is a scheme of farm adjustment policies directed at low income farms by a system of farm amalgamation schemes plus a hint that measures may be taken to ease the movement of low income farmers out of the industry. But the Bill itself gives no guidelines of what may be termed a low income farm, but it is noticeable that it does mention that the survey by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in 1966-67 indicated that some 20 per cent of wool growers in Australia had net farm incomes of less than $2,000 per annum. It may be this is some indication of Government thinking on this point. To my mind it is not important whether $2,000 or some rather lower or higher figure is the appropriate point to distinguish low from adequate income earners. The most important thing is that a substantial proportion of Australian farmers appear to be earning incomes too low to give them a chance of financing further investment necessary to enable them to maintain parity with the rest of the community. It is not sufficient that they maintain their present income levels. Inevitably if they cannot increase them they will become uneconomic income farms. In my opinion it is not enough for the Minister to say that this Bill does not represent a policy of 'get big or get out' or a policy of forcing people off the land, unless he clearly lays down the guidelines of a scheme that will improve the position of the small farmer and help him to stay on the land or give him some chance to stay on the land. 
It appears to me that this Bill was not designed to assist the smaller farmer! ft will benefit mainly the larger commercial farmer. At the same time the low income farmer can do little about the low income problem other than leave the industry, wilh a significant capital loss and often illequipped to earn income to house and provide for his family. This, of course, raises consideration of the last portion of this Bill -Part IV, Rehabilitation - the purpose of which is: 
To provide limited assistance to those obliged to leave the industry where in the opinion of the Authority administering the scheme this is necessary to alleviate conditions of personal hardship. 
In my opinion, this is the cruelest part of the Bill, which provides for $100m assistance. Here we have the section most affected by conditions in rural industry. Because of circumstances beyond their control, plus the very function of this Bill, they have become redundant. What is the great assistance these people are to receive? Many of them are farmers who have already had to wait years too long for some action from the Government. 
At the discretion of the Authority administering the scheme they may receive a loan up to a maximum of $1,000. What an insult to these people. It is easy to see whom the Government had in mind when drawing up this scheme. No-one can give an answer on the percentage of wool growers who will become redundant when this scheme is operating, but some opinions vary from 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the present wool growers. If we include the share farmer, this figure would be much higher, but in many cases the share farmer has already become redundant. After spending many hard working years in this industry he has already packed up and left, with great financial loss. So also have many of the farmers. This gives some indication of the thinking of the Government on how the rural problem should be solved! - at the expense of those unable to- carry on and those who have become redundant in the industry. We have been told how greatly our country has depended on our wool industry for foreign exchange. It has been said that we have been riding on the sheep's back. Whichever way one likes to describe it, the fact is that Australia owes a great deal to the wool grower. Is this his reward when he has met hard times and is down on his knees and when he has become redundant? 
Why are these people - good hardworking Australians - treated like second rate citizens? Why are they offered such an insulting redundancy or severance scheme? Redundancy schemes or severance schemes are recognised all over the world and they are part and parcel of many agreements in this country. If any trade unionist were to accept a severance scheme such as the ona in this Bill he would be tarred and feathered by the rank and file. No self respecting member of this Parliament should accept such an insult as this severance scheme for the wool growers. In the 'Maritime Workers Journal' we see that 120 redundant wharf labourers are to receive $400,000 redundancy payment. I am told that this represents several years on full wages. When the east-west rail service took over the section of the Silverton tramway line the employees received 12 months pay as they became redundant. Many of them did not miss a day's work; nor did they have to move out of their homes. 
The Broken Hill mine workers have a clause in their agreement which provides for $100 a year after the first year of service, up to a maximum of $2,500, plus fares for the family to a new area and other assistance should they be unable to sell their homes. These are straight out payments, but the workers also can obtain housing loans to settle in new areas. I know something about these schemes because I was at the negotiating table when they were drawn up. The Government has not provided the leadership required to establish a unity of purpose in the rural community, but we all know that it has done a better job with the overseas mining companies who have the best of our mineral resources. It has done a better job among the big manufacturers. The only excuse I have heard is that the Government was waiting for the industry to tell it what it should do. All I can say is that, it this Bill represents what the Government thinks the wool industry wants, then it has been talking to different farmers from the ones I meet and it must mix with different people from the groups from whom 1 receive correspondence. Today I have received a letter from the Lachlan Shire Council, which reads as follows: 
At the meeting of the Council held on 28th April 1971 it was resolved that representations be made to the Minister for Primary Industry that to enable the rural industry to be viable and progressive, provision be written into the Rural Reconstruction legislation now before the House, for the establishment of rural loans over a term of SO years at reasonable rates to rural producers, for the purpose of land purchases and development and to establish rural industries. 
Of course the rural producers need long term loans. This is what the industry is asking for. I say to honourable members on the Government side, who claim falsely that Labor members do not represent the majority of primary producers in their electorates, that unless they do something to provide such things as long term loans and unless they raise their voices against the insulting severance offer they are out of contact with primary industry and out of touch with the needs of the primary producer. I know that some honourable members opposite think that they have more in common with rural industry than have Opposition members, because they return to work on their farms occasionally; but how can they get so out of touch with rural industry? I think that they are very foolish to remind anyone of these matters, because they are the very ones that put them out of touch with the majority of primary producers. 
If the primary producers in my electorate were to have a parliamentary salary injected into their annual income they would not be so concerned about the hopeless Bill that is before the House tonight. The Government has not provided the leadership required to establish unity of purpose in the rural community, and claims about the number of primary producers that an honourable member represents will do nothing to establish unity of purpose; nor will it do anything to solve the primary producers' problems. I agree with the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  when he says that we should put politics aside and try to produce an effective rural reconstruction scheme. In my opinion, the best way to do that is to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he has received representions seeking more equitable postal rates for periodicals restricted to what is known as controlled circulation. Has he been able to examine this matter, and is he in a position to indicate any conclusions? 

 - Mr Speaker, on 19th February of this year I received a letter from a department of the Church of Christ regarding the granting of a liquor licence to a hotel at Nhulunbuy, the new mining town on the Gove Peninsula. On 26th February I wrote to the then Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  seeking information regarding the Government's attitude on this matter. On 11th March the Minister acknowledged my letter but I have heard no more and this is the last opportunity that I have of seeking some information on this matter. A few days ago I advised the present Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  that I would be seeking information and he is now in the House. 
After 1 received this letter from the Church of Christ people a young constituent of mine who was recently admitted to practise as a solicitor in Sydney, undertook, before entering upon his profession, a journey of 18,000 miles around Australia by road. He took a particular interest in developmental works, including mining works in Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia. This young man is a very fine type of young man - in fact, the very best type of young Australian. He was Head Prefect of a well-known school in Sydney. He has taken some part in public affairs and is a very level and well balanced young man. I cannot commend him too highly.  Sir, he  wished to go to Nhulunbuy but could not arrange it. I will tell you a little more about this in a moment. However, he was in Darwin at the time that the application, by a syndicate known as Walkabout Hotels-Motels, for a hotel at Nhulunbuy was heard before the licencing court. 
Missionaries and elders of the local tribes opposed the granting of the licence on the ground that it would be in the worst possible interests of the Aboriginals in the vicinity. I should say,  Sir, that  alcohol is banned from native reserves unless there is a special dispensation by the Social Welfare Department in the Northern Territory. Nhulunbuy has been exempted from this requirement although, of course, it is in the midst of the Arnhem Land reserve. However, there is a wet canteen on the mine site for the mine workers. Opponents of the granting of the licence expressed no opposition to a club licence for the mine workers, including the Aboriginals working on the mine. 
Firstly, the applicants claimed that the hotel would be a considerable distance from the native village which I believe - but am not sure - was about 20 miles away. Secondly, they claimed that a hotel would be necessary and desirable for the increasing tourist traffic. The opponents claimed that natives had been known to go even 30 miles in order to get liquor - even outside the reserve. At no mining operation visited by my young constituent was encouragement given to visitors to the mine. The mine authorities were much more concerned with getting on with the mining work. Nhulunbuy is about 400 miles by road from Darwin. When my young constituent said that he wished to visit it, he was told that he could go by air but that the mining people ga ve no assistance to anybody arriving at the airstrip to get to the township. So much for the great increase in tourist traffic to the area. 
The magistrate decided to grant the licence, subject to adequate police arrangements. The time was arriving, he said, when such a community could not avoid being exposed to more and various aspects of 20th century life. Aboriginals in this particular area are living in more or less tribal conditions. They are not on the fringes of the 20th century. Evidence was immediately given by the police that additional accommodation was under way for IS policemen. At the settlements associated with Mount Newman and Mount Tom Price - comparable places, so far as my constituent could see - 2 policemen were regarded as sufficient. The Department of Social Services did not appear to be represented at the hearing and the position of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs in this matter appears to me to be completely obscure. I do not know what part he was supposed to play or what is the demarcation between the Minister for the Interior and the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, but I have reached the conclusion that the matter is one entirely for the Minister for the Interior. 
These are the observations of a very level-headed, intelligent young man, who is without any bee in his bonnet and without any axe to grind whatsoever. It may be that in some details he was mistaken, but I think it would be only in very small details. On the face of it a great wrong appears to have been done. What explanation has the Government to offer for the action that was taken here in granting the licence against the unanimous evidence of the missionaries and the Aboriginal leaders in this area? The granting of the licence is an exceptional thing in every respect. It would appear that the reasons given included such things as tourist traffic and the fact that the native village was said to be a long way away - a mere 20 miles at the most. These do not appear to be satisfactory reasons. No blame, of course, attaches to the present Minister because this happened before he took over his portfolio, but, of course, he has to answer for what has been done. If this action cannot be justified I suggest that the licence should be revoked and compensation paid, of course, for any expenditure incurred in pursuance of the granting of a licence that should never have been made. I do not believe that merely because something had been done it' should continue forever. An error should be rectified. 
Finally, so that honourable members may have the opportunity of judging for themselves I ask that the transcript of the evidence in this case be laid on the table as soon as possible. My young friend sought the transcript of the evidence but was informed that it would cost him $50, which he was not in a position to pay. But I suggest that so that we in this Parliament may reach our own opinion and make our own judgment the transcript should be laid on the table. I merely state something that was given to me in all good faith. After 1 received the letter from the Church of Christ people, I had a means of verifying as far as I could from very reliable evidence what they said. I have presented that evidence to the House. I believe it to be true. It may be doubtful in some minor particulars because, as good an observer as he was, he was merely an observer in the court. I do think that the Government has a case to answer and must tell us why it adopted the position it did in regard to the issue of this licence. 
My question is: addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of recent events bearingon Australia's relations . with the People's Republic of China, can the Minister say whether an opportunity will be provided during the current session for members to debate this matter? 
I have a meagre 15 minutes in which to speak. I must deal briefly with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  before going on to more important matters. With regard to the quotation from  Mr Walter  Crocker, I would say that I have the highest regard for that distinguished gentleman, and indeed there is no difference between the 2 sides of this House in an approach to the normalising of diplomatic relations with Peking. But to suggest that  Mr Walter  Crocker would support all the things that the Leader of the Opposition has done in this matter would be to suggest something that is entirely false. 
I would like to say something about the recent visit of the Leader of the Opposition to China. He said very little about it in his rambling commentary, his essay in foreign affairs,' although of course it is always entertaining and interesting to hear the report of Marco Polo on his return from the Celestial Court. 
I believe that this visit to China was conceived in sin. I believe that the purpose of it was to win certain seats where wheat growing interests are paramount in this country. The presence of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in the Australian Labor Party delegation that visited China supports what I say about the purpose of the visit - that it was conceived in sin. lt was carried out with total disregard for the principle of a united national front vis-a-vis the outside world. British Leaders of the Opposition have been to Moscow, but they have always supported the position of the United Kingdom Government. Every member of this House knows that when he goes to the United Nations as a delegate he does not speak for his party. He is bound by the policy of the Australian Government. This is a principle that has been followed in more sophisticated countries than apparently this country is. 
In going to China, the Leader of the Opposition might more usefully have explained the fears that China's neighbours have of her aggressive words and actions. I refer to wars of national liberation round her borders and I could specify them. It would have been more useful if the Leader of the Opposition had explained in Peking that China's neighbours have some good reasons for their suspicions. Instead of agreeing with everything that  Mr Chou  En-lai had to say, he might have had some regard for the objectives of our allies and in particular for  President  Nixon in his bargaining with Peking in his forecast visit to China. The Leader of the Opposition already has bargained away Taiwan. Perhaps we should all begin to learn the Chinese way of pronouncing 'Taiwan'. Now it may be that Taiwan will be lost, but the 
Leader of the Opposition has given it away already. Is this the way in which any responsible person deals with a foreign government? Does one give away in advance everything that one may be able to save in the course of bargaining? 
I wish to refer in a little more detail to the- visit to Peking by the honourable gentleman. He has been singularly reticent about it. Let me recall to him some of the words that he used. He said: 
We have been impressed . . . that you've resolutely followed the policy of having no troops outside your own country. 
Let us look at that statement. Have we never heard of the wars of national liberation in South Vietnam and Thailand and the attempted coup in Indonesia? Oh, yes, it is true that they have not had regular troops outside their borders except in circumstances which might be justified; but nobody can deny that the Chinese have fought by proxy outside their borders. But the honourable gentleman said: 
We have been impressed . . . that you've resolutely followed the policy of having no troops outside your own country. 
This is a lie. He went on to say: 
In particular, we are impressed by the principle that you do not seek to dominate any, country to which you extend aid. 
Let us look in this regard at Africa: Burundi, Dahomey, Upper Volta, the Central African Republic and Ghana which expelled Chinese who were fermenting insurgency in that country. The  President  of Niger charged China with plotting and financing an unsuccessful revolt against his government. But the Leader of the Opposition stated: 
In particular, we were impressed by the principle that you do not seek to dominate any country to which you extend aid. 
We have all heard of a place called Indonesia, too. The Leader of the Opposition went on to discuss Australia's SEATO allies. He said: 
Of the other members, the Philippines and Thailand arc trying desperately to insinuate themselves into your Government's good graces. 
Insinuate' - a splendid word! It precisely describes what the honourable gentleman was doing. If the insinuation is being done, he has mentioned that if he were in government, he would insinuate - and I repeat the word, insinuate - himself into the good graces of that country. Australia then is  to  be one of those countries that insinuate themselves into the good graces of the Government of Peking. 
Following  Mr Chou  En-lai's attack on Japan and the United States of America, the Leader of the Opposition said: 
This is a very powerful indictment of the AmericanJapanese policy. None of us has any doubt about the seriousness of these fears towards reviving Japanese militarism. 
Can honourable members imagine any better way of reviving Japanese militarism than by fomenting, pouring oil on the flames of Chinese hostility to Japan? This is the very thing that he complains about. Then, when  Mr Chou  denounced *he Soviet Union for terminating the Sino-Soviet friendship treaty, the Leader of the Opposition said: 
This sudden termination of that time was abominable. 
In the alignment of forces in the world today, is it well that we insult Russia? We are trying to sell wool to the Russians just as the Leader of the Opposition was in China to sell wheat to that country. But the Leader of the Opposition insults the Russians. In the change of forces today, if I may say so, this is a rather stupid thing to do. The Leader of the Opposition goes on: 
The American people have broken with Lyndon Baines Johnson and if Richard Milhous Nixon does not continue to withdraw his forces they will destroy him similarly. The Australian people have had a bitter experience in going all the way with LBJ. They know America made him change his policy and they will never again allow the American  President  to send troops to another country. 

 Mr Chou said: l have similar sentiments with you. Such a very good appraisal of the American people. 
Now, 'All the way with LBJ' - I have heard that incautious phrase before. Are we now to substitute another phrase for it? Let us all remember this: No longer 'All the way with LBJ', but 'Let's all kowtow to Chairman Mao'. This is the new slogan of the Australian Labor Party. It is a great difference. 'Let's all kowtow to Chairman Mao'. Let us remember it. The time will come when that phrase, I think, may become commonly known and well remembered - just as well remembered as All the way the LBJ'. 
Then,  Mr Chou  referred to Sihanouk. He said: 
He is a very fine man. 
The Leader of the Opposition stated: 
Yes, he is. And it is tragic for his people . . . and so on. I will give one final quotation because the honourable gentleman has not referred to this interview at the Celestial Court The transcript of the dialogue reads: 

 Mr CHOU: What is past is past and we look forward to when you can take office and put into effect your promises. 
Or: When you can insinuate yourself into our good graces. The transcript continues: 

 Mr WHITLAM: If my party wins the elections you will be able to see the first visit by an Australian Prime Minister to the Chinese People's Republic and its sole capital, Peking. 

 Mr CHOU: We will welcome it 
These are private notes. 
I said that I did not wish to spend too much time on the Leader of the Opposition and I have finished with him. Let us get on to more important matters. The Leader of the Opposition has failed even in his trade objective. We are going to hear about this from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who will speak next. He failed because he has politicised our trade relations. Honourable members opposite have talked about tabling a document. At the end of my speech I may ask for leave of the House to table a document from the Parliamentary Library setting out quite factually what has happened to the trade of those countries that have or have not had diplomatic relations with China. As honourable members opposite are so anxious to have documents tabled, I shall seek leave at the end of my speech to table this document. It is entirely factual. The Leader of the Opposition has failed in his trade objective because now he has politicised trade in a way in which it has not been politicised before and now the Chinese cannot trade with us without going back on what they have told the honourable gentleman who is about to speak and the Leader of the Opposition. But trade is not all. As I said, this visit was conceived in sin for the purposes of domestic politics. It was bom in iniquity by the betrayal of all of our national interests in Peking and it was nurtured in folly because he made Australia contemptible in the eyes of the world, like a performing monkey in Peking, for the purposes of Chou En-lai, not for the purposes of Australia. 
There is one great lesson which springs from this visit. 
What- about his being a performing monkey? Yes, I withdraw it. The great lesson that is to be derived from this visit - and it is a tremendous lesson for us to digest - is a matter that was pointed out by some honourable members in this place some time ago. When a country like ours trades with a Communist country, the government of that Communist country has complete power to turn on trade or to turn it off like a tap. This makes our people completely subservient - vassals, if you like - of Communist countries. This is the result. The Chinese will say: 'If you want us to buy your wheat, you must recognise us', or: If you want us to buy your wool, you must cut off your relationship with the United States'. The list of those demands that could be made by a country whose government can turn trade on or off like a tap is endless. This is a great lesson that we have to learn in our relations with any Communist power. 
My time is limited. I had hoped to say more, but I have only 15 minutes. However, I want to say that we now have to reappraise our relations, not only with China but also with other countries. The year 1971 is a climatic year for us. It is as important as, say, 1066 was to England, or 1688 or 1815, or as important as 1776 was for the Americans. It is a turning point in our history. This is the year in which Great Britain will turn her back upon the Empire and her face towards Europe. This is the year when the Americans are calling the legions home. This is the year, 1971, when Australia is left alone. We have to reappraise our relationship with all of these countries - with Britain, the United States of America and the other emerging powers in our area. 1 do not have time to go into this matter. Unfortunately the Young Turks have cut 5 minutes off the inadequate time we used to have in debates of this kind. Well, splendid for the Young Turks. I cannot say what I would like to say on this occasion. Perhaps I shall never get an opportunity. However, I would like to say that we have witnessed the emergence of Russia as a world power, a sea power which has projected itself into the Indian Ocean. We have witnessed the emergence of Japan as an economic super power. She is our best market. Yet she can suffer from latent chauvinism. Has Japan been rebuffed by the United States of America? The detente between China and the United State may be regarded by Japan as a rebuff. It may be that the blockage of trade opportunities in the United States will also be treated as a rebuff. So we face a nightmare. Japan may either go in with China in an economic entente, despite words, or she may go in with the Soviet Union. We just do not know. I have not the time to deal with these matters. 
We must re-assess our position with regard to Great Britain, the United States, China, Japan and the Soviet Union. In regard to China, there is no disagreement that the Australian Government should seek to normalise diplomatic relations, but that falls a long way short of the sort of vassalage that the Leader of the Opposition has been presenting to this House, and the cautious approach of the Government to this matter, I believe, is to be commended. 
I ask for leave to table a paper that I referred to during the course of my speech. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is  271  per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act  1935-1967).  Also that there is customs duty of up to  471  per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
There is a matter still to be resolved. Item 39 on the notice paper is Assistant Ministers - Appointment - Ministerial Statement - Motion to Take Note of Paper'. That debate has not yet occurred. On the other hand, I understand that there have been statements in the Press, which of course has taken over the role of Parliament these days, that Assistant Ministers are to be sworn in this afternoon. I do not believe that these Assistant Ministers should be sworn in until Parliament has had an opportunity, in terms of this motion on the notice paper, to discuss the whole matter. Surely it is essential that Parliament should know precisely what the constitutional position is, what kinds of alterations should be made to the Standing Orders and, above all, what are to be the functions of the Assistant Ministers. I have no wish that we should proceed with a debate on this matter immediately, suspending the Standing Orders for the purpose, if I can have an assurance from the Leader of the Government  (Mr Swartz)  that these people will not be sworn in until Parliament has had an opportunity to debate this motion. 
This is my simple point: I do not want to be forced into the position of voting for the suspension of Standing Orders simply because no assurance is given that these people will not be sworn in until the Parliament has had an opportunity to debate the matter. I speak from an entirely objective point of view. Assistant Ministers, if we are to have them, obviously should be young men with a prospect at some stage of going into the Ministry, this being a kind of apprenticeship. At my age, clearly I have no interest in this matter personally. I speak only because I believe that Parliament should fully discuss this whole question in the light of what the Government can say about the need for these people, their functions, how they can be integrated into the system having regard to constitutional difficulties and so on. When these matters have been cleared by debate I would be happy for appointments to be made, if the House is in favour of this being done, but not that they should be sworn in this afternoon and the debate come on perhaps by Christmas time. I do not think that this is the way that things ought to be done in a Parliament that takes itself seriously. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has had his attention drawn to a telegram from  Mr Raymond  Cournoyer  leader of the Oxfam Relief Organisation in Bengal, to the effect that 200,000 refugee children between 1 and 5 years of age are in danger of death through malnutrition within the next 10 days, that half may be saved but at least 100,000 will die anyway, and that elderly people are also suffering. The telegram indicates also that the Indian Government diet is short of protein and vitamin A. 1 ask the Minister whether he has seen this telegram and whether he has brought the matter to the notice of the Government. If not, will he do so urgently. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of . . . electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare- chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer and it relates to sewers. The honourable gentleman will be aware that he, like his predecessors in office, has extended his benevolence by way of income tax concessions to those householders whose premises are sewered by pipes provided by local authorities but  not to those who have the misfortune of having to pay contractors employed by local authorities for what are termed tanker services. Is the Treasurer aware that this provision imposes a very substantial financial burden upon tens of thousands of young people in outer suburban areas, particularly in parts of Sydney where rocky soil is not amenable to the construction of septic tanks? Would the honourable gentleman give a philosophical disquisition on trie, nice distinction between those meritorious citizens whose premises are sewered by pipes and those unworthy citizens whose homes are serviced by tankers? 
In this the second, reading debate on the Appropriation Bills honourable members may devote themselves to whatever matters they think to be important and in the Committee stage of the Bill, when each department is taken in turn, they may then have the opportunity of dealing with matters relevant particularly to the policies of those departments. What I plan to do is to take a very quick look at the principal issues confronting Australia today in a totally novel situation, particularly in the field of our foreign relations and defence arrangements and in regard to some of our more pressing domestic problems. I shall then deal, I hope, with the basic political problem that we have at this time in arriving at policies and promulgating them to the people, and giving the leadership thai they now need. Finally, I shall deal with particular matters relating to the various departments in the Committee stage of the Bill in a week or so. 
So far as the situation in regard to our foreign affairs and defence is concerned I would point out that this is a novel situation in 1971 that we have never faced before, where our great and powerful friends are in the process of departing from our area. The British have turned their backs upon empire and their faces towards Europe. The Americans are recalling their legions from the mainland of Asia. There is also an enormous change in the balance of world power. China has recovered from the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution. The Chinese have achieved national unity and industrial strength and their diplomatic initiatives have spread throughout Asia, Europe and Africa. So far as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is concerned, she has made her presence felt in the Mediterranean and in the Mediterranean littoral, in the Middle East and now in India, and she has moved into the Indian Ocean and into South East Asia. As to Japan, the future of her alliance with America is now to some extent in doubt. Her relations with China, the USSR and the countries of South East Asia are in the melting pot. We do not know what they may be. She may or may not become a military power to match her enormous economic strength that now rivals that of the other super powers. We have a particular special relationship with her in regard to her procurement of raw materials. It is perfectly plain, therefore, that we face a novel situation in our part of the world. 
What should we do? First of all, I should like to distinguish between foreign policy and defence policy. Foreign policy is optimistic. It seeks to avoid hostilities and to arrive at accommodations with other countries. It is an optimistic policy but a defence policy is a pessimistic policy. It begins on the assumption that you have not been able, by diplomatic and other means, to avoid hostilities and you are now faced with the worst situation. So far as our foreign relations are concerned, we should obviously cling to our old friends, the United States and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom may indeed be strengthened by her association with Europe and this combination may be another force in the world in the course of time. But we must be well aware of the fact that neither the United States nor the 
United Kingdom and the nebulous addition of Europe can be regarded as the towers of strength that they may have been in the past. 
We must, of course, establish diplomatic relations with the nations of our area, including the People's Republic of China, if this is possible. We must diversify our, trade as far as possible so that we may not be subject to blackmail by trading partners as was evidenced so clearly in the visit of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to Peking recently. If this lesson has not been learned then indeed we are blind. We must seek stability in South East Asia by means of appropriate aid to the countries of that area so far as we can and we must not rule out the possibility of military action in that part of the world in appropriate circumstances. 
So far as defence is concerned - the pessimistic policy - we have to consider, first of all, the likely threats and then we must build or acquire equipment and train personnel to meet those threats. We must begin the longer term projects now so that we are in a position to defend ourselves later if the need should arise. For example, if it takes, say, 7 years to build the kind of ships that we need for the sorts of threats that we may anticipate then we must begin to do it now and not in 7 years time. We should not rule out having the capability at least of developing nuclear weapons if we should need to do so. We must not be chicken hearted about these things. Nobody knows what the situation of this world will be in a few years time. If we are to defend ourselves we need to have the spirit to do it. Arms are not enough. Trained personnel are by themselves no use. Nothing is any use unless a country has the spirit of independence and the morale to defend itself. Here we can learn something from Sweden and Switzerland, from Israel and Singapore. I would hope that Australia has the same spirit. 
Now I turn very quickly to those domestic problems which are most important. Inflation is the one which faces us most, immediately, with all its impact upon our exporting industries, with the distortion of. the internal economy. We should always remember that galloping inflation - and this can happen almost overnight - brought to power Hitler and the social upheaval that produced World War II. This is something that ought not to be forgotten, and cannot be forgotten by my generation at least. I hope that the younger generation does not have to learn the lesson the hard way. Then there is the impact of inflation on individuals, for which compensation, must be made by those who profit from inflation to those who suffer from it; that is to say, to pensioners, repatriation cases and retired Commonwealth Public Servants for whom this Parliament has a special responsibility. Here I would like to con: gratulate the Government - on having done justice to them. But also there are those who are just above. the pension means test level who also suffer from continuing inflation. I believe that in the longer run this means that we shall have to have a national superannuation scheme so that they may not be penalised unduly. 
What can we do about inflation? I must congratulate the Government on taking certain steps. First of all, with regard to corporations the High Court has now made an historic decision. Indeed, when I read it I thought of the words of Charles James Fox when he said, referring to the French Revolution: 
How much the greatest event that has happened in the world! 
Here  1  would say 'in the history of the High Court'. He went on to say: 
And how  much the  best! 
This High Court decision will confer powers on the Government in Canberra that must be used, that ought to be used and that can be used in the general interest. It will enable the Government also to deal with the activities in this country of foreign investors. I hope, to some extent at least, that it will be possible to deal with the securities industry also which has been a disgrace to this country for some time.  1  hope the Government will proceed through the Tariff Board with the review that it has promised and that this  will nol  be in any way impeded by the activities of the Department of Trade and Industry. Finally, if we are going to have industrial peace in this country - after all, everybody agrees that the inflation is due largely to cost-push inflation - -then there has to be some kind of accommodation between government, employers and employees. If not. we will wallow in a situation pf anarchy which can do no good to the people of 
Australia from the point of view either of our defence or prosperity, materially, spiritually or otherwise. This has to be done unless, as I say. we are to go down and down into chaos. 
I do not have time to deal now with the other domestic problems. I mentioned overseas capital, questions relating to national development, education, the crisis in the primary industries, the need for a real policy of decentralisation of population, the need to deal with urban problems, the need to deal with immigration and the need to achieve a national identity which involves the quality of life and films which we make ourselves. I do not have time to deal with these things now. I hope to deal with them at the Committee stage of the Bill. 
I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that we have a great political difficulty in dealing with all our problems whether they are foreign or domestic. I referred to the need for policies today and not personalities. We have had a surfeit, of personalities, and what this country now needs is policies designed to meet the situation in which we are now placed and policies that can be promulgated to the people so that they can understand and accept leadership. 
So I deal with the question of Parliament and the media. The forum of debate on public issues in recent times has moved from Parliament to the media. On television we have programmes like 'This Day Tonight', 'Four Corners'. 'Monday Conference' and 'Meet the Press'. In the Press we get the pundits like Alan Reid. Alan Barnes, Alan Ramsey, David Solomon, Stubbs, Fitchett and the rest giving us our politics. These have become the forum for debate on public questions; not Parliament but television and the Press. What has to be done is to explain Government policies and intensions. How is this being done? It is being done by background briefings to Pressmen, by Press conferences, by leaks, by way of kites, by way of ministerial and departmental infighting and by way pf currying favour by Ministers with particular Pressmen. At best we get policy in dribs and drabs coming out in this fashion. It is simply not good enough. It is not the way in which any adult nation should have its politics and public issues discussed and debated. 
Is this movement from Parliament to the media a good or a bad thing, that is, that media personalities or those who employ them should replace members of Parliament as the tribunes of the people? As far as members of Parliament are concerned, admittedly we are a dull bunch compared with the clever and well remunerated young men on the television screen, or the pundits of the Press. We are also a tongue tied mob of people thanks to Party discipline and solidarity, reading so-called speeches and plugging the Party line at all times. But at least we are elected and from time to time sacked individually and collectively by the people themselves, and this is the great distinction from the others of whom I have spoken. We are on the whole a pretty sober, responsible and dedicated lot of people who know problems at the grass roots and accept the public interest, as we see it, as our guide. 
As to the media personalities, they are younger on the whole, more personable, quicker witted and smarter than members of Parliament but lacking in general in the more substantial abilities of leading members of the Parliament whose experience is rooted in various professional, business and trade union spheres of activity. The differences in their criteria are more important still. What they must have always is a story. Whether it is truth or not is quite coincidental, but a story they must have. If possible, it should be a sensation. Scoops are wonderful things to have, and a row is always good cop. Slickness, like the introduction of Christ into the Melbourne Club a little while ago, would be a good example. Then there are the personalities, court gossip. Who is in favour and who is not, who is plotting against whom and how and why, who will be promoted and to what portfolio, who will be dismissed and why, who has the support of colleagues and who has not, which lobbyist is achieving what for his customers, what vested interests have the ear of the Government and why, and what scandal is afoot? So they sniff their way along the political gutters looking for some putrescent morsel to produce on the television screen or place on the breakfast tables of the people. 
This is not a transitory feature of our public life. It is in the very bones of this new system, that is, government by the media on the television screen and by the gossip writers, and not by Parliament. Sensations and personalities are in the bones of the system because it thrives not on the public interest but on shallow entertainment. It is time that parliamentary democracy, if it is to endure, had more substantial fare. My generation at least will remember that violence, showmanship and radio brought Hitler to power. 
The answer is twofold. First of all I turn to policy statements. These should be made in all cases in Parliament whether by way of green papers, white papers, by the tabling of reports of expert advisers, through ministerial statements or other speeches by Ministers, through information given by the Government to parliamentary committees through informative replies to questions or through informed debate with due notice. There can be no informed debate unless this kind of information' is given, and there can be no good debate unless there is due notice of the business of the House. 
I believe that there should be limited televising of Parliament to reduce, if not to eliminate, distortion, suppression and selection on undesirable principles by the media. I say 'limited' because this should be done by some programme such as an hour, say, at the end of the day which may be entitled 'This Day in Parliament' when the principal things that happened may be screened. The problems of empty benches, absent members, clowning, matinee idols, film studio apparatus and so forth could be overcome. Any members who are interested in Parliament and the survival of a democratic system; any members who think that the handing over of the function df Parliament to the media is not in the interests of the people of this country - I believe these matters to be not unimportant - will find the whole thing in a report of a select committee of the House of Commons in 1966 and the ensuing debate. The proposal was for a 3 months trial on closed circuit television. Unfortunately this proposal was defeated by one in a free vote. The House of Commons has certain problems because it has so many absentees at all times. Let there be no doubt that the televising of Parliament can be carried out. The matter has been investigated in full. Anybody who is interested in the survival of Parliament can have a look at the report in the Hansard. If honourable members are not interested, they should not worry; let the media take over! 
What is the alternative - that Parliament moves to the media? They will select the subjects on which you and I will speak. They will choose the participants. We will operate according to their timing as to when a debate shall take place. They will have complete control over the proceedings. They will ask all the questions, keep the debate on the rails of their choosing, etc. The handicaps that Ministers have are quite obvious. Foreign Affairs is a very sensitive area. In the case of other matters in relation to which policies have not yet been decided a Minister is obviously very greatly handicapped and he will look like a bumbling fool compared with these bright young men. Back bench members, by definition the lesser lights anyhow and who are usually uninformed, will get no notice when they are to appear. 
Of course, certain objections have been made and will continue to be made, but I put it to honourable members that we face a novel situation in this country. We cannot afford to fiddle while this country burns. In leading this country - in arriving at policies adapted to the needs of a novel situation - we cannot depend upon the media instead of the Parliament for the promulgation of policies that are decided, I hope, in consultation with the experts. We can go along the road that we have followed in the past, but I really believe that that road leads to disaster if we continue to follow it. I hope that at least some honourable members will give their attention to the problem itself and to the means of solving it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kennedy)  adjourned. 
by leave- I did not know until this morning at question time that the Prime Minister proposed to make an announcement on this matter and therefore I have not had the opportunity to prepare the kind of considered speech which I would like to make. I have been able to jot down only a few headings during the course of question time. Nevertheless, I believe that some preliminary observations should be made by me at this time. 
I am deeply concerned about the rate of inflation that we have witnessed in the economy in recent times. I have expressed that concern in the House and I would be less than honest if I then accepted in full what I believe to be the intentions of the Government and the Opposition in this matter. I must say, therefore, one or two words on this matter because it is perfectly obvious that the example that is given by this Parliament must have enormous repercussions on the whole of the community in regard to claims for increased pay of one kind or another, or increased prices that people may wish to levy. 
Firstly I want to make 2 points. The first point is the injustice of the rate of inflation that we have witnessed and are still witnessing to people who are in retirement, people who are living on the proceeds of small savings and people who are living on superannuation, whether from governments, public instrumentalities or private companies. On the whole superannuation has not kept in step with rises in the cost of living. 1 draw attention also to the injustice of inflation to poor people, particularly those with large families. I do not want to enlarge upon this. I simply say that this is a matter of gross injustice because inflation comes, as it has been said, like a thief in the night, stealing the savings of people and reducing their living standards quietly and effectively so that their incomes melt away like a lump of ice in the noonday sun. I cannot see this kind of injustice with equanimity. 
The second point I want to make is the effect of this rapid inflation on the economy - not just the creep of inflation in recent years but the rapid inflation that we have seen recently, which we are still seeing and which is still in sight. I want to draw attention to the effects of inflation on our export industries and on the economy. Inflation distorts the economy. For example, inflation boosts the price of land because this is something that cannot lose value. Also, there is the gambling on the slock exchange because people have sought to make up by way of capital gains what they cannot get from the normal return on investments. There are other distortions. But this is not a speech on inflation. I merely make the point that what Parliament does is an example to the community as a whole and that inflation is, firstly, a grave injustice to many people in this community and, secondly, it has enormous distorting effects and influences on our export industries and the economy. 
Another matter which I wish to mention is this: The Prime Minister has referred to the terms of reference of the inquiry. I want to say a few words about this matter. I hope that the Judge will make an analysis of the movement of comparable salaries, that is to say salaries in the bracket of professional people whose salaries have been traditionally of the same order as the salaries of members of Parliament. 1 hope that he will examine the movement of comparable salaries since the last adjustment in 1968. It has been less than 3 years since this adjustment was made. This should not be a work value inquiry. It should be related purely to the increase of other comparable salaries. However, there are no comparable salaries really because other people do not have the same responsibilities of a member of Parliament. If the salary of an employee of the Public Service or some person in the office of the Prime Minister, maybe, has gone up, that has nothing whatever to do with the responsibilities of members of Parliament. The official or other person is entitled to whatever he may get. But members of Parliament have a responsibility to set an example to the people at large. I have a responsibility to my constituents and there are thousands of them who are in the categories that I have mentioned and who are suffering injustices. It is not that I do not have regard or sympathy for members of this House, especially those with young families and who perhaps may be paying off mortgages on homes. But I also have sympathy with the thousands of others whom I represent and those in this country who suffer from the results of inflation and who, if this Parliament sets a certain example, will suffer even more. So much then for the nature of the inquiry. 
The next matter I want to mention - and I will conclude on this important point - concerns what action will be taken on the report. I assume that the report will be tabled, and that it will not merely be presented to the Government as has been the case with too many reports. I expect the report to be tabled and when it is tabled this Parliament may take such action as it pleases upon it. The Government could let the report lie and take no action at all, or it could take no action for 12 months or until the next Parliament or it could accept the report in part. It could say: 'We will accept the increase but not the whole of the increase', and cut off a certain percentage of it. It could take this kind of action. As I have said, Parliament has a special responsibility in this matter. In due course we will have the report; in due course no doubt legislation will be introduced. I reserve what I have to say at greater length and in more detail till that time. At the moment I merely put into the mind of the Prime Minister that action on the report is a different thing from getting the report or from what the report may recommend. This is not a pleasant task that I have had to say these things today. I know that I shall not be a popular member in this Parliament and I am also aware that so far as the people are concerned neither shall I be popular with them. They are all seeking increases in wages or salaries or whatever it may be and if Parliament does what is proposed they will cheer. They will say: 'Ah! That gives us a greater opportunity of pressing our claims too.' Indeed, this is the hub of the matter. So I expect popularity neither in this Parliament nor among the people. But when one sees something very clearly as one's duty - and 1 hope I will not be regarded as priggish in this; I dislike this task intensely - I feel I must say what I believe to be the truth of the matter. 
Does, the Minister for Defence propose to make a defence statement before the debate on the defence estimates or at all - a. statement as informative as the excellent and illuminating one made by his predecessor, the present Minister for Education and. Science, in March of last year? Does he regard the dramatic events leading to the further disengagement of our great and powerful friends from the eastern and South East Asian area and the strengthening of potentially hostile powers in the Indian Ocean area since the last statement was made as justifying complacency? Finally, can he say whether several series of articles on defence matters recently appearing in the Press were inspired by the Service departments themselves, by interested purveyors of equipment or by journalistic fancy? In any event, does he regard them as a sufficient substitute for a meaningful statement on Government, policy in this Parliament? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement in today's newspapers by 12 of Australia's leading academic economists urging the Government to realign the Australian dollar somewhere half way between the United States dollar and the yen. I ask the right honourable gentlemen: Firstly, is it a fact that manufacturing and rural industries and mineral exporters have been urging realignment on the basis of parity between the Australian and United States dollars? Secondly, is it a fact that, if the course urged by these powerful pressure groups were adopted, it would add fuel to the fires of inflation, whatever else it might or might not do? In these circumstances, can the Prime Minister give an assurance that, when the Government announces its decision, it will table a White Paper honestly distilling the advice tendered to it by its experts in the Treasury, the Reserve Bank and elsewhere, in order to reassure the people that a responsible decision has been made? 

 - Mr Hallett, we are required under a clause of this Bill to vote a sum in excess of $4m for the running of this Parliament during the current financial year. The question is whether the public is getting full value for that money. I am not going to suggest radical things like the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has suggested but I will put some simple reforms that might make all the difference and which are within the power of the House if it chooses to exercise that power. First of all, why is the House so empty at most times? Just before I rose to speak in this debate I noticed that there were 15 people in the public gallery, 12 honourable members in the House, the  Deputy Chairman,  the 2 Clerks and 2 Hansard reporters. The number may have altered by one or two since then. This is a typical situation. Why is this so? Various reasons have been given but we ought to be asking ourselves why members and the public take so little interest in the proceedings of this place. There may be something the matter with us. 

 Sir, I would suggest first of all the inclusion of a standing order which was repealed about 5 years ago and which now permits honourable members to read speeches in this place. Nothing is duller than a read speech; a speech that is read, that is badly read, is not worth reading, lt is, I suggest, a simple means of infusing some life into a place that has become dead. Even those honourable members who sit here are mainly conscripts - conscripted by the Whips. Why is this so? Reading lacks the vivacity of the spoken word. Nobody attempts to answer what has been said by his predecessor because it is not in his script. The position is exacerbated by the cutting of the time honourable members have for debate. They do not have time to answer anything. They have to get on with the little bit in their script. 
Let me pass on to the time that is wasted in this House, first of all in relation to the Opposition and then in relation to the Government. For matters of public importance 2 hours are allowed. This kind of thing sometimes occurs twice in a single week. The Standing Orders are suspended at any opportunity, and this again wastes time. Spurious points of order are taken and dissent from the Speaker's ruling is moved. I would be the first to agree that when an Opposition is implacably opposed, root and branch, to a Bill brought forward by the Government it has every right to use all the devices of the House to oppose that Bill. But I am talking about senseless, inane, stupid obstruction for no purpose whatsoever. The result of this is that there is not then time for those things that ought to have time and that are really important. I am speaking about the inane abuse of the privileges and rules of the House. 
Now I come to the Government's situation: Today we have had, for example, apples and pears, pears and apples. We have got to the core of the matter a dozen times in the course of last 2 days. If every honourable member who has apples and pears growing in his electorate has to speak because he needs to have his speech published in the local Press, we should cut down the time for speeches to 5 or 10 minutes. Let him say his piece for the local Press and finish, and then we can gc, on with important matters. 
There has been a haphazard timetabling of Bills. We dawdle through the early stages of the sessional period and then we rush through the last stages. I think that the last sessional period reached the very apex in this respect when something like 17 Bills were dealt with, if that is the correct expression, in the last 3 days. Either nobody is trying or nobody cares. In either event we cannot be surprised if neither honourable members nor the public are interested in our proceedings and the House is empty. Seldom do we receive reasonable notice in advance of Bills that are to be brought forward. So we do not have time for preparation. Speeches that are not prepared are not worth listening to. 
Why do we not use White Papers in this House? The Westminster Parliament, on which we profess to model ourselves, uses this obvious device. If the Government has a policy which may involve bringing down a number of Bills and a number of administrative actions to put it into effect it tables a White Paper setting out the totality of the policy and then there is a debate on the White Paper which sets out the facts and argues the considerations. We do not do this. No, we have second reading speeches mumbled by a Minister at the table. Nobody listens. They do not really matter. Why can this not be done by White Papers instead of wasting time while Ministers mumble at the table? Let us have due notice as well. A White Paper could be reasoned at greater length than the Minister's second reading speech which covers only part of the total policy involved. A White Paper could cover the ambit of a number of Bills and administrative actions. It could enable Ministers to make brief, crisp, debating speeches in introducing the debate on the White Paper instead of the abominations that we have. lt could provide a better basis for informed debate. But no, we do not have White Papers here. We stick to what we had 70 years ago when we were all colonies. 
Let me refer now to question time. We have far too many party political questions inviting rambling party political answers. We have no provision for supplementary questions, and therefore no probing of answers is possible. The first question may be about Aboriginals, the next on the special drawing rights created by the International Monetary Fund, and the third question may be on skeleton weed in the Mallee. There is no possibility of moving on with supplementary questions to probe particular matters. What is required is a factual reply followed by supplementary questions, as is done in other parliaments. That is not good enough for us here. No, we stick to the old style - the way we have always done it. 
Let me come now to the Estimates debates. What could be more futile than a debate like this? This is not a committee. I called the  Chairman 'Mr Hallett',  to be committee-like. But let us look at the whole of the surroundings. We are sitting here as if it were a second reading debate. The Minister's advisers are sitting back there and he cannot turn around and ask them a question. Nobody ever raises a point, as used to be done once, long, long ago, as to why some item is larger or not as large as it was the year before. This does not happen here. I have seen it happen. I have been in Parliament 34 years. I have been in even long enough to have heard some question asked about the expenditure, which is what an Estimates debate is supposed to be about. Obviously we need an Estimates debate. I know that my friend, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  if he gets back here in time, will have something to say about the form of the Estimates. That is vital to a proper consideration of the Estimates. So many Bills are either technical or machinery measures that obviously at the Committee stage they ought to be referred to a committee instead of wasting the time of the House. 
I refer now to private members Bills. Some of my colleagues here who appeared on television the other night had to rack their brains to think of a private member's Bill that had ever been introduced in the House in their time. At last they thought of  Mr Joske's  Bill many years ago. We do not have a private member's day on which members can draw lots in a ballot to see which honourable member will have the opportunity of introducing a Bill, as they do in the House of Commons. We get no assistance whatever from the legal staff in drafting Bills, so we do not have private member's Bills. I will not go on to mention the assistance that might be given to honourable members by more effective staff. I finish by saying that the other day I raised in the House - of course nobody took any notice - the question of the partial televising of Parliament for the purpose of a half hour session at the end of the day, taking out the essence of the debate and the things that had been raised during the day. I point out that this was fully and extensively debated in the House of Commons in 1966. The idea of having an experiment along these lines was defeated by only one vote. But we are not interested in that kind of thing. Let Parliament be buried. If the Bible had remained in Latin and had never been translated into the common tongue I suspect that the Bible would have been forgotten by this time. If Parliament is unwilling to use the modem means of communicating itself to the people, it too will be forgotten. Not only will it be dead, as it is now, but buried as well. 
The matter before the Committee is whether it should vote a sum well in excess of $30m to enable the Department of the Treasury to carry on its administration during the current year. Before turning to some matters that I feel deserve mention I am constrained to refer to one or two speeches that have been made by honourable members earlier in the course of this debate. First I would like to refer to some remarks made by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  particularly because he referred not only to me but also to my friend, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  in regard to some things that we had said in the course of an earlier debate. The honourable member referred to our suggestion that a House of Representatives estimates committee should be set up to scrutinise the Estimates in a way that they can not be examined in a committee of the whole as this is. The honourable member argued that the Joint Committee of Public Accounts was adequate to deal with any matters that might otherwise come before an estimates committee if the House thought fit to set one up. 
In these 2 arguments he said, first of all, that under its charter the Public Accounts Committee can do whatever an estimates committee might do. Secondly, he said that if the House were to set up a further committee in addition to those that we already have it would impose too great a strain on the resources of this place and the resources of the Public Service. So far as the Parliament is concerned I understand that the Public Accounts Committee consists of 10 members, 7 from the House of Representatives and 3 from the Senate.. If another Committee were set up with a similar membership we would be very lacking in capacity if we could not provide the necessary number of members. As far as the Public Service is concerned, this would impose further strain on it, but I would suggest to my honourable friend that the time of public servants could be saved if they were not required to wait for long periods until the committees were ready for them but were given due warning when they were expected to appear. I am not saying that this would not impose additional burdens upon the Public Service but these should not be insupportable. 
I would mention that in the United Kingdom - we claim to model ourselves on the Parliament of Westminister which of course we do not - not only is there a Public Accounts Committee but also an Estimates Committee. That Parliament seems to think that the 2 functions arc not one but separate functions. That Parliament has, of course, a number of other committees but it also has many more members. I will not go into this now. What are the functions of these committees? Why are they different? The principal function of the Public Accounts Committee is to ensure that when Parliament votes a specific sum of money for a particular purpose the Public Service does in fact use that money for that purpose and no other. This is the principal function of the Public Accounts Committee. But I suggest that an estimates committee would look at the various amounts of money proposed to be spent on particular objectives and would seek information as to what were the policies behind those proposed expenditures. To my mind this is a separate question altogether and one of tremendous importance to us. Here we are voting more than $34m to the Treasury. For what purpose is the money to be spent? We would like to know. We have listed item after item but we might like to scrutinise the officers and say: 'Why are you spending this amount of money on this item? What is it for? What are the policies that lie behind it'? We would be wiser men if we knew. As it is we have no machinery to enable us to know. I will leave this matter but I repeat that - and in this I have been ably supported by my friend the honourable member for Isaacs - 1 believe there is a need for an estimates committee of this House. 
I would like to refer to one other matter raised in the course of debate. This was raised by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and was supported by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes).  Both honourable members felt that as it is a long time since the report of the Ligertwood Committee was presented the time has come for another comprehensive report on the taxation system because many people have been avoiding taxation and a number of loopholes ought to be closed. Specific reference was made, perhaps by both honourable members but certainly by the honourable member for Berowra, to the possibility of imposing a capital gains tax. Certainly one of the honourable members was dubious as to whether he was for it or against it, but both believed that this matter should be investigated. I do not have as many doubts as they have. A Canadian royal commission looked into this matter. 
We have had creeping inflation for years. Now we have galloping inflation. I do not know what happens next. Perhaps we will go over Niagara Falls next. In a period of inflation so many people find it much more profitable to buy something and sell it at a profit later than to invest in the ordinary way and depend upon the dividends they may receive from the investment. I think this is thoroughly bad. It means that speculators and smart-Alicks are profiting and they are profiting at the expense of people who are not as smart as they are. Some may say: Let the smart people profit. I do not say this at all. I say that those who gain from inflation should compensate those who suffer from it. We have a case of Robin Hood in reverse - inflation robs the poor in order to give to the rich. Therefore I think this matter of a capital gains tax needs careful consideration. 
I had hoped to speak on other matters but I was diverted by my honourable friends on both sides of this House. I had hoped to say something about a matter affecting the Treasury in particular - a matter of great importance and principle. I refer to the question of Federal and State relations. There are many clever people in the Treasury. We are voting money for their salaries. For years the economy of this country has been bedevilled by failure to arrive at any principles that would regulate Federal and State financial relations. We have had Premiers conferences beginning with recriminations and ending in buck passing. We have a formula which is no sooner agreed upon than it has to be cast aside, whether because of inflation or because of pressures from particular Premiers. And always you have the additives. When there is a formula additional sums have to be added for political reasons or for some other reason which may be good or bad. The real issue is: What are the subject matters, having regard to their inherent characteristics, that can best be handled nationally and those that can be handled locally? This is the real issue. 
It is in the interests of the people and not of particular politicians or bureaucracies to require joint action. Having determined these matters how do we arrive at allocation of resources with due regard to local and national responsibilities? There have been great changes in the interpretation of the Constitution since, shall I say, 1901. It is not that the Constitution has changed so much but it is the interpretation of the High Court of Australia that has changed. Indeed we never know until we go to the High Court what the Constitution means. In the old days, of course, the Roman baruspex would have looked into the entrails of birds to discover the answer. Now we go to the High Court to discover the answer which is as much veiled from the common eyes as the message of the entrails of birds was in earlier times. We find we have one economy which needs unitary management. We find that now we have tax powers that we did not know we had. Since the concrete pipes case we may well have power in regard to trade practices, company law, overseas companies and the securities industry that we never knew we had before. 
I have not sufficient time in this debate to deal with this matter. However, I had intended to suggest that we must first determine what we should do now that we have these known powers. Secondly, we have to determine how we are to allocate resources between the Commonwealth and State governments. Unfortunately my friends have drawn me aside from my main purpose. I have tried to debate this matter instead of making a read speech and I have fallen into the trap of not saying what I had proposed to say. Perhaps I shall have an opportunity on another occasion. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who just concluded his speech has come up with all the popular answers. He says: Let all things be free, from pills to university. It does not occur to the honourable member that there are many things that have to be done that require money. It does not occur to him that for the first time in our history we have no great and powerful friends in this part of the world to protect us. It does not occur to him that we are faced with a rural crisis with which we have to deal. No, he says that we should let all things be free. 
I want to deal with the crisis in education, which is approaching a catastrophy. I am referring not to the crisis that we hear so much about but to the much more serious one. A decade ago in New South Wales - and I will speak entirely of New South Wales now believing that State to be typical of the other States - it was estimated that 17 per cent of those entering their first year in secondary schools would stay till their fifth or sixth year; that is, from the age of about 13 to about 18 years. The percentages so proceeding from first to fifth or sixth year were as follows: In 1960 - this was before the Wyndham scheme was introduced - 17.2 per cent of students went from first year to fifth year. In 1962 the figure was 19.7 per cent. In 1964 it was 24.1 per cent. In 1967 it stood at 24.6 per cent. In 1968 it was 28.3 per cent. The figure for 1969 was 31.5 per cent. In 1970 it was 32.2 per cent. It is estimated that it will be 40 per cent over the next decade. That is, to say the least of it, a considerable growth. 
What happens to those who proceeded to their 5th year prior to the Wyndham scheme or who proceed to their 6th year now? Let us consider what will happen to the people who passed their higher school certificate in 1970. Last year, 28,000 students sat for the higher school certificate. Of that number, 11,500 failed to matriculate. That is 41 per cent of the 28,000. The number who matriculated but who did not go on to university was 3,500. That is 13 per cent of the 28,000. The number who proceeded to university was 13,000. That is 46 per cent of the original 28,000 who sat for the higher school certificate, ft is estimated that 5,200 of those will drop out before graduating. This means that, of the 28,000 who passed the higher school certificate in 1970, 7,800 will be left to graduate. This is just over 18 per cent of the original 28,000. So, 20,200 out of 28,000 will pass the higher school certificate, but will fail to stay the course and will never graduate at a university. The wastage here is quite appalling. 
What about jobs for those who graduate? I refer to those 18 per cent who passed the higher school certificate in 1970 and who will graduate? What of jobs for them? The Minister for Labour and Industry in New South Wales said this the other day: 
In a survey carried out last year- 
That was in 1970:   on the demand and supply position for 1st year graduates entering certain selected fields of work, it was indicated that employers in 70 per cent of the work fields surveyed indicated that the supply of graduates exceeded the demand. 
But still we must drive them through, with all the failures that result. This means tremendous expense to taxpayers in respect of mere numbers of students who never stay the course. We have much more elaborate schools than we have ever had before, with much more elaborate equipment than could have been dreamed of 10 years ago, and with expensive libraries, expensive laboratories and all the rest of it - for people who fail to stay the course. Secondly, there is tremendous expense to parents who also - the honourable gentleman overlooked this - are taxpayers. Thirdly, there is the unhappiness of the children and young people themselves. They suffer strain - the honourable- member referred to this - and defeat and disappointment follows upon their failure to stay the course. Fourthly, there is the loss of useful effort for the community through the tragic misallocation of human resources. Yet honourable members opposite say: 'More of it. More of this'. 
What are the answers? There are, as the honourable gentleman remarked, those who should go on and who do not, those who are gifted children of poor parents who require scholarships to pay their tuition fees and require also living allowances. But, as the figures that I mentioned earlier indicate, not all of these students would graduate if they did go on to uni versity. The home environment is another factor that would result in many of them not being stimulated to go on even if this could be afforded and even if scholarships were available. 
What is to be done about these things? This is a crisis approaching a catastrophe for thousands of young people in this country every year - this rat race that leads nowhere. First of all, the facts should be disseminated. Only cruelty and bitterness can result from concealment of the plain facts that so few will graduate and that, of this number, so many will not get jobs. Again, there should be a stepping up of provisions for colleges of advanced education so that young people can concentrate on courses leading to gainful employment, eschewing university status - not as something inferior but as something different. Better, it might be said, a happy carpenter than a carping philosopher. 
We should aim to give young people the training that will enable them to get gainful jobs. They will be much happier if they do. Again, we should expect parents who can afford it to do more for their children. We should expect young people to work to further their education by part time attendance at institutions. This is how the highly skilled work force was built up in the United States of America. For people coming from impoverished countries in Europe nothing was too difficult and no sacrifice was too great on the part of their parents to enable their children to acquire education. They all worked for something they knew was extremely worthwhile. As I said, there are not unlimited funds and other sources of funds must be found. Those sources can be found in the parents who wish to make sacrifices for their children and in the young people themselves. This has been done. There is nothing new about it. 
There should be, I believe, a revolutionary change in the school system. The Commonwealth could assist the schools by means of per capita payments in respect of each school child whether at a government or an independent school. It could abandon special programmes to provide finance to do this. The balance required could be made up by State Treasuries in respect of government schools and by parents in respect of independent schools. The advantages of this pluralistic over the monopolistic system of education to which we are moving and which is favoured by the honourable gentleman opposite would be this: First of all, we would channel more money and greater resources into education than we can possibly get from taxation. Again, we would give genuine freedom of choice to parents. It is completely phoney to say that when parents are taxed to the hilt, and they do not have large incomes anyhow, they have the right to pay fees to send their children to independent schools. Of course we are depriving them of choice, depriving them of that right, and such a suggestion is entirely phoney. 
It would permit greater variety and experimentation in individual schools, something greatly to be desired. It would give greater freedom to teachers. It would allow participation by the community in the management of schools. There would be safeguards as to standards and qualifications of teachers through teacher training and certification by approved central establishments. Standards of accommodation and so forth could be laid down and standards established regarding curricula and public examination to ensure that children receive a proper education. By these means we could overcome the rigidity, inflexibility, centralisation, bureaucratisation and the deadly uniformity that we shall have if we opt for the monopolistic style of education which is the inevitable end of the road that is indicated by the honourable gentleman opposite.  Sir, I  stand for this because I believe that it is better for parents, for children and for the community and would produce a far better system of education than that to which we are rapidly moving. 
At the outset I wish to refer to the inept title of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. He is not, of course, responsible for Aborigines in the Northern Territory, where the Commonwealth has the greatest control and where most of them are located: where the emergence from tribalised society can best be studied and where the mistakes of the past can best be avoided. All logic requires that he should be responsible for Aborigines in the Northern Territory. His title of MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities indicates that he is not in charge but responsible to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The umbilical cord should be severed. He should be responsible for both procurement and reception of tourists. 
The Minister has been described as the Wandering Minstrel of the Department of Shreds and Patches, presiding over a rag bag of responsibilities of minor importance on which the Government does not wish to spend money and in which there are no votes. Yet these apparently heterogeneous components can be combined into a powerful instrument to serve a national purpose of immense value and importance. The potentialities of this Department should not be underestimated. The Minister's title should be changed to Minister for Australian Cultural Development. We already have in New South Wales a Minister for Cultural Activities. I say that his title should include the word 'Australian'. It would be doubly appropriate because this would be related to the Australian or national Parliament and because the promotion of an Australian identity should, in my opinion, be his primary task. 
I say 'cultural'. As defined in the Oxford dictionary, 'cultural' is a particular form or type of intellectual development. In this context it would refer to the traditions, ideas, attitudes, habits, manners, achievements and the way of life of the Australian people. In a word, it would relate to a distinctive Australian identity. I do not think of 'culture' in the snob sense. The word 'development' in the title that I suggest - rather than 'activities' as in New South Wales - would indicate dynamism. There would be an objective, a purpose to be served by the creation of this portfolio. So let us return to the responsibilities of the Minister. I shall not deal at length with the environment and Aborigines beyond saying in the context of my particular thesis - the development of an Australian identity - that nothing could redound more to the advantage of our national image than, firstly, that we should succeed in dealing humanely and intelligently with the problem of promoting the happiness of and establishing a satisfactory relationship with our Aboriginals - 'the first Australians. 
Secondly, again our image as a people would be greatly enhanced if we could exhibit imagination, intelligence and resolution to prevent the despoilation of our cities and countryside and to preserve our natural heritage for our descendants. It is not too late. It would be an act of criminal folly to neglect our unique opportunity among the industrialised nations of the world to do just this. But mainly I want to refer to the arts in the context to which I have referred. May I say at once that the estimates before us give no indication whatsoever as to how we are spending money on the arts. In Division 247 various amounts are set out for Assistance for the arts, under the headings of Support for the performing arts, National training programme, National and other major orga nisations, Regional organisations, Development programmes, Research programme, and International programme. Nobody knows how much goes to opera, how much to ballet, how much to drama or anything else. The thing tells you absolutely nothing and is the best evidence I know for the setting up of an estimates committee, as suggested by some honourable members including myself in this place some little while ago. 
Basically, it is in the field of the arts, of which we are told nothing in this document, that most can be done to promote an Australian identity. But I want to make this proviso: We should not decry or neglect our heritage from Britain and Europe of such fine flowers of Western civilisation as opera, ballet, the pictorial arts and drama. Much is being done in these fields and should continue to be done. I am not questioning this. However. I must deeply question a policy which, out of an allocation of S3. 85m - I refer to last year as I can obtain no enlightenment whatever from the estimates for this year - provided for $1.26m to be spent on opera and ballet, and $2. 59m for 3 professional theatres and 7 regional theatre companies besides various other projects and institutions. The beginnings of a national theatre company were unhappily abandoned years ago by the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust in favour of opera and ballet. This is not merely a squabble between proponents of the various arts. Rather it is a question of whether we are basically concerned with promoting an Australian identity. It is a question of priorities. 
The following considerations must be taken into account: Firstly, television is the most vivid of all artistic media; secondly, it also makes an impact on incomparably more people than do all other media combined in the modern world; thirdly, in television drama is of key importance because no other vehicle is more apt to convey the attitudes, ideas, manners and customs of a people. How little would we have been able to comprehend English culture in the spacious days of great Elizabeth had it not been for the plays of Shakespeare? According to the Vincent report: 
Drama is recognised as having the greatest psychological and emotional impact upon the audience of all types of television programmes. 
My fourth consideration is that drama, through television, can hold the mirror up to a whole nation and help to mould it; fifthly, it can also convey the image of the country to the outside world - a matter of great importance among our neighbours and in our situation; sixthly, it is more important for us to do this because another culture is being foisted upon us. I shall take a simple example. In an episode of 'Division  4'  - an Australian production - detectives may be seen interviewing a suspect in a criminal investigation with due skill and care but without aggressive brutality, or it may be that  2  American cops appear in a similar situation armed with pistols and scowls against a background of guerrilla warfare in a negro slum. My seventh consideration is this: How are our new settlers - new Australians - to know what manner of people we are, what is the ethos which guides and informs our attitudes and actions, and whether they wish to be naturalised as Australian citizens? 1 have spoken of television but, in fact, live theatre goes hand in hand with television. Obviously the cinema screen and the television screen are closely related. Full utilisation of the nation's artistic talent cannot be achieved through television alone. Live theatre is the real home of the actors and the producers. It is also the training ground for these artists. 'The efforts of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust appear open to question', states the Vincent report. The Vincent report stressed that the standard of Australian productions must be raised in concert with an increased quota of indigenous drama, and went on:  . . it is futile for demands to be made for more Australian drama unless it is able to compete in an artistic sense with the best British and American programmes. 
Let there be no mistake about that. The Committee also stated that it was necessary, for technical and economic reasons, to raise the standard to a point where sales of programmes could be made overseas and recommended: 
That assistance be made available for the establishment and maintenance of drama schools. 
That assistance bc made available on a 'production' basis ... to cover reasonable losses in the presentation of new indigenous drama. 
The proposals of the Gorton government were for a very expensive school directed by a Pole, and loans were to be made available to assist in the production on a strictly economic basis. I say at once that I have nothing whatever to do with personal quarrels over this matter. I deeply deplore that a matter of enormous importance to Australia should have been bedevilled by trivialities of this kind. There is an enormously important matter to be got on with but it has been bedevilled by miserable petty personalities. What we must do is get on with the job with whatever means may be best. All I can say about this matter is to quote the poet - I think it was Pope - who said: 
Whate'er  is best administered is best. 
I do not mind what it is as long as the Government gets on with it and ensures that this proposal which is so important to our national identity at this stage is done. I would like to say something about tourism but I have not time.  1  would like to mention the fact that in America, where I was recently, many of the historical monuments of the past are preserved. We do not do this. It has an effect on our national identity and also, of course, upon tourism. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My friend the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  has put forward what appears to be a very just and cogent argument, but I shall have occasion to indicate a basic fallacy in it. He is perfectly right in saying that what has greatly affected, precipitated, emphasised, if you like, the problem of the rural industries is the increase in costs and the decline in the value of money within the Australian economy. This is all perfectly true, and if it were the only factor with which we were concerned, his argument might stand. But the fact is that what has really brought about more difficulties for the rural indus tries generally, and for the wool industry in particular, has been technological change, and in its proper place in the course of my speech I shall be referring in some detail to the effect of technological change upon the wool industry. This totally destroys the strength of the honourable member's argument. Let me proceed, and in due course return to this subject because it is obviously vital. 
We are dealing now with the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill, but in the course of this debate there has been considerable comment on another aspect of the Government's rural policy, and that is the aspect of rural reconstruction. Indeed, the 2 are closely related because if you spend money on the one you may not have it available for the other, and you may have to make a choice as to where the amount of money that is available can be spent to the best advantage. Let me say, as other honourable members have done in the course of this debate, first of all something about reconstruction. The Government has allocated $100m for this purpose, but this is for all rural industries, and wool is but one. Firstly, if I may remind honourable members, one-half of this sum was provided for the reconstruction of the debt structure of farms which, if assisted in this way, will in the opinion of the administrators become viable. It is a matter of nursing back to financial health farms that are potentially viable. The other half of the $100m is to be used to assist in the consolidation of uneconomic farm properties because they are too small. This is what has been called farm build-up. It is a matter of a property owner buying up adjoining land to make the larger property viable. 
This, 1 believe, has been a far too niggardly proposal because the $100m - it is small enough in itself in relationship to the problem to be solved - is to be spent over a period of 4 years. A large part of it is to be provided by way of loan and will come back to the Treasury. When one considers that the national farm income was more than SI, 000m in 1969-70, it is obvious that the amount proposed to be expended on rural reconstruction is very small indeed. It is only about 2.5 per cent of farm income. It is also extremely niggardly to expect a man who has to go off the land, to start  a  new life on $1,000, because this again is part of the scheme. Technically it is a loan but in fact it is designed to enable a man to leave the land if he cannot profitably carry on his farm. At last we have had something better from the Government - and I am still speaking about reconstruction. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has adumbrated a scheme for retraining those people who are forced to leave their properties. It provided for a living allowance of $46 a week, free training and the payment of a subsidy to employers for those men who have to learn while employed on the job. Of course, this is designed to meet only the needs of those who must leave the land. 
I suggest that more is required in the reconstruction aspect of the scheme to make viable those farms or stations which can be made so. I believe that more should be provided to assist the older people who cannot be expected to be retrained for another job because, in effect, they are being compulsorily retired at an early age. These then are deficiencies in the reconstruction part of the scheme and it is because I believe that money would be better spent on that aspect of the rural problem than on the one that is directly before us, that I have made some reference to the reconstruction scheme. 
I now pass on to the Bill before the House, the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill. How much will be required for the purposes of this Bill? Each lc per lb of the price of wool supported by the Treasury will cost taxpayers approximately $20m. So if the price is 29c per lb and the Treasury guarantees 30c it will cost the Treasury $20m, and so on. In the Bill provision is made for supporting the price up to 36c per lb. In the last season and in the current season when prices have plummeted, I understand that the lowest price received was about 27.5c and the highest price was 33c. At the moment I think it is something like 29c. If the average price obtained for wool sold during the current season were 27.5c the cost to the Treasury would be about $I70m. If the price returned to 33c, the upper limit of the last 2 seasons, it would cost the Treasury $60m. If it sold between those prices - say, 29c - it would cost the Treasury $140m. Nobody knows how much it 
20369/71-  -R- 185) 
will cost because nobody knows what the average price will be for the current season, but I suggest it could be anything between $50m and $200m. This, it is said, is for one year but there are those on the opposite side of the House who advocate that it should continue indefinitely. 
What are the prospects? I will not draw about me the mantle of a prophet. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  told us recently that the stagnation in the textile industry generally shows signs of lifting. It may. We hope it will. But a pessimistic view was put by Emeritus Professor T. G. Hunter, until recently Professor of Chemical Engineering at Sydney University, at the Australian Institute of Political Science Spring Forum 'The Crisis in Wool' held at Goulburn in October 1970. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was present and spoke, and I was also present. It is suggested that there should be an authoritative survey, that somebody should look into the future with a more discerning eye than anybody has been able to do up to the present time. Coming back now to the matter I first raised in connection with the speech of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, let me read the relevant parts of Professor Hunter's paper at the conference to which I referred. He said: 
Having studied the production of natural materials in competition with synthetics and substitutes and examined the history, economic history, chemistry and chemical engineering of all such materials, I am certain that wool cannot survive the competition of synthetics. 
He speaks as an expert with considerable knowledge. He goes on to say: 
Eighty natural dye-stuffs have been replaced by synthetic dyes . . . whilst many natural perfumes and flavourings have been synthetised Polyurethane plastics have largely taken the place of sponges and synthetic camphor has replaced the natural product. 
I might add what he does not add, that some people are concerned about synthetic meat as well. He continues: 
Costs are ... of primary importance, but reliable costs for synthetic fibres have never been published - the . . . manufacturers . . . being particularly cautious and unrevealing 
He goes on: 
However, we can use one measure of economic activity for which data can be obtained to compare the man-made fibre and wool-growing industries. This measure is termed the Capital Ratio and is defined as the ratio of capital invested (in U.S. dollars) to the production capacity in pounds per annum. That is to say that the Capital Ratio is obtained by dividing the capital invested in millions of U.S. dollars by the production capacity in millions of pounds per annum. 
He then sets out a sum with which I will not trouble the House, and continues: 
This technique shows that the capital investment required by wool-growing is from 7.0 to 10.0 dollars per annual pound, depending upon the situation of the property in the 3 wool-growing zones of Australia, whilst the capital investment required for the manufacture of the 3 major classes of non-cellulosic synthetic fibres is from 0.7 to 1.0 both in Australian dollars per annual pound. In other words, it requires in aggregate about 7 to 14 times the capital to be invested in wool-growing than that invested in the manufacture of synthetic fibres in order to produce the same quantity of clean fibre. 
This is the nub of the matter. It requires 7 to 14 times the capital to produce a pound of wool as it does to produce a pound of synthetic fibre. He continues: 
Wool-growing, with up to 14 times the investment required, cannot compete in costs with synthetics and therefore the wool industry of Australia cannot survive the onslaught. 
He concludes: 
Since wool growing is at least 10 times more expensive than synthetic fibre manufacture in initial investment, this cost difference must be reflected in the production cost of natural and synthetic fibres. This conclusion represents the end of the wool industry in Australia, as no competition between wool and synthetic fibres can exist at this cost differential. Wool growing as an income producer will slowly disappear. 
Of course, he does not deal with differences in kind or quality. Wool may have certain qualities that synthetic fibres do not have - maybe cannot have - and wool may, up to a point, survive. But at least, with all the qualifications that one may think attach to the statement of Professor Hunter, one must have grave doubts as to the future of the wool industry. This is where I cannot agree with the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. It is not just a question of increased costs and compensating for this by means of a subsidy. We may be dealing with an industry which to all intents and purposes cannot survive or cannot survive in anything like the form in which it has existed in the past. One does not know the prospects but one has to be highly dubious about them. At any rate, it will cost a lot of taxpayers' money to shore up a great and valuable industry which has this dubious future. It will affect directly up to perhaps a quarter of a million rural producers and, indirectly, perhaps, one million people, lt is tremen dously important, not only in economic terms in connection with balance of payments but also in social terms from the point of view of human welfare and the suffering of individuals. 
What is to be done? We have the deficiency payment concept. Should this be for all people, rich and poor? Many honourable members have spoken about this. One is, of course, on the horns of a dilemma. The Minister for Primary Industry has said that half of all wool growers have had only $2,000 of income left after servicing their debts, so a tremendous number of them are in a very difficult financial position. Nevertheless, there may well be - no doubt there are - some who are wealthier. We are on the horns of a dilemma because if we subsidise them all, some people who do not need the subsidy will receive it. If we subsidise only the poorer producers, then we encourage them to stay on the land whereas in their own interests as well as in the country's interest they should leave it. So we are in this dilemma. We will be giving too much to everybody, some because they do not need it; others because we encourage them to stay in an agonising economic death. There is no justice in doing the one and there is no kindness in doing the other. 
There are some fundamental criticisms of the scheme, lt is said to be designed to give a breathing space - at the price of millions of dollars for each breath - so that we can see over another 12 months what is likely to be the fate of the industry. I hope that this is how we shall regard it, but in about 12 months we may well have an election. I know that many promises are made at election time. I know that there is a competition in promises. So I fear the scheme may continue. I am not without sympathy for the idea of a statutory authority that sells wool by sample through core testing, that parcels the wool into appropriate lots that are suitable to buyers, that holds supplies maybe in stores overseas so that the product can be supplied as expeditiously as artificial fibres can be provided overseas, and that gives technical advice, perhaps even financial support, to users of wool. 
I can see great merit in an organisation that can go out and sell. Perhaps it will not do so well in the sophisticated countries of western Europe and North America, but it may do better in countries like China and those in eastern Europe. But I fear that this may become like so many of the marketing schemes related to rural products with which we have become familiar in the past, in the extent to which the growers are paid from the proceeds of the sale of the product and in the extent to which they are paid by subsidy from the public purse. This distinction can be completely blurred. This is what I fear about a statutory authority. Indeed, for that matter, I would not like to see Economic Wool Producers Ltd prevented from carrying out this experiment. 
So I cannot give unqualified support to the idea of the Commission. I can see enormous merit in it but I have one fear about it. May I refer in the few minutes that I have left to a myth that has seriously been propagated and believed by many people. The myth is that you can bolster up the price of wool if you can establish a selling monopoly and that if one board can have in its hands the whole wool clip it can hold the buyers to ransom and say: 'We have a monopoly of this product and you will have to pay for it at our price'. I hope that those who propagate this myth will realise that they are doing a great disservice to those whom they are professing to help. It is quite obvious that the wool industry does not have a monopoly. Indeed, its troubles are due to the fact that it is in the severest competition with synthetic fibres. It has no monopoly, and any attempt to rig the market in some way for monopoly selling to raise the price is foredoomed to failure. Indeed, if it holds wool off the market it will only the more quickly induce consumers to switch over to synthetics. 
Again, I greatly regret the lack of foresight on the part of the Government - for that matter, the Parliament - in regard to decentralisation. Nothing can be done by the penny package sort of decentralisation that has been advocated here for so long. Quite obviously, any decentralisation, to work, must involve the establishment of cities that can quickly grow from at least half a million population and upwards. Because we have not done this we have no decentralisation at all. The time that such  a  policy can be carried out is when people are footloose. Because of the present position in the rural industries there will be a certain number of people who are footloose, who have to change to something else and who do not mind whether they settle here, there or somewhere else. If the places were there for them to settle we would have some chance of getting them into new cities. The same applies to migrants. I greatly regret that these 2 sets of footloose people - the migrants who come here and those who are going to be displaced from the land - have not been settled in such a manner. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10m immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settle- - ment which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment etc., etc. Since I find that many other citizens like myself have no music in their souls and are totally unmoved by such works of art as 'Swan Lake', I ask the Minister whether he will publish as soon as possible what did not appear in the estimates of his Department, namely, the expenditure of taxpayers' funds on the various forms of art - opera, other forms of music, ballet, live drama and the promotion of film drama whether in the cinema or on television. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether he could examine the possibility of commissioning an autopsy on the white elephant of the Ord. By that I mean a more intensive study by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, or any university or universities interested, of the effects on wildlife - for example, birds that eat the grain, pests that devour the crops and insecticides that poison the fish, besides the silt that clogs the channels and other engineering consequences - when an artificial oasis is created in the wilderness under tropical conditions of climate and rainfall. Would not such scientific study and evaluation of the Ord experience tend to offset to some small extent the losses  incurred in this project by providing warning lights against mistakes in the future for the benefit not only of ourselves but also perhaps of our tropical neighbours? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government has formed any view about the establishment of a system of standing committees in this chamber and, if so, what broadly it would conceive to be the desirable nature of such a system. 
M.y question is addressed to the Treasurer and it relates to foreign investment and to a question that was asked of him a few minutes ago by the honourable member for Paterson. I ask him whether instead of giving an off the cuff answer to an off the cuff question he would seriously consider issuing a White Paper setting out with precision the controls imposed on foreign investment at the present time, supported by statistical and other detailed information indicating what in fact has happened in this field during recent years. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. This petition of supporters of the Committee to Stop Duffy's Forest Airport respectfully showeth that: 
There is a public controversy over the decision to establish an airport at Duffy's Forest, situated in the metropolitan area of Sydney. 
There is a strong case for the lease of 99 acres of Crown Land presently being offered by the State Government of New South Wales to the Commonwealth Government for an airport site to be revoked, and that part of the Crown Land which contains the Wianamatta shale cap to be preserved for all time for the people of Australia by being included in the boundaries of Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park. If the airport is established there will be extensive damage to the ecology of natural bushland over a widespread area. 
Noise pollution will have a detrimental effect over a widespread area of the suburbs surrounding the Chase. 
We believe that it is essentia] to protect the recreational nature and peace of Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park both now and for the future. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that your Honourable House will at once, in the public interest, take appropriate steps to ensure that the Government revokes the lease of the Crown Land belonging to the State of New South Wales and ceases all negotiations for purchase of 37 acres of land privately owned which comprises the 136 acres necessary for the airport site and abandon the proposal to establish an airport at Duffy's Forest. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Randal committee on the wool industry and I ask the honourable gentleman whether, when the report of that committee is presented to the Government, he will consider the tabling of a version of it that will include all matters except those that may properly be regarded as confidential between the Government and its advisers. 
This matter seems to me to be singularly clear. The report of the Privileges Committee makes 2 points. The first is that a breach of privilege was committed because an untrue report was made in a newspaper about a happening in this House. The second point is that this being so, the guilty party should apologise, that is to say, there is to be a penalty. The second point can be dealt with very quickly. The matter is so trivial that the House has not consulted its dignity in dealing with it at such enormous length as it has tonight. The matter was trivial; there should be no apology; there should be no penalty. I should have thought that this would be as clear as crystal. 
The first point made by the Privileges Committee needs a little more attention. The Committee said that as an untrue report was made about a proceeding of this House a breach of privilege, therefore, had been committed. I listened with attention to the speeches made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  both of whom made an extremely valid point. In a sense this is a kind of criminal matter. Indeed, for a breach of privilege some little time ago many of us may remember that 2 accused persons were incarcerated; they were sent to gaol. -So in a sense this is a criminal matter, and in this sense also it may incur a penalty, which is a characteristic of a criminal matter. 
There is a very well established principle of law that to constitute a crime you must have not only a particular act as defined but also a criminal intent; what the lawyers, if I recall the dog Latin they use, refer to as mens rea, that is, a guilty mind. Now, when I look at this case I find that the act was committed. That is to say, something untrue about the proceedings of this House was stated in the Press. So far one ingredient in this criminal act is established. But what about the other element, the guilty mind? I have read the relevant part of the report with some care and I do not propose to read it again. Probably it has been read several times already. However, from reading it I would reach the conclusion that the journalist concerned made reasonable inquiries to satisfy himself that what he said was true. I said, reasonable' and I repeat it. This does not necessarily mean that he saw something with his own eyes but merely that he had reasonable grounds for believing it to be true. Only if he were so utterly careless of the truth [hat he could not care whether what he said was true or false could this constitute mens rea in this case. That is my opinion. 
He satisfied himself as reasonably as journalists do and so one essential ingredient to make this a criminal act was not present. It is true he said something that was false but he did not do So wilh criminal intent. He was not utterly careless of what he said and he would have to be as careless as that for this to have constituted criminal intent. Therefore, having an old fashioned idea that this being a matter of privilege it should be approached by the House in a judicial frame of mind, I conclude firstly that there was not a breach of privilege, and secondly that, even if there were, the matter is so trivial that the House should have consulted its dignity and not wasted so much time on this matter. 
Having listened with some interest to the  speeches which have been made from the Opposition benches I cannot restrain myself in silence. Only 3 weeks ago 1" was in Saigon and Phnom Penh, and I must say something from personal observation. Let us have a look for a moment at the history of this Khmer Republic. The Khmer people once had an empire ruled from Angkor-Wat which spread throughout the Indo-China peninsula. It has now been constricted into the small country that we call Cambodia. The Thais ate into it in the west and the Vietnamese coming down from the north ate more and more into it along the coastal rivers. So, compressed into the little State where it now is, it was Anally brought up against its own Munich, as it were. The North Vietnamese entered into it through the collaboration of Sihanouk and took over large areas of the country adjourning South Vietnam for the purpose of prosecuting the war in South Vietnam. Sihanouk collaborated with the North Vietnamese. These people who once had a large empire spreading throughout Indo-China were then forced to decide whether they would see their whole country gobbled up by their traditional enemies or whether they would stand and fight at the last ditch, and this is what happened in the Khmer Republic. The people decided to stand and fight at the last ditch. They had met their Munich. 
So it was that a soldier and a patriot in Lon Nol decided that they had reached this situation. I had the privilege of meeting Lon Nol, and anybody who has met him - and I think that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has met him - will know that he is a man who lives in a modest little house. It is no palace. He is not a corrupt man; he is a patriot. He is trying, sick man as he is, to preserve what is left of what was once a great empire. These are the facts. I am told, and believe, that 90 per cent of the people in Cambodia own their own little plot of land. Communism has nothing to offer to them. Now we, miserable creatures that we are, say: 'No, we will give them no assistance whatever. It might mean the shedding of Australian blood'. The only assistance that we are giving is a small cadre of men, professional soldiers who like that profession, who are giving some training in Vietnam to selected Cambodians. We say: 'No, we should have nothing to do with them'. Are we providing them with any equipment? I saw there boys, who I would say were 15 years of age, in a platoon who had been enlisted to fight against their hereditary enemies, the North Vietnamese who are spreading their empire throughout IndoChina. I feel ashamed to think that Australians would say: 'We must extend no help to these people in these circumstances'. 
This is what the honourable member is saying. He is saying that not a drop of Australian blood should be shed. He is saying: 'We will have no training team in South Vietnam. We will give no help to these people. We will give no equipment. Not a drop of Australian blood will be shed. We will wash our hands of it'. This is what the honourable member for Wills said. He also referred to the Thais. May I say a word about them? He regretted the perishing of Thai democracy. I do not know whether there ever was Thai democracy. All countries have democracy. Forms of government go by many names. But it happened that I was also in Bangkok and I spoke with people who knew the situation, and what was the situation? The honourable member for Wills says that the Government has not told him what the situation is. Well, I will tell him. What happened was that the members of the Thai Parliament wanted to lay their bands on a very substantial sum of money - what I think would be called in America a pork barrel - and to spend that money in the electorates in order to win their seats at the forthcoming elections. The terrible General Kittikachorn said: 'We will not put up with millions being spent in the pork barrel to enable members to get back in their seats'. These are the plain and simple facts about the perishing of democracy in Thailand, which the honourable member for Wills regrets. 
I do not want to say any more about the Thais. I have said a little about the Cambodians. I have a high regard for those people. I see them fighting for their very survival. I see poor, miserable wretches saying: 'We would not extend a single hand to help them, not even to provide professional soldiers to try to train these people who are fighting for survivial.' 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Many members have said many things for many hours. I hope that I will not be begrudged 10 minutes to raise a serious matter. It is not a matter of interest, probably, to the Press or to many members in this House. But it is a human tragedy and I wish to have it recorded in the pages of Hansard, even if it stains the pages of our history. I said that it was a human tragedy. Let me read this article as an indication of what it is about. This is not the exact case but it is an analogous one. In the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 18th September 1971 there appeared this article: 
An Aboriginal tribe on a Northern Territory mission station was slowly being 'massacred' by liquor, a Professor of anthropology claimed yesterday. 
Professor Ronald Berndt, of the University of Western Australia, said in the three years since he last visited the mission the Aborigines had become apathetic and disillusioned. 
During these three years - in late 1969  -  a liquor store was set up on a mining lease at the edge of the reserve, he said. 
Unles action was taken immediately, the 500 or so Aborigines on the mission would be destroyed. 
Professor Berndt was talking about the Oenpelli Mission, about 150 miles east of Darwin. 
Before the coming of the store, the Aborigines - primarily from the Gunwinggu tribe - were well on their way to adapting themselves to the 'tremendous changes' going on around them; at the same time retaining something of their cultural heritage, he said. 
A good school was available at Oenpelli - and so was employment. 
Mining in the area, with potential for greater Aboriginal participation, heralded a new economy. 
But, under present conditions, the bright prospects would not be realised. 
Professor Berndt claimed almost half of Aboriginal wages, pensions, endowment and trainee payments passed into the hands of the store's proprietor. 
Family life was disrupted, children neglected, ther was an emotional vacuum and many of the adults were well on their way to becoming alcoholics. 
The continuation of the present state of affairs spells genocide - just as surely as if the people were being massacred,' he said. 
The only difference is that, in this case, it will be slower - but it will have the same result.' 
The Aborigines did not know how to cope with the problem. 
They had no tradition of drinking; it was not part of their culture. 
Most of the people were powerless to react against it themselves because they did not see the implications. 
In his statement, Professor Berndt spoke of Aboriginal men and women 'dazed and staggering, lying inert, yelling, quarrelling and fighting.' 
The scene at the East Alligator Crossing almost defied description - with about half the adult male population of the mission in various stages of drunkenness. 
The secretary for Aborigines of the Church Missionary Society, the Rev. Stanley Giltrap, said in Sydney that the liquor Licence was granted by the Northern Territory licensing authority over the objections of both the mission and the Aborigines themselves.  1 said that this was not the case that I wished to raise, but it is precisely analogous. lt refers to an area on one side of Arnhem Land. The case about which I am concerned is on the other side of Arnhem Land. If that is what happened in the area just described, this is what will happen in the other case to which I refer specifically. 
I raised this matter in the House. It is recorded in Hansard of 6th and 7th May 1971 at page 2839. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  in reply to what I had to say, said: 
Is it realistic that the Nhulunbuy community should not have access to the same social amenities as other Northern Territory towns of the same size? There is a need for public accommodation for business and other visitors to the Gove project. The Aboriginals' preference for a club licence would nol be appropirate as it would undoubtedly limit the availability of the facilities to club members. Residents and visitors to the town would be excluded unless they joined the club. Unless a discriminatory club rule prevent it, Aboriginals would be able to join the club and have access to liquor. Moreover, restricted availability of liquor through the club would lead to black marketing, especially in respect to Aboriginal drinkers not wishing to join the club. 
Those are very cool words when one considers that the issue of this licence is the prelude to precisely what 1 have read about having already happened in the last couple of years on the other side of Arnhem Land. I shall ask, before I sit down, that the transcript of the case before the licensing magistrate be laid on the table. I would anticipate no objection to that as the transscript was given to me by the Minister himself. This will allow members of this House or of the public to refer to it themselves. 
In the brief amount of time I have at my disposal I want to refer to one or two of the points raised in the transcript. First of all, an officer of the Welfare Department of the NT Administration is responsible to decide whether liquor shall or shall not come onto an Aboriginal reserve. That is his duty. 1 would like to quote part of the transcript relating to the officer who has this responsibility. His name is Cyril Cecil  Allom,  a Regional Welfare Officer with the NT Administration. This witness was the person who, following the earlier application by Walkabout Holdings which was refused on the basis that the company did not have a permit to take liquor into Arnhem Land, issued such a permit. Crossexamined by  Mr Elliott,  counsel for the Aborigines, he was asked: Did you understand that this discretion - 
That is, to issue a permit for the purpose of allowing liquor to be taken into Arnhem Land -  was vested in you primarily as a protection for the Aboriginal people? 
He answered: 'Yes,  Sir'. On  the same page of the transcript the witness also admitted that on the earlier application he had stated that before issuing a permit he would consult all parties concerned. The witness was asked by  Mr Elliott  whether or not he should have consulted the Aborigines before issuing the permit, He replied: 
I have  not  consulted them,  sir.  I would have considered it an  impertinance  to consult them because their views are being expressed before this Court. 
In relation to his earlier statement that he would have consulted all parties before issuing a permit, the witness stated in relation to the Aborigines: 
They are parties, sir, but as I say they are already represented. 
When asked a question in relation to bis powers to issue a permit under section 140E of the Licensing Ordinance, specifically having regard to the interests of the Aborigines, the witness replied: 
No, I think I have to have regard to the interests of other people as well. 
I will not read any more of his evidence. This man was supposed to be looking after the interests of the Aborigines but he did not consult them because they were before the court. The court might have liked to hear from somebody who had expertise in this field and whose duty it was to look after them what was his attitude, being presumably also the attitude of the Government. But I do not have time to go into this matter in detail. 
Let me pass on the attitude of Walkabout to the club licence. Evidence was given by  Mr Graeme  James Robertson,  Chairman  of Walkabout Hotel. He was asked whether he had considered the disadvantages of a club licence as opposed to hotel licence.  His  answer was: 
We would have to break the law; that was the only disadvantage. 
That indicates that the witness supposed a club licence could not be enforced. The witness said: 
We are not  looking  for a way over it. 
He was referring to the disadvantages of a club licence. They were interested only in an hotel licence. So the question of a club licence was never before the court. Walkabout was not interested in it and it never came before the court as to whether a club licence might be the right answer. 
Evidence as to the provision of amenities such as a canteen and provision for the families there in a community centre was given by the Site Administration Officer at Nabalco. This was highly satisfactory. I cannot go into all this but there was talk about a need to accommodate visitors. Yet when one reads on through the evidence one finds it admitted that the mining company does not encourage visitors. Of course it does not. It wants to get on with mining. Nevertheless there was talk before the magistrate about the accommodation of visitors. Even a trade union organiser said that the union wanted a hotel so that the workers in the mine could have their families there. It came out in evidence that this would cost about $20 a night exclusive, of course, of the costs of flying the families to this place and back home again. 
I have not time to go into all these matters and I will lay on the table the transcript of evidence. It disclosed a disgraceful situation where the welfare officer gave no evidence to assist the court, where the applicant had no concern whatsoever for the Aborigines - he merely wanted a hotel licence to do what a storekeeper did on the other side of Arnhem Land - where there was talk about the accommodation of visitors whereas the mine discourages visitors and where every point of view was taken into account except the interests of the Aborigines. This is a human tragedy and T want it recorded in Hansard. 
My question, which is directed to the Postmaster-General, is related to the question asked a few minutes ago by the honourable member for Denison. Firstly, has the Minister received, or when does he hope to receive, the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board on frequency modulation broadcasting? Secondly, I ask him whether the evidence given before that Board already clearly indicates that this, if instituted, would cost far less than colour television, would provide much greater fidelity in reception for all listeners and in particular would result in, among other things, an alternative Australian Broadcasting Commission service for my friends who live in country areas. 
First of all I should like to draw attention to the actual words of standing order 321. Let us remind ourselves of what it says. It says: 
A document relating to public affairs quoted from by a Minister, unless stated to be of a confidential nature . . . shall ... be laid on the Table. 
It is not enough, therefore, to argue that it is a document relating to public affairs because the standing order states: 'Unless stated to be of a confidential nature'. Plainly it is not enough to show simply that a comment relates to public affairs to claim that it ought to be laid on the table, because the standing order contemplates that a document relating to public affairs may be quoted from but the Minister can say that it is of a confidential nature. The 2 things are not mutually exclusive. That is the first point. 
Now 1 turn to a consideration of what May says in the 1 8th edition at page 421. Generally when a Minister or a member quotes from a document the House ought to know the contents of the whole of the document. This is not contested but there are qualifications. May's 'Parliamentary Practice' says that 'the principle is so reasonable that it has not been contested when the objection has been made in time' - 1 wish to emphasise this point. In this case the matter was raised yesterday and no objection was taken at the time. To conserve the time of the House objection must be made at the time. Unfortunately the Opposition has seized upon this letter out of time. May's 'Parliamentary Practice' goes on to state: 
It has also been admitted that a document which has been cited ought to be laid upon the table of the House, if it can be done without injury to the public interests. 
I emphasise the phrase 'without injury to the public interest'. If any interest or person - I do not care whether it is a company, trade union or private citizen - chooses to write a letter to a Prime Minister, whether he be a Liberal Prime Minister or a Labor Prime Minister, is it in the public interest that the whole of that letter from that company, trade union or private citizen necessarily should be laid on the table? 1 do not think any honourable member would go so far as to say that in all situations it is in the public interest that the whole of a letter, whoever may have written it, should be laid on the table. It is possible to argue that this would not be in the public interest. 
According to May's 'Parliamentary Practice' the rule for the laying on the table of cited documents cannot be held to apply to private letters or memoranda'. Lots of argument has been directed to whether this was a private letter, yet standing order 321 plainly contemplates that a document may relate to public affairs but still be a private document. Who then is to say whether the exceptions to the general rule should be permitted by  Mr Speaker?  There is a general principle applying in parliamentary affairs :hat we are supposedly civilised people who accept each others word. Here is a case where the Prime Minister has stated that this letter is either of a confidential nature - it is a private letter - or that it is not in the public interest that the whole of it should be revealed. Is the House then to say that it does not believe the Prime Minister? We can play politics about these matters, but I think that it would be awkward for honourable members if on occasions they made statements which the House disbelieved. We are bound to accept a statement made by a responsible Minister or, for that mat er, a member, and a statement has been made by the Prime Minister that it would not be in the public interest to lay the whole of this document on the table. After reading standing order 321 as it is worded and what May's 'Parliamentary Practice' has to say by way of commentary upon standing orders of this kind, I believe that your ruling is correct,  Sir. 
I think standing order  321  is selfcontained. The Prime Minister brings his difficulty upon himself if he fails to state unequivocally that it is confidential. I assume the Prime 
Minister finds it difficult to say that it is confidential because he said that another man had helped him to draft it, that it was Government business and that it has had as wide a distribution as possible. So even he would find it difficult to assert it was confidential. But he did not state that and you did not give a ruling on that ground,  Sir. If  you had, I myself would not have moved dissent from your ruling. 
I have listened with great attention to the whole of this debate and have learned a great deal. Many true things have been said. Some politics has been talked, some rhetoric, and a number of valid points have been made. It seems to me that in speaking last in the debate, the most useful thing I can do is try to draw some of the threads together and reach some conclusions, tentative though they may be and badly equipped as I may be to perform such a task. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  pointed out that a great deal of detail is beyond the comprehension of most of us - I am certainly one - and this, therefore, has not had great attention during the course of the debate. Consequently the debate has tended to be a question of the philosophy that should underly tariff policy in Australia at this time. As the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  pointed out, we start with a certain situation. Our manufacturing industry began to develop at the time of World War I because supplies from overseas were cut off. It took another spurt at the time of the depression and again during World War II. So we have a situation at the present time that has arisen from historical circumstances. The growth has been so higgledy-piggledy, without principle behind it. We start with this situation and the question now is: What do we do in this situation? I was impressed with a number of the points made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and then with the points made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  if I may particularise, because by looking at what they said one arrives at the essence of the matter before us. 
As I understood the honourable member for Lalor, he was not opposed to rationalisation, particularly of one industry under consideration now, namely, the woven shirts industry. The Tariff Board report referred to the fact that it was a very fragmented industry and that if it were drawn together, if it were rationalised, then it could be more efficient. The honourable member for Lalor was not necessarily opposed to this, but he made some qualifications. Yet when one comes to look at his attitude to this industry in practice one reaches the conclusion that though in principle he agrees with what the Tariff Board proposes, in practice he would not do it. This may be partly because there are divergencies on his own side of politics, just as there are divergencies on this side. Indeed, I think the division cuts across party lines. 
I have no doubt that the honourable member for Lalor was also moved by compassion for those who, through the adaptation of an industry, might be thrown out of work or might have their incomes reduced for a short or a long period of time. Nevertheless, if one is not going to face the fact that there will be some discomfort or some dislocation for some people, then one is certainly not going to be able to do anything much about rationalising an industry. However careful one is about this, however one tries to ensure that any man thrown out of work is employed again promptly, there must always be discomfort and dislocation for many people. We cannot all have the kind of job we would like brought right to our door. So this principle which the honourable member accepts, if limited in practice by his qualifications, is almost incapable of being carried into effect at ali. 
Quite rightly the honourable member for Lalor condemned the situation in which our tariffs have remained practically untouched since the emergency legislation in the early years of the depression, and I would agree with him that this is bad and that it reflects upon the Government. But it also reflects upon the Opposition because I would say that in this field there has been to all intents and purposes a bi-partisan policy. Every honourable member on both sides of the House hitherto has taken the view that a tariff on anything whatever would give employment and that this was good. It was almost as simple as that, and it was the view adopted, I think, pretty generally on both sides of the House. So while one may condemn the Government, one cannot also absolve the Opposition on this ground. 
Again the honourable member for Lalor was right in saying that the Tariff Board has lacked the staff and the facilities for the kind of job that it ought to be able to do. He was quite right in saying that tariffs are a means of planning, that they are a means of influencing the structure of industry. Tariffs affect people's jobs, distribute wealth and so on. If a tariff grows, as ours has, through history and by accident, of course you are still running against, you might say, the course of economic nature. But 'planning' may not be quite the correct word to apply to this because in fact very little planning has been done. Tariff provides the opportunity for planning and indeed we have altered, as I say, the course of economic nature. But until now we have done very little by way of conscious planning to achieve the structure of industry which will be most in the interests of the nation. If the Tariff Board were better equipped to perform this task, I would agree that this would be a very good thing. 
The honourable member for Lalor, who has thought long, well and clearly on this matter, has stated 3 principles with which j would not disagree: Firstly, inefficient industries, however one defines 'inefficient', should not be protected; secondly, that tariffs should not be lowered except after the most anxious consideration and full inquiry; and thirdly, that there should not be any reduction in tariff without thought being given by the Tariff Board to the possibility, or to the certainty, of other jobs being available to those who are thrown out of work. As I have already said, this may be well enough in theory, but in practice it is not possible to provide another job as well paid and at the front door of the person who may be thrown out of work. 
We, as members of Parliament, should know this and we should not be too compassionate about others. Time and again members are thrown out of Parliament and have to adapt themselves to something else. It is most uncomfortable and they may not be as well off doing something else, especially as at that time they may be middle-aged men. But I am sure that the Opposition would not suggest that nobody should be thrown out of his job in Parliament, because if that were so, if we all insisted that we should continue to be employed in this occupation forever, the Opposition would be permanent and I do not think it would agree with this proposition. Plainly, if there is to be change, some people will be uncomfortable, and I do not think this can be avoided, although I agree with the honourable member for Lalor that this position should be safeguarded as far as it is possible to do so. 
The honourable member for Wakefield spoke about what had been done in Sweden, a small country of 8 million people - a smaller population than ours - and he instanced the case of Volvo cars. Indeed, this matter has been mentioned by a number of speakers in the course of the debate. It has been stated by some that the Swedes had a market close at hand in Europe. On the other hand, the honourable member for Wakefield stated that a large number of Volvo cars are sold in the United States of America and other countries, including our own. But look at the position as you will, a small country like Sweden which is able to produce a particular make of car and sell 75 per cent of those cars abroad, and making all the qualifications you like about the market in Europe being close at hand, this is a most remarkable achievement, and I think that the honourable member for Wakefield really made a point. Here was efficiency in a big way, and he drew our attention to the fact that our industry should be structured much more efficiently than it is. 
Personally, I believe that we are starting on a new chapter in our history and that we cannot afford to be inefficient if we wish  to  survive. We are faced, as a small country, with a world today in which there are, in effect, 5 super-powers. No longer are we likely to have access, as we did in the past, to markets for our primary products. The technological revolution has resulted in wool being in a position different from that which it held in the past, whatever happens. The markets available for our dairy products, our wheat and even our meat are, to say the least of it, uncertain, and we simply cannot any longer afford to be inefficient in our manufacturing industry or indeed in our primary industry. The good old days when it was all right to grow anything you liked, without any regard to whether you could sell it profitably, are over. The good old days when you could protect an industry ito the limit and say "That gives protection' without thinking to yourself that there might be some other industry into which these resources might move, requiring less protection and thus making the economy more efficient, are over, and we will have to turn over a new leaf if we are to survive - at least so it appears to me. It may be said that this is airy-fairy, academic nonsense, and all the rest, but I do not think that you can dismiss important principles in this light way. 
Of course, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  spoke in his usual vein. He more or less reminded me of a line of, I think it was, Bret Harte: 'We are ruined by Chinese cheap labour'. It is the old line that we have heard for a long time. This illustrates one strand or one philosophy in this debate, the holy writ of both sides of the House: 'Protection gives employment, therefore we should protect every industry'. This kind of argument - if indeed you call it an argument - has been propounded since the beginning, and I believe it is time that we refined it very considerably. The honourable member for Grayndler did this, and he went on to say that this is an election year, and that of course explains the larger part of his speech. Again the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  sang his old bittersweet song - down with the city and up with the country. As far as I could understand him, he regretted that the honourable member for Grayndler had not remained where he was born and become the member for Currabubula instead of becoming the member for Grayndler. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  very rightly pointed out that the textile industry is one that can be decentralised and which provides labour opportunities, particularly for women, in country areas. I suppose it would be too fanciful to hope for ari attempt to build at least one worth while decent-sized city in each State in which an industry such as the textile industry and other industries might be aggregated to form a new community. I suppose that is too much to hope for in the practical conditions in which we live. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  made a very good point when he said that the Tariff Board would consider only an industry that was established - whether it should then have protection - and would not consider a hypothetical case. I agree with him. I think this is a weakness in our tariff formation. The real issue is not whether we should have protection or not. It is not as simple as that, whether we should protect everything or nothing. Of course we will have protection but it is a much more refined question. It is a question of which industry we should protect. The fallacy in this kind of argument that has been accepted for so long on both sides of the House is that it does not follow that because some particular industry gives employment, no other industry could be developed which would give employment and at a lower rate of protection. This is the fallacy in this kind of argument. In recent years, since World War H. the economy has been so fully employed that the idea grew that there would be gross unemployment if protection was withdrawn from a particular industry. This is simply not true. What we need is the most efficient use of our resources, not without regard, of course, to the employment aspect. I accept that view. I rather suspect that when we get the Organisation for European Co-operation and Development report on the Australian economy - perhaps early next year - we shall find that our productivity has been abysmally low by the standards of any industrial country in the world. This will highlight the fact that our structure of industry has been quite appalling. 
I would like to draw a distinction between what you do about new industries and what you do about old and inefficient existing industries. As to the first class. I think we should be quite clear that we should not accord protection unless it is the lower rate of protection that the Tariff Board has indicated is sufficient for them. This does not disturb any vested interests. This should be perfectly clear. We should not continue to assist new industries that come along and require a very high rate of protection. A greater difficulty arises with regard to old and inefficient industies. This field is bedevilled by politics. You have vested interests. You have political impediments to any change. It seems to me that the Opposition is rather schizophrenic about this matter and does not know whether or not it wants to use the tariff to control inflation. Some honourable members opposite would like to take some of the view 1 have indicated and try to change the structure of industry where it is inefficient. Others would like to cleave to the old line that the protection of everything as in the past at whatever rate is good for Australia. My colleagues in the corner have been wooing both primary and secondary industries and are not quite sure what they stand for at all. 
We should have a clear cut policy on new industries and with regard to the old and inefficient industries we should have to pay attention to the question of alternative employment for displaced workers. We have to pay more attention to the retraining of displaced workers and to compensation for entrepreneurs as well as employees. I say this because I do not believe it is possible, having regard to human nature, and indeed the nature of politics, to change the structure of industry unless you pay attention to these things. It cannot be done on the cheap. You just cannot say: You are out here, now find another job'. More attention has to be paid to these things, if we are to be realistic about changing the structure, as I believe we must do. 
I agree that there should be reasonable warning before change, but perfection is impossible. In the matters at present before us, to cry havoc is to exaggerate the situation altogether. If we are to start at all on this new line of policy, which I think would have the support of the more forward thinking people on both sides of the House, at least in their private moments, we have to start where I have indicated. If we do not adapt we will not survive. That is the reason why there are no Brontosaur roaming about Chifley Place. They could not adapt to changed environment and they died. They died because they could not change. If we are not able to change, we as a small nation in a troubled and uncertain world will not survive. We should do everything we can reasonably to bring about those changes that are desirable, and to do it with as much compassion as possible. Indeed, I believe it is impossible to do it by any other means. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry refers to an announcement in today's newspapers to the effect that the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn, is proposing to the Government that it should amalgamate the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission and institute a wool acquisition scheme. I ask the Miniser Firstly, is this to be regarded as a prelude to a guaranteed price for wool for all time? Secondly has the Government yet received a report from the Randall Committee on the long term reorganisation of the wool industry? If this report has not been received, can the Minister say what are the terms of reference of the Committee, when he expects it to report and whether the Government proposes to table the report or at least to inform the Parliament fully of its contents so far as is relevant to any proposed legislation or administrative action? Would the Minister also bear in mind that some honourable members may be reluctant to give the Government a blank cheque as it were, without having full information and a report from a competent and independent tribunal, parallel to the Tariff Board, in regard to the subsidisation of wool or other primary industries? 
 I think we should begin by getting clear in our minds what is this matter for discussion. It is the need to rebut recent public statements tending to undermine Australia's existing agreements with its friends and neighbours in the South East Asian region. The first question is: What are the recent statements and why should they be rebutted? I therefore turn to Press cuttings and reports of statements made on 'AM' and 'PM' through the broadcasting system. These are recent statements within the last few weeks. I do not think that any honourable member would have any doubt as to the statements to which I refer. I have in my hand a cutting from the 'Age' newspaper. The dateline is 'Singapore, March 12' and this is how it runs: 
Singapore and Malaysia would not be 'overly concerned' at the withdrawal of Australian army and air force combat units from the region, Labor MHR and former diplomat  Mr W.  H. Morrison said yesterday. 
He then went on to cover himself and said: 
However ... the pullout was no longer such an urgent priority in ALP foreign policy and would be made 'over a mutually convenient time' after consultations between both countries. 
This was a very convenient cover, but as will appear from a leader in the 'Straits Times', the people in Singapore and Malaysia regard it as the sword of Damocles hanging over their heads and no amount of special pleading about this qualification will convince them that the sword does not hang over their heads, that is to say, that a withdrawal as soon as a Labor government gets into office or soon afterwards would result. 
I should now like to quote briefly from a leader in the 'Straits Times', a highly reputable newspaper as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  well knows, dated Friday, 17th March 1972. This is what the writer says: 
Visits by spokesmen of the Austraiian Labor Parly, and statements in particular by  Mr William  Morrison, frankly have been disconcerting. 
They do seem to be overly concerned. The article continues: 
It simply is not true that Singapore's partners in defence have outstayed their welcome, and Singapore and Malaysia will be glad to see them go. If the Australian Labor Party are our friends they can prove it by dropping their gleeful threat to abandon the Commonwealth defence agreement the moment they have power to do so, and to withdraw all Australian troops. 
The article goes on to say: 
Right now it is a genuine and valuable contribution to the security of Singapore and Malaysia. It can be reviewed when necessary. 
In a report on the programme 'AM' of 13th March 1972, the honourable member for St George said: 
. Malaysia has set out on its own foreign policy of introducing a neutralisation concept in South East Asia. I think this Is going to work mainly because after the communique between the US and China, this area, South East Asia, will not be in the foreseeable future an area either of conflict or confrontation among the big powers ... it makes the five-powers defence arrangements fairly irrelevant. 
Why does the honourable member think that the meeting of  President  Nixon and  Mr Chou  En-lai augers a period of peace in South East Asia so that Australia may withdraw and no longer trouble itself about the security of that area? 
Let me quote a short passage from the communique which was issued by  President  Nixon and  Mr Chou  En-lai. This is what the Chinese said in that communique: 
The Chinese side stated that it firmly supports the struggles of all oppressed people and nations for freedom and liberation . . . 
This, of course, is a reference to wars of national liberation. Anybody who supposes that when the statement appears in the communique that the Chinese still, as in the past, support unequivocally wars of national liberation - we know what that phrase means - and that peace is likely to ensue, is rather more naive or perhaps more disingenuous than I would suppose him to be. In the same interview on 'AM' the honourable member for St George went on to say: 

 Mr Rajaratnam 

Whom we all know to be the Foreign Minister of Singapore -  has maintained - and I agree with him - that China is not aggressive. He made the point that Singapore did not want to see the Australian soldiers in Singapore in the first place. My impression of what he was saying is that he's not overly concerned if the Australian ground forces withdraw from Singapore. 
There are 3 points to be noted in this statement.  Mr Rajaratnam  said that he thought China was not aggressive. What would a small country like Singapore, which is not very far from China, say? Would it say 'We believe that China is aggressive' or would it pretend, whatever it thought, that it did not think China would be aggressive? What an idiotic statement for the honourable member for St George to make. 
The second point I want to make about this statement is this: The honourable member for St George made the point that Singapore did not want to see the Australian soldiers in Singapore in the first place. What a slimy one that is, and I use the word advisedly. I think we all will recollect that it was the opinion of the Singapore Government that the ground forces should be at Terendak in Malaysia. Why? I do not know, but I imagine it was because the Singapore Government felt that there perhaps was more need for a presence that would create an idea of stability in Malaysia than there was in Singapore. But this was a question not of there being Australian ground forces in the peninsula or in Singapore, lt was a question whether they should be in Terendak or in Singapore. But the way the honourable gentleman stated it, one would think that what was meant was that they did not want Australian troops in the peninsula or in Singapore. I call that slimy and I repeat the word. The honourable member also said: 
My impression- 
I emphasise the words 'my impression' -  of what he was saying is that he's not overly concerned if the Australian ground forces withdraw from Singapore. 
That was his impression. That lets him out, because he might have misunderstood  Mr Rajaratnam.  We have since had plain statements from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who, I imagine, discusses matters with  Mr Rajaratnam  just as freely, at least, as does the honourable member for St George and we have had his impression that the Singaporeans like to have our troops there, the same kind of sentiment as is expressed in the leading article of the 'Straits Times' from which I quoted earlier. So, 'my impression' could be a very wrong impression indeed and there is every reason to think that it is. On the same interview, the honourable member for St George was then asked a pertinent question. He was asked: 
Now if Australia did withdraw these forces here, the British and the New Zealanders will be caught in a fairly difficult position . . ? 
His answer was: 
That's basically a problem for them to decide. We'll be making our own decisions. . . . 
The honourable member for St George does not mind if the British and the New Zealanders pull out as well as ourselves, leaving the Singaporeans in the lurch. That does not matter to him. The honourable member went on to say: 
The problem that Malaysia particularly has to face up to is internal insurgency and neither a Liberal Party or a Labor Party will become involved in internal insurgency or communal action of Malaysia. 
The five-power agreement makes it perfectly clear that if internal insurgency is inspired from outside - I repeat, from outside - it invokes the arrangement. Once again, I say that he has slimed over the issue. I could quote a clause from the agreement or from the London talks that followed the agreement but I have not time to do so in this debate. Let me hasten over the points that have to be raised. If any inconsiderable backbencher in this Parliament from one side or the other were to make some statement about our foreign relations it might not matter very much; perhaps nobody would take very much notice of him. But who is the gentleman who is saying these things? He has been placarded as one who held the post of a diplomat - not merely a diplomat but a diplomat in Kuala Lumpur. He knows all about the region. He has again been placarded on frequent occasions - although I have never as  Chairman  of the Foreign Affairs Committee known him to be given authority to express the view of the Committee - as, and it is a fair description, the  Deputy Chairman  of the Foreign Affairs Committee. He has been mentioned in these newspaper reports and broadcast reports as the Labor Party spokesman on South East Asian affairs. He has stated that he speaks with the authority of his Leader and his  Deputy  Leader. He has been described in an 'AM' or 'PM' programme as the shadow Foreign Minister. Now what is his real position? Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would clarify this because I think the people are entitled to know whether he is the shadow Foreign Minister of the Labor Party and whether he will be the Minister if Labor gets into office. They should know whether he is or nol. He should stand up to be seen, recognised and known to be in that position if it is true. But that is in passing. My point is that he does not speak as some inconsequential backbencher. He has made these statements with all the authority of his Party. 
The second point 1 wish to make is that he has sought in South East Asia by his statements to undermine the policy of the elected Government of this country. It may be that there will be another elected government at some time but at the moment he has gone abroad and in foreign countries sought to undermine the policy of the elected Government of his own country. Let me take a suppositious case. Suppose Harold Wilson were to go to France at this time and take part in the campaign there to prevent France from permitting Britain to enter the European Common Market. What would honourable members think of a Labor leader who went into a foreign country like France to induce the French people to blackball Britain from going into the Common Market? Fair enough if Labor opposed it. Fair enough if it appeals to the electors in his own country. But to go to a foreign country and invoke the aid and assistance of that country to bring about a policy in your own country is something of which a diplomat ought to be ashamed. 
The third point I make is that there is a suggestion that there has been a breach of faith by Australia with our friends. We have the 5-power arrangement. We have entered into the SEATO treaty. This is a binding agreement and a binding treaty. What would honourable members think of the leader of an opposition party in Britain, say in 1913, who went to Belgium and said: 'Do not take any notice of the treaty into which Britain has entered to secure the. neutrality of Belgium because I can tell you that there is going to be an election and if we are in office we will not honour the treaty'? What would you think of an opposition leader who did a thing of that kind? The honourable member for St George is suggesting a breach of faith by Australia in respect of its engagements. What faith is to be placed by any country in one which says: 'If there is a change of government these agreements no longer subsist'. This visit and these statements were so timed as to cause not only maximum embarrassment and lack of credibility to the Australian Government but also embarrassment to the governments in the countries where the honourable member made the statements. The statements were made in the region. They were made during the visit of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  to the region. They were made on the eve of the visit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the conference of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. They have been made a few weeks before the SEATO conference. They have been made to cause maximum damage to our foreign policy because what can be done by a Labor Opposition in undermining the policy of a government could be done, if this pecedent were followed, by Liberal Opposition in respect of a Labor policy. Does a government speak for its country or does it not? Fourthly, the statement by the honourable member is misleading. I refer to what he said in regard to  Mr Rajaratnam's  point of view and I say falsus in uno falsus in omnibus - a man who has deliberately sought to mislead in one matter will, it can be imagined, seek to mislead in others as well. 
I have not sufficient time in this debate to go any further into the matter but I think I have said enough to indicate that the honourable gentleman, this diplomat, this shadow Foreign Minister, has shown little regard for the ethics of his profession. Perhaps it is not a matter of ethics - perhaps he does not mind about that, I do not know - but it is a matter of the interests of this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs had an opportunity to study the records of conversations which the honourable member for St George had in Singapore with  Mr Rajaratnam  and with officials of the Malaysian Government? Do the conversations give foundation to some of the damaging statements about our relations with South East Asian countries that the honourable gentleman has been making abroad and in Australia? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs had an opportunity to examine evidence relevant to the activities of the Rhodesian Information Centre in Sydney7 If so, have any illegalities been committed by the Centre? If so, what steps does the Minister propose taking to deal with them? In any event, will he inform the House, the Parliament and the public regarding the international practice in respect of propaganda conducted by one country within the territories of another? 
This debate is or should be an historic one for 2 reasons, firstly, because the Government has presented its policy in a different form from any that I have seen in the past 20 years since I have been in this Parliament and, secondly, because the strategic situation in which Australia is now placed is unique in our history. For these 2 reasons, therefore, this debate is or should be an historic one. I should like to discuss firstly the manner in which the Government has presented its policy. On this occasion it has presented it in the form of a White Paper prepared by its advisers in the Department of Defence, and also by a ministerial statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  setting out what the Government proposes to do on the basis of the advice that it has received. So, we have these 2 papers before us tonight. 
The White Paper sets out factual material and those considerations which any government must take into account in formulating policy at this particular time and in our particular circumstances. The ministerial statement, in general, is an endorsement of the principles set out in the White Paper by the Government's advisers. As to the decisions in regard to hardware following upon the principles adopted, these have not been stated at this time but will follow as a result of studies at present in hand. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  - the shadow Minister for Defence - criticised the White Paper and claimed that it was biased in favour of the Government's point of view. Any impartial reading of the Paper cannot result in this conclusion. Considerations are set out, but what is accepted is entirely a matter for the Government for the time being. I do not accept this criticism by the shadow Minister for Defence in the Opposition. 
As I said, the second factor which is quite unique on this occasion is the strategic situation in which Australia now is placed for the first time in its history. Let us take a quick look at our defence policy in the past. First of all, there was the colonial era when Australia was utterly dependent on the protection of Britain - the British Navy and the broad seas. We did nothing about it ourselves. Then came what might be called the dominion era - the era of imperial defence when we made some contribution, together with Britain as the principal partner and other members of the British Empire. 
At that time we were concerned with keeping the sea lanes open between us and the homeland, and India was the fulcrum, one might say, of the whole imperial defence effort. With her great reserves of fighting men Britain was able to send her forces eastward to the Far East, as the British called it, or westward to the Middle East, as the British called it. We bad been involved in the Middle East in 2 World Wars because this was on the highway, as it were, between Australia and Britain. This was the reason why we were in the Mididle East in 2 World Wars; why we were at Gallipoli, Palestine and certainly later in France - because of the insatiable maw of the western front; why we were in the Middle East and Malaya in this part of the world; and why we entered into the air training scheme in World War II. Imperial defence explains all that we have done in 2 world wars. 
Then we came to an era of transition after World War II. We were defeated in Singapore and an anguished cry went up for help from the United States. The legions, as it were, were recalled from the Middle East and we were back in Australia fighting a war in the archipelago to our north, in New Guinea and Borneo. The old imperial defence idea was gone for ever, and we faced a new situation. This was an era of transition. Then came the era of great and powerful friends when we depended on the British, for example, in Malaysia and on the Americans in Vietnam. This was the period of the cold war - the outward thrust of the Communist powers that we then regarded as monolithic. Of course, we have discovered since that they were not. This was the old dependence syndrome. We were accustomed to hanging on to mother's apron strings, but as mother was no longer powerful and her apron strings were of no avail to us we -decided to hang on to uncle's coat tails instead. So we transferred our sense of dependence from Britain to the United States. 
There were certain gains during this period. This period of great and powerful friends has been decried, but let us not forget that it was the period during which the advance of communism in Malaya was halted during the emergency. All was not lost in Malaya. Indeed, it was a great victory, and a victory for that particular policy. Again, I believe that Vietnam gave a breathing space, and it was behind that shield that the situation in Indonesia was utterly changed. So let us not decry the period of great and powerful friends. It gave us a breathing space both in Malaya and in Indonesia. Indeed, there may yet be victory in Vietnam itself; I do not despair of this. 
Then we went through a second period of transition. Britain turned her back upon empire and she turned her face towards Europe. She had to do so, and I have always supported this as being the only sensible policy for Britain. The Americans faced great problems at home and were disenchanted with land wars in Asia.  President  Nixon announced what has been called the Nixon Doctrine at Guam, from which it is perfectly clear that local people will have to look after their own defence in future and that the Americans will come to their aid only if they help themselves and if the forces against them are overwhelming because they are forces of aggression that come from great super powers with which the local forces cannot deal. 
So we come to the final stage where we are tonight - the era, I will call it, of independent decision. It does not mean independence. No country in the world - not even a super power - can stand by itself. But it is an era in which we have to make our own decisions. It is a very changed world from the world of the cold war when there were 2 super powers. Now we have the super powers not only of the United States and Russia; we have Japan emerging as a great super power economically but not yet militarily, though she could become so at any time. We have China emerging with great manpower, but at present lacking in weapons. Europe could conceivably become a fifth great world power. We have to depend upon a great and powerful friend for defence against irresistible forces with which we cannot deal ourselves. Let us be clear about this. It may be that we will have to look after ourselves in the region, but we are helpless against super powers unless we have a friend in that quarter, and there is only one possible friend for us, and that is the United States of America. 
The platform of the Australian Labor Party states: 
The Labor Party seeks close and continuing cooperation with the people of the United States and New Zealand to make the ANZUS Treaty an instrument for justice and peace and political, social and economic advancement in the Pacific area. 
There is not a word about military cooperation. I have not time to expand upon this, but it is quite clear that the ALP does not regard ANZUS as a military alliance. Perhaps we have to face threats from China. I merely take that as an example. The White Paper states that China at present is working on the production of nuclear propelled submarines and it also states that not later than 1975 China will have intercontinental ballistic missiles with a range of 3,000 miles. I do not say that the threat will come from China, but 1 say that here is a super power in our area which has not in the past been friendly to us and against which we may - I hope we do not - need protection, and we will have to turn to the Americans for it. 
Of course, the American alliance does involve obligations, and we have been beside the Americans in Korea and in Vietnam. Also, we have agreed to the establishment of American bases at North West Cape, Woomera and Pine Gap. This is the price we have to pay, but is there anybody here so stupid as to think that if you enter into an alliance and you expect to receive benefits from it, you do not have to pay some price? A land war in Asia is not likely to be a price that we would be called upon to pay by the Americans again because the Americans are disenchanted with that kind of war. But members of the Australian Labor Party even object to the presence on our soil at the 3 places I have mentioned of the American bases which are designed to protect America herself, the broad interests of the western world and, in a narrower sense, ourselves. They have denigrated the alliance. They have taken every opportunity to denigrate the United States of America, and they cannot deny it. 
This is perfectly true, and 1 could quote scores of examples if I had the time. Members of the Labor Party set out to harass and hamper the Americans in the conduct of their bases. I could quote this from their platform, but 1 have not time to do so. We all know that those outside this House who control their Party - not merely in practice but also in theory - have no time for America or for the presence of American bases on our soil. This is the distinct difference between our attitude and the attitude of members of the Labor Party on the question of the ANZUS alliance. But we have to look after defence in our own region, and in the immediate environs nobody will doubt that we have to look after our continental shelf and our fishing rights in the area. But we also have to look to the adjacent islands in the archipelago to our north. 
Unless we are prepared for these things well in advance we shall not be ready when the emergency arises, lt was precisely 6 years from the time when Hitler took power from Hindenburg after the Reichstag fire in 1933 until 1939 when he was in a position to declare war upon the world, when millions of people were killed and tens of millions had their lives vitally affected. This happened in the short space of 6 years. But a ship takes 6 or 7 years to build, and if you do not build it today it is not there in 6 or 7 years time when you might need it. I hope that I make myself clear. We had the same situation in regard to the threat to our security from Sukarno in Indonesia. This is the time when, if we want to protect ourselves in our region, this equipment must be ordered and set in hand. What about our friends? We have the Five Power arrangements and we have the SEATO Treaty. The shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs on the other side of the House says that SEATO is a dead horse and, as for the Five Power arrangements, he says that they are merely temporary and do not really matter at all. But there is a great deal of wisdom in hanging on to those things that you have instead of merely hoping for something better. There is another proposal about the Association of South East Asian Nations' arrangement for neutralisation of South East Asia. I hope that it may be neutralised, but I fear that it may not. This arrangement has not yet involved Australia. Until we have a better kind of arrangement between the countries in the area let us cleave to what we have. 
Should we assist our friends if they are in trouble in this part of the world? There are various ways in which we might help. This is an area in which there is endemic insurgency for a whole variety of reasons - because of poverty, because there are traditional societies in movement and in change where all kinds of tensions arise, because they have large ethnic minorities and because in many cases their powers are by no means certain. For a whole variety of reasons this is an area of great difficullty. But are we to help our friends or are we not? Honourable members opposite reject the military option. The White Paper argues that if we do wish to help our friends militarily we should have the means to do so. This means planning, years in advance. It involves planning now, if we are to have that option open to us. 
It may be suggested that we do not want to have our fighting forces involved there - that it is so uncomfortable. But it would be very much more uncomfortable if we allowed our friends to fall so that there was nothing between us and our enemies. Consequently, we must accept the military option as one of the options available to us to help. We have been bogged down in this place in argument about garrison troops, sending our troops, and so on. I have not time to develop this, but in my view this argument is completely false. The question is whether we are prepared militarily to help our friends if they are in trouble so that they may stand between us and our enemies. Are we prepared to help them or not? It is no use saying to a man: We will help you paper your house', when what he needs is to have a roof on the house. That is what military aid means. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question  h  addressed to the Minister for the Army. By way of explanation may I say that for about 4 hours last Saturday a Mustang aircraft chartered by the Army flew in roughly a circle at a height of about 1,500 feet over a residential area in my electorate, returning to each point in the pattern at about every 2 minutes and that an officer of the Department of Civil Aviation informed me at the time of my inquiry about the matter that 24 people individually had telephoned to protest. Can the Minister say what was the nature and purpose of such an exercise? Why did it have to be carried out on a Saturday over a residential district? Under which authority are such requests for permission made to the Department of Civil Aviation? I mean by that are they made by the GOC, Eastern Command, by a battery commander or by whom? ls the Department of Civil Aviation bound to grant such a request, provided that it does not interfere with flight patterns having priority? Can the Department of Civil Aviation query the Army authorities as to the purpose of the proposed flight? Is the Army aware of the nuisance known as noise pollution? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and relates to the  question just addressed to him by the honourable member for Wakefield. Will the Prime Minister invite Archbishop Loane to supply him with a report on the degree and nature of hardship suffered by certain sections of the community in the Sydney diocese, derived from the information available through the welfare and pastoral services of his church, with a view to providing appropriate and more adequate aid to those who are suffering hardship? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, who is in charge of tourism. Is the Minister aware that a substantial number of Japanese tourists arrive in Honolulu in Japanese-owned aeroplanes and stay in Japanese-owned hotels thereby reducing the economic advantage of tourism to the host country? I am not directing anything against the Japanese specifically but does this example suggest to the Minister that steps should be taken in Australia to ensure that control not only of airlines but also of the hotel industry does not fall into the hands of foreign interests? Will the Minister study this matter and take it up with the Government? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the pitiable plight of a silky terrior who answers to the name of 'Woofa'? Normally a resident of my electorate, he was the victim of mistaken identity and was sent from kennels in Sydney to England where he is temporarily accommodated, appropriately, in Berkshire. The Minister for Health in another place has indicated that he may, after a month at sea on the return voyage, have to spend another 2 months in quarantine. Is it not possible in a shorter time to determine whether he is suffering from foot rot, Newcastle disease or perhaps even rabies? I ask the Minister to confer with his colleague to see whether they can do better for this much loved, sad and lonely creature? 
Could the PostmasterGeneral give some definition of the phrase the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission'? Does it mean that the Commission should operate without interference from the government of the day on the premise that its powers are exercised fairly and impartially in the interests of the whole community, since it is the community as a whole that nourishes and sustains it? Or does it mean that individual employees of the Commission are at liberty to purvey their own personal views, commanding a more extensive audience and capable of greater influence than that available to any of the people's representatives? Would the Minister please invite the Commission to supply a copy of the delegations given by it under the powers conferred upon it by the Broadcasting and Television Act to any member or members of the Commission and of any guidelines given by it or by them or by its senior management to the controllers of current affairs programmes? Would he please lay on the table a copy of such delegations and guidelines if obtainable from the ABC? At the same time, would he inquire whether such guidelines as issued by the British Broadcasting Corporation in England have in fact been published. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Bearing in mind the concern expressed by many Australians regarding the aftermath of the war in Bangladesh, I ask the honourable gentleman whether he has any information regarding the magnitude of the recent natural disaster in the Philippines. Can he say how far international resources have been mustered to cope with it? In particular, can he indicate what aid has been and is being given by Australia? Finally, how does he perceive our relationship with the Republic? 
I move: 
That the debate be adjourned. 
I do this to enable the Treasurer to make an allegedly brief statement after which I will resume the debate on the Budget. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
A Budget, of course, reflects many of the policies of a government because the policies have their counterpart in the revenue raised and the expenditures that are detailed in that Budget. In the 20 minutes that I have available to me it is obvious that I cannot canvass a large number of matters. I shall therefore concentrate on two or three that appear to me to be the most important. When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke on Tuesday evening he referred to the excuses that the Government had made for not doing this and not doing that Excuses can be of 2 kinds. Firstly, there can be the excuse of the school boy who arrives late having come to school on a ferry, whose clothes are dripping wet, and who says he is late because he fell in the water. It is quite obvious that his excuse is valid. Secondly, there may be the office boy who comes up with the excuse for the sixth time that he has to attend the funeral of his grandmother on a day which happens to coincide with a cricket test match. Some excuses or reasons may be valid; others not. 
I wish to say a few words about the reasons why the Government has faced great difficulties before I proceed to other aspects of the Budget. I believe that no government in the history of Australia since the earliest days of the colony has faced greater difficulties than the present Government faces today. We have seen the collapse of an empire of which we were part and we now know that our old connection with Britain is no longer what it was. The security of the world is no longer in the hands of 2 superpowers conducting a cold war, we being a satellite of one of them. There are now in existence or emerging 5 super-powers, and we have to decide how to navigate in these difficult waters. A statement was made by President Nixon which indicates that in the future we shall have to depend upon ourselves much more than we have ever done in the past. Unless we are blind we can see that local military power is still important. In Bangladesh it was the greater strength of the Indian Army that resolved the issue. In the Middle East it was the military power of Israel which determined the outcome. In South Africa, no matter what the Africans may do, no matter how they may rage, it is the greater military strength of the South African Government that preserves the situation there. In other words, local power is still immensely important. 
So one looks to the Budget to see whether the Government has adequately taken into consideration our national security without which all our domestic concerns are as nothing, because the preservation of the state is the first requirement. I do not propose to go into this matter in detail except to say that despite all the criticism that is being levelled against the F1ll aircraft the day may come when we are exceedingly glad to have it. The Government has now embarked on one of the largest programmes it has ever undertaken in providing destroyers, a naval force that is able to look after the situation in our environment, particularly the archipelago to our north and in the seas to the east and west adjoining our coasts. Again, the Government seeks to preserve the strength of a very small standing Army. On the other hand, the Opposition - one must always remember in a Budget debate that the Opposition is the alternative government, and the more so on the eve of an election - proposes nothing of this kind. It thinks there is no threat whatsoever. Those of us who remember how in a very short time, between 1933 and 1939, the threat of Hitler blew up in Europe and those of us who remember how quickly the threat from Sukarno blew up on our northern shores will not be so complacent. We know that these things can happen quickly. Unless the keels of ships have been laid and they are built, it is useless when the threat arises to then start building a ship which may take 6 years to complete. So the Government prudently is looking to the security of this nation upon which all the other things we have must rest. 
The Australian Labor Party says: 'We believe in ANZUS'. Perhaps that is so, but it has downgraded it. Now it is not a defence alliance, but simply a kind of economic partnership. There is a great difference between the Labor Party's attitude and our attitude to the ANZUS alliance which, in the last resort, we regard as the sheet anchor of our defence. I do not want to go into this matter beyond saying that if one looks at this item of expenditure - a very considerable item and a most important one from a national point of view - one finds that the Government is pursuing a prudent course and the Opposition has no answers. 1 turn to these other so-called excuses. I come to the field of trade. The wool industry - the greatest of our primary industries, our greatest export industry until recent times and certainly a key industry in this country - has faced, through technological change, competition that it has never faced before. One cannot suppose that with the development of artificial fibres wool will ever again be what it has been in the past. The Government has had to face that situation. In other times this could have been disastrous; the economy could have capsized completely as a result of such a setback. We have been fortunate indeed so far as mineral exports are concerned. Nevertheless, it is no mean feat of financial management that this has not been a completely disastrous blow to our economy. As if this were not enough, we have had Britain entering the European Economic Community, which has affected other of our exports, particularly primary exports. As if these things were not enough, we have seen the collapse of the stability of world currencies so that exporters and importers have not known what prices they would have to pay or what prices they would receive for their products. What would Labor do about this situation? We have heard a few words tonight and earlier, about revaluation. I do not want to enter into this aspect in any detail; unfortunately, I do not have the time. Hot from television we have this script of questions asked by a television questioner and answers given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The question was: 
On inflation, and in reference to the Reserve Bank statement of the other day, would you endorse what they have had to say about inflation, that it could be reduced either by revaluing the dollar or- 
There the question trailed off.  Mr Whitlam  replied: 
Yes. I agree with that entirely. I think the Australian dollar is undervalued, that as long as that remains it will promote inflation in Australia. 

 Mr Whitlam went on to say how reluctant he was to answer this question. Then he said: 
But you asked me: I am convinced that the Australian dollar ought to be appreciated in value. 
This is what we get from the Leader of the Opposition. Tonight we have had an equally plain statement from another leader in the Opposition, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  in which he completely contradicted what the Leader of the Opposition said. 
The question is not what would I do; the question is this: Can the people trust a party when 2 of its leaders express completely contradictory views on a highly important matter? How important this matter is has been debated already in this House, and I have not time to go into it further. Somebody interjected and asked what I would do. I will tell honourable members one of the things I would do. I hope that the Government, in framing a policy to deal with this situation, would take this into account: What we have is a pile-up of foreign currency owned by Australia, and there it lies idle. As has been said, it could be used to buy Australian assets cheaply. Another thing that might be done with it is this: For a very long time we have refused to give permission to entrepreneurs in this country to invest Australian money in Indonesia and other countries of South East Asia. In the past this has been a perfectly sensible, rational kind of policy because we have been a capital importing nation rather than a capital exporting nation. Now, for the first time, we are in a position where we could export capital. We have some foreign exchange, and I suggest that here is an opportunity that ought to be seized. 
Instead of leaving this fund of overseas money idle and posing a threat if it is used in certain ways, why could we not use it in this way to promote our trade and our prosperity in South East Asia? Such action does promote our trade. I was asked what I would do. I have put this up as part of the answer. It is certainly one of the things that I would do. 
The great problem with which the Budget has to grapple - any alternative government has to grapple with this problem, let us remember; we must always see that the Government is proposing to do and what the Opposition would do in regard to these great matters - is that we face, as the rest of the industrial world faces, what has been called stagnation. That is, stagnation - unemployment and lack of business activity - on the one hand and at the same time growing inflation - prices going up and wages going up. So, what has been called stagflation is inflation while at the same time there is unemployment. The management of an economy is very much a balancing act. We have been chided by the Leader of the Opposition for not having some permanent solution to this problem. Can honourable members imagine any permanent solution to walking on a tightrope? If we continue to lean either to the left or to the right on the tightrope, the results could be quite disastrous. Quite clearly, if we are engaged in a balancing act we must always be adjusting the situation to remain in balance. 
So, at a time when there is unemployment we seek to increase the expenditure of the community in order to absorb the unemployed. This is precisely what the Government is doing. That increased purchasing power may be injected by various means. It may be done through public works; it may be done through reducing taxation and leaving more money in the pockets of the people to be spent to promote employment as well as for their own satisfaction; or it may be done by embarking upon a form of public works - say, housing, which promotes employment probably more than almost any other means. But I have a great objection to using housing simply as an economic regulator. I believe that it should be the subject of a continuing social policy. If we simply pour in vastly more money - the Govern ment is indeed pouring in more money - particularly at a time of land shortage, we simply bid up the price of land without any advantage to anybody. I do not have time to go into this matter in detail, beyond saying that the Government is performing this balancing act by what I believe is the best method; that is, by putting purchasing power into the pockets of the people to serve their satisfaction and to promote employment. 
I believe that, despite the valiant efforts of the Opposition, there are few people in Australia today who do not believe that we are on the rise again, that employment will grow and that nobody who is in work need fear that he will lose his job. The Government has sought to deal with inflation by various methods. These are long term methods. One of them is a revision of tariffs so that employers cannot always feel that they need not mind accepting higher wage rates for their workers because they can always use excessive protection and push up prices. A revision of tariffs is one of the long term methods. Another relates to restrictive trade practices and monopolies legislation which has been forecast by the Government, because it is notorious that these also are factors in the bidding up of prices. 
The Government's policy on arbitration has been perfectly clear. Arbitration comes into play when conciliation has failed. When has conciliation failed? It has done so in 2 circumstances. The first is where the employers and employees in an industry cannot arrive at a common agreement. Then conciliation has failed and the Government's .policy is that the matter should go to arbitration. The other circumstance in which a dispute should go to arbitration is where employer and employee are willing to enter into some collusive agreement to boost wages and prices against the public interest. In these 2 circumstances - that is, where the parties cannot agree or where the public interest is involved - the Government has said that there must be arbitration. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions, through  Mr Hawke,  has done everything it possibly could to prevent arbitration from working. It has said: 'We must have a situation where ever more powerful unions use ever greater blackmail to achieve their purposes'. And so inflation continues. What may be the end of this road nobody can foresee but it is obviously the most serious matter in our domestic situation today. It is a reversion to the good old rule, the simple plan, that he may take who has the power and he may keep who can. Put more simply, it is back to the jungle. There was a time when other countries faced with this problem turned to Australia thinking that in arbitration we had the answer. We thought we had the answer, but no longer. This road is long and the end is not yet in sight. The oil strike ended at last because too many people were about to be thrown out of work. For the sake of 1,000 men who were seeking more than they ought to have, men in other industries were being stood down. Two trade union leaders went on television and said that it had to stop. Nevertheless, we have to remember, when we are dealing with arbitration and we think it may be a new province for law and order, that law is enforced not only by the police but because the vast majority of citizens believe it to be right. Those who have to be dealt with by the police are only the small dissenting minority of little consequence, but we cannot enforce the law unless the vast majority of the community believes that the law is right. 
Perhaps in these industrial matters we have not arrived at that point. If that is so we have a long hard road ahead of us before people realise that we simply cannot go on like this without bringing about anarchy in the end. It may be that the hard lesson has to be learned the hard way, and at long last it may be that the trade unionists will say that this is not good enough. For the sake of 1,000 men here or a few hundred men there a whole industry and a community is thrown out of work. England has almost reached the state today that it fears it may become - and this is a dread word - ungovernable and this is the prospect that faces us. In the circumstances what has the Opposition to offer? This is the great threat in our society today, so what has it to offer. 
Not confrontation but co-operation. Co-operation means yielding always to blackmail - surrendering and yielding always to blackmail. What we must have in this country is a government that, when it really comes to the crunch and we have a situation of open defiance, and this is what it amounts to, can go to the people and seek a mandate from the whole of the people to deal with those few who are holding the community to ransom. If the Government in office can be blackmailed then we have no chance of anything but anarchy and the road to anarchy is the road that Hitler trod. The first need of any modern community must be order; otherwise it reverts to the jungle. It was that sort of situation that led to Hitler. This is the mere truth that I am speaking, attested by history beyond a shadow of a doubt. 
I have not much time left but I would like to say something which is not related to what I have been talking about. In this House we usually have 10 or 12 honourable members listening to debates. We have carried out experiments and they have failed. As a result we have 10 or 12 honourable members sitting here at almost any time out of a total of 125 members. This occurs because honourable members will read speeches which mostly are not worth reading. The standing order that provided that speeches may not be read has to be restored if this Parliament is to have any life in it, if it is not to be dead as it is now. Also the practice of broadcasting into our offices speeches made here should be discontinued so that honourable members have to come in and listen to speeches. Honourable members should have to get up and make speeches- 
The Committee is invited to approve the expenditure of the sum of $5,699,000 on the running of the Parliament for the current year 1972-73. 1 want to say a few words about the efficiency with which this money is to be spent. I do not have time to advance arguments, so I will state quite bluntly the things that I think are wrong and which ought to be put right. I cannot refer to all the functions of Parliament and I shall confine my remarks therefore to its function - to use the old phrase - as the great forum of the nation. How do the people perceive the Parliament in this role? In the autumn session 23,000 people attended in the. public gallery and innumerable people listened to the broadcast of the proceedings. What perception would they have of the Parliament from what they see and from what they hear? Usually there are about a dozen people sitting in the House. Somebody is supposed to be making a speech but in fact is reading from little bits of paper. Ministers read in a rather lackadaisical fashion some material provided for them by their officers. This was described, very aptly I think, by a distinguished citizen recently as indigestible information in unpalatable prose. The debates go on and I say little about that at this stage. 
I would suggest that if life is to be restored to debates - if they are dead, of course, nobody listens to them, like people who are dead - one or two little things should be done. We have carried out 2 experiments in recent years and they have been absolute failures. First of all, we have permitted the reading of speeches. I cannot imagine anything more likely to kill a debate than this. Secondly, we have put public address systems in every member's office so that he does not have to come into the chamber to hear the debate. One can imagine the effect of talking in an empty House. So the first thing is to restore some life to the debate by requiring that honourable members should make speeches instead of reading them and by dismantling the public address systems. 
What has happened in recent years has been the movement of debate on public issues from the Parliament to the media. There has been a communications revolution and apparently we have not observed it, although it has happened right under our noses. Television has totally altered the relationship of the Government to Parliament and to the people. It is no longer necessary for Parliament to be an intermediary between the Government and the people. The media has become a direct intermediary between the Government and the people and the Parliament therefore has become unnecessary from the point of view of direct communication. This has left the field to the political gossip writers in the Press and, in particular, to television where the quizzing by what were described by a distinguished person the other day as urchins of Ministers and members of the Parliament takes place, the choice as to subjects, times of debate, the participants and the guidelines that will be followed in the course of the discussion being left with the television stations. 
Indeed, as I said, public debate has been handed over lock, stock and barrel from the Parliament to the media and particularly to television. The result is that the basic criterion of the media is that which determines what is done. The basic criterion is entertainment and the result has been the trivialisation of public debate. It has become a matter of personalities and dog fights because these provide the best entertainment. Serious debate on important matters has been neglected as a result. I suggest that Parliament should investigate the steps that might be taken for some part of the proceedings of the Parliament to be televised. A new television channel would be available for this purpose; there is no problem in this respect. I am not suggesting that the Parliament should televise such things as, shall I say, the committee stage of the peanuts export bounty bill or something of this kind; I am not suggesting anything so absurd. 
This matter was fully debated in the House of Commons in 2 full day debates in 1966 and the question of whether it would have a trial period of 6 months on closed circuit television was defeated by one vote in a debate that resulted in a great deal of cross voting. That is where the matter still rests there. As I say, I am not suggesting the televising of the whole proceedings of the Parliament. I have some sympathy for the public and for ourselves. But it may be that question time could be televised. It may be that there could be a summary titled 'This Day in Parliament'. It may be that, when agreed between the 2 sides of Parliament, debates of sufficient public interest and merit should be televised. 
If these steps are taken, we must of course alter the procedures of Parliament. Our present question time and our present methods of procedure need reforming in any case. We waste an enormous amount of time in committee stages, in repetition and in many other ways. It would be necessary anyhow to reform our procedures. There are problems that will occur to every honourable member and I do not have time to go into them now. These problems relate to prima donnas and clowns, the empty benches and the studio atmosphere and who would do the televising. I have not time to go into these, but anyone who is interested may find that any one of these things, and many more, are discussed fully by well informed people in the debates of the House of Commons that I have mentioned. 
The other question that concerns me, in the few moments I have left, is party funds. It happens that the Australian Labor Party derives most of its funds from the trade unions and this is regarded as a pure source of money for a party. Of course, it is perfectly plain that the trade unions necessarily expect their quid pro quo the same as any other interests which provide money for party funds. Perhaps it is 2 quids pro one - I do not know! At any rate, so far as this side of the House is concerned, we depend upon individuals - individual companies and individual people. If one is going to require disclosure of the source of funds it is quite obvious that by intimidation many companies would be prevented from making any donation to funds to support the party on this side of the House. This would be simply an application of the gag. 
But the important thing is this: A revolution has occurred in telecommunications. Television has burst upon the scene and television is extremely expensive. This means that we face now and in the future a situation where election campaigns are going to be very costly indeed. If we have anything to learn from the United States of America  it is this: If one is to have very expensive campaigns there will be people prepared to provide the money in return for benefits. This is a danger that we now face in this  new situation where campaigns are going to become, on account of television, very costly. 
There are 2 courses open to us. Firstly we can compel television stations which are given a public monopoly to provide time on an equitable sort of basis to established parties, that is parties that have representation in the Parliament. The other course is to provide funds from the Treasury. There is no escape from this situation. If people do not want to have funds provided from the Treasury - and I guess that they do not - they must look to the provision of time by the television stations or face the consequences that have already occurred in the United States. These are all very serious matters for the Parliament. Unless we are very careful we shall find that we have passed into oblivion and become merely an institution which is ornamental but of no utility. 
I invite the attention of honourable members to these matters because I think the consequences of neglect and doing nothing about them are very serious indeed. "  Mr BERINSON  (Perth) (6.3)- At a time when we are within weeks of a Federal election - at a time when every blow has to count, so to speak - it is rather strange to see that we have put time aside to discuss questions of parliamentary reform, questions without any electoral impact at all. At the same time this opportunity is available so rarely that we have to take it when it comes. I want to raise in the first place some matters related to the place of the Senate in our parliamentary system. 
For over 20 years the Senate has had the potential to be a highly negative and disruptive body and with the imminence of a general election and the likelihood of a Labor government thereafter, that potential could be realised all to soon. The position in the Senate at the moment is that there are 26 members from the Government parties, 26 from the Australian Labor Party, 5 from the Australian Democratic Labor Party and 3 independents. In other words, the balance of power in the Senate is now held by 5 DLP and 3 independent senators, all 8 of whom between them represent a mere fraction of the whole electorate. 
This situation has presented no problem to this stage because when it came to the crunch the Democratic Labor Party could always be relied upon to support the Government parties. The same co-operation, however, could hardly be expected for a Labor government. 
The prospects, then, would be those of very great difficulty in passing any meaningful legislative programme at all and very serious instability of government. Even the double dissolution provisions would not necessarily resolve the problems likely to arise because, although not yet tested it does appear that the Senate can bring down a government without leading to its own dissolution by means of a refusal of Supply. As it is, we already have 2 Federal elections every 3 years, which is far too often for effective government. We should beware of opening the way to even more frequent polls than that. The result at best would be chaos - at worst, complete paralysis of the system. 
There are an amazing number of myths and an extraordinary amount of wishful thinking in relation to the Senate. We still hear people argue, for example, that the Senate is a useful house of review and also the house which, because of its equal State representation, can be looked to for the protection of the rights of the States. Both of those propositions, of course, are nonsense. The Senate in fact is no better equipped and because of its lesser numbers alone is actually less well equipped than this House is to scrutinise legislation. The difference is that the Senate has adopted a committee procedure of substance whereas we in this House remain content with our own empty forms. That is a position which could and should be remedied overnight. As for the Senate being a States' house, the truth is that the Senate votes exactly as we do - that is on party and not State lines; it always has and there is no reason in the world to believe that that position will ever change. 
The main matter concerning the Senate that I want to pursue at this stage is the argument that a multi-party, rather than a 2-party Senate is desirable in principle despite the minority balance of power situations to which it obviously lends itself. The argument is that minorities should be better and more specifically represented than the 2-party system allows. Perhaps that argument is right, although I would deny it. But if it is right, why stop there? Why not be consistent and adopt proportional representation - that is, the multi-party system for the House of Representatives as well? The answer is obvious and rests on the fragmentation, instability and indecisiveness which characterise every parliament which is elected on a proportional representation basis. 
To take only 2 examples, I refer to the Italian parliament and the French parliament in the period of the Fourth Republic. Both were elected under a system of proportional representation. The Italian parliament regularly included 9 parties and had 19 changes of government between 1945 and 1970. The French parliament of the Fourth Republic regularly included at least 7 parties and had no fewer than 26 changes of government in the 14 years to 1958. Such instability is inherent in electoral systems which favour multiparty results and make it certain that we would never adopt the system for the House of Representatives. 
The question which then arises is this: Why should we tolerate our present peculiar inconsistency - a 2-party system in the lower house where the government is formed and a multi-party system in the Senate where the Government can be harassed and even brought down? The answer normally advanced is like Winston Churchill's comment about democracy and Maurice Chevalier's about old ag It may be bad but it is better than the alternative. At it happens that is not true in this case because the argument normally rests on the false assumption that there is only one alternative to the present voting system for the Senate, and that is the system it replaced. The earlier system was an ordinary preferential system on a State-wide electorate and governments used to gain majorities such as 33 to 3 and 35 to one. That admittedly, would also be deplorable. 
But there is a third alternative available and that is the replacement of State-wide constituencies by 5 constituencies within each State, each constituency with 2 senators elected at alternate polls. The Constitution envisages such a system and empowers the Parliament to enact it. The voting system under such a scheme obviously would be preferential as for this House, and in addition to avoiding the problems of multi-party parliaments, such a change also would have the advantage of bringing senators more directly into contact with a particular constituency rather than the impossibly large Statewide constituencies they now in theory represent. The change proposed, as I have pointed out, is within the power of the Parliament and it would not require an amendment of the Constitution to achieve it. I believe we should be giving consideration to it. The alternative could well be an election every year and that would benefit no one, least of all the country. 
At this point I want to discuss some matters relating to the proceedings in this House. In some respects I follow on the comments of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  One does not have to be very acute, much less original, to observe that, in terms of decision making power, the Parliament might as well not be here. Some people become very upset when they realise that that is the position and they come up with all sorts of suggestions as to how some executive function might yet be vested in the Parliament. I believe, with respect to the people who think along those lines, that they are wasting their energy. In the system we have - a Cabinet system based on a disciplined 2 party system - we will never reach a stage like that. Accordingly, we would be much better employed using our energies along these lines to analyse what purposeful functions this Parliament does perform and then see whether we can improve them. 1 agree with the honourable member for Bradfield that one of the most important functions we can perform is that of a political forum. We are one of the very few forums of political debate in this country which can rely on consistent public attention. This makes it all the more unfortunate that the standards of our debates are so poor. The honourable member for Bradfield suggested that one of the reasons contributing to the poverty of our debating standards was the fact that we read our speeches. Frankly, I see the problem not so much as one of presentation as one of reception. As we all know, apart from question time we would not have 20 per cent of the members of this House in the chamber for 20 per cent of the time. I do not criticise that necessarily, but what I deplore is the absence from the chamber of members actually participating in any given debate. We simply do not listen to each other. The result, where opposing speakers are concerned, is thai any meaningful combative debate becomes literally impossible and where supporting speakers are concerned we end up, very often with endless and pointless repetition. I raise this matter only because it should be capable of reform fairly readily. 
Basically, the problem arises in practice from the fact that  Mr Speaker  accepts lists of speakers from each Party Whip and calls them strictly according to the list provided. I do not criticise the present  Speaker  in that respect. I understand that it is a tradition of the House that this procedure should be followed. But it is a bad tradition to follow and it is a bad procedure to have adopted in the first place. T believe that the discretion should be left with  Mr Speaker  as to who to call. Among other things, that would force all potential speakers in any given debate to listen to each other and would enable them to argue each with the other in some more substantial way than is now possible. It would also force more people to prepare themselves on subjects discussed than would necessarily have the opportunity to enter into the debate. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that hitherto it has been the policy of the Australian Government to discourage the investment of Australian funds overseas - for example, in neighbouring countries - for the cogent reason that we have been, in the nature of things, a capital importing country and have been chronically short of foreign reserves? Since these conditions are no longer as stringent as they were, has any review been undertaken by the Treasury to ascertain whether it might be advantageous to the Australian economy and future Australian trade to relax current restrictions, as may be appropriate, and perhaps even to hold out some incentives to Australian companies - I repeat, Australian companies - to invest at this time some capital in branch enterprises among our neighbours? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Services. I refer to proposals outlined in the Budget for the amelioration of the means test in respect of age pensions. Firstly, will the relevant Bill clarify the entitlement of annuitants, superannuitants and life tenants as well as others? Secondly, when will the Bill be introduced? Thirdly, what is the date from which it is intended to operate? Fourthly, if payments cannot be made immediately upon the relevant Bill coming into operation, will the increased pensions be backdated to that point of time? Finally, what is the latest date when applications will have to be lodged to attract the increased pensions from the outset, particularly by applicants not previously eligible for any pension at all? 
Will the Prime Minister give an assurance that the people's hard won savings, whether in life assurance offices or otherwise, will not bc forced directly or indirectly into national development projects chosen by governments, so enabling them to play political ducks and drakes with the people's money? In this connection, will the Prime Minister bear in mind the ill-fated Ord River scheme, originally fathered by a Labor Minister for National Development,  Mr Nelson  Lemmon, and finally welcomed on all sides of the Parliament without the careful cost/ benefit and other studies which would be required by a prudent investor? 
I can only express my astonishment at the paradoxical position taken up by both sides of the House on this matter. On the face of it, it would appear that the Government would have every interest in shortening the time of divisions, because it has a lot of legislation to put before this Parliament and one would suppose that it was anxious, therefore, to get that legislation through as quickly as possible. Why, therefore, should it lengthen the time of divisions? It is said, of course, that this is a temporary measure only. Many of us are aware of temporary things that seem to have an inevitable tendency to become permanent, and one can hardly accept that as a reason. But this is not the reason why I rose to speak. I rose to speak because there is a quite important principle involved here. The matter is not trivial. The manner in which we take divisions and the time taken for divisions form a very important part of the working of Parliament. There are those, I think like the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who speak about electronic counting in divisions, as is done, for example, in the United Nations. There is the English system of members passing through the lobbies and being counted as they pass through. Then we have our system here. 
One of the weapons, perhaps the only weapon, that an Opposition really has to insist upon being heard is the capacity to make use of the forms of the House to slow down the process of legislation, to block the Government, in effect to gum up the works. The time that is taken up, therefore, in divisions, among other things, or in having the count taken in a variety of ways is important to an Opposition because it is, as I say, the only way it can enforce upon the Government the right to be heard. It can make the working of the House so impossible that the government in the end prefers to let the Opposition have its say rather than make no progress at all because the Opposition uses the forms of the House, such as innumerable  divisions and a variety of other devices, to block and slow down legislation. Therefore, I repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech: I am astonished at the paradoxical position adopted by the 2 sides of the. House. I would have expected the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to wish to reduce the time taken  in divisions. I would have expected the Opposition to wish to increase the time taken in divisions. However, that has not happened. 
We have been told about loss of time. If loss of time in the taking of division were the only loss of time with which we had to contend in this place, I would think that not only we but also the public at large would be delighted. The loss of time that arises from futile debates on trivial matters lasting for hours is enormous compared with the trivial amount of time taken when the division bells ring for 2 or 3 minutes. As for dull broadcasting during the time when divisions are being taken, when all that people outside the place can hear over the air is coughing and sneezing and a murmur of voices, all I can say again is that if that were the only dullness with which the listening public had to put up from this place they would be delighted. Unfortunately, innumerable dull speeches going on for innumerable hours are the things that kill broadcasting from this place. We can forget about the time taken up by divisions. 
So I say, as I have always said, that the method we have for taking divisions - this would include the time they take - is an essential weapon for an opposition. When people have raised that apparently progressive idea of taking divisions by electronic means, I have opposed it for the very reason that I have mentioned. This is the only device that an opposition has. I believe I am right in saying that I am the only member on this side of the House who has even been a member of an opposition. It is for that reason and because I and my colleagues in another place used this method to gum up the works that I am astonished that the Leader of the House does not realise that he is doing something against what is patently in the interests of the Government Party. I have sat in divisions in another place during the Committee stage of a Bill when there were perhaps 30 clauses and on each of the 30 clauses there were 2 divisions, first on the gag and then on the clause. I have sat there for 2 hours, with the ringing of bells and the counting of votes and nothing else. That was done to protest against the Bill that was going through the House. 
We do not want to do that kind of thing here; I hope that we will be sensible. But I must repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech: I rose in my place to point out that the time taken in divisions involves an important principle and I, for one, stand for that time being as long as possible because I believe that this is the only weapon that an Opposition has. I hope that my colleagues will learn this. 
I ask the Minister for Labour whether he will elaborate his views on the inclusion of penalty provisions in respect of strikes, embodied in consent awards made by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I regret that  Mr Speaker  is not in the chair at the moment but I would ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to convey to him my congratulations on his being elevated to such a distinguished post. I have always believed that it would have been a good thing in this Parliament if we had followed the practice of the House of Commons by way of consultation between both sides of the House in regard to the appointment of a  Speaker.  But I wish to pay him this compliment, that had there been such consultation I believe that he would have been the unanimous choice of both sides of the House. I also wish lo congratulate the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  who has just delivered his maiden speech. I cannot compete with him in being the youngest member of the House but I recall that the great William Pitt on making his first speech at the age of 21 said: 'The atrocious crime of being young I shall seek neither to palliate nor deny'. The honourable member for Denison may be assured that the years will soon remedy this defect if he believes it to be so. I wish him, of course, a short but also a happy period in this House. 
We are now engaged in a debate on the Governor-General's Speech, that is to say, the program of the Government. There has been a great deal of talk ever since the House met about the mandate that the Government has to put into effect its various election promises. I want to say a few words about the concept of mandate. Does a majority of, say, 2i per cent of the total electorate justify - and I quote the words used in the GovernorGeneral's Speech - 'a program . . . designed to achieve basic changes in . . . -the structure of Australian society in the lifetime of this Parliament'. It took a war and a defeat in war for the basic social structure of Russia to be changed. Are we to be told that a majority of  2i  per cent of the Australian electorate justifies basic changes in the structure of the Australian society? I hope that this is mere rhetoric because if it is meant seriously there will be a great deal of trouble before such a mandate is put into effect. 
I come down to more practical aspects. Does it justify the implementation of every item in a policy speech? If it does, does it justify every detail in a Bill giving effect to a particular item stated in general terms? Such a proposition is, of course, patent!*- absurd because people vote not on the basis of several scores of promises on a whole variety of subjects; they vote for a party perhaps because they believe in its general philosophy, perhaps because they think it has the best leader available or perhaps because they believe in some particular part or parts of its policies or on the more vague and general ground that 'it's time' or something of this kind. But to say that they vote for every item - scores of items - that are put out in a policy speech is manifest nonsense. Secondly, I say - because that speaks for itself - that such a concept is completely undemocratic because the program emerges from a body - in this case the Labor Party - which represents perhaps half or even less than half of the electorate. How can it be said that it is democratic that a program that proceeds from half the people of Australia has the sanction of the whole of the people of Australia? 
Be patient. In fact, Parliament is the only democratic body in this nation, not the Conference of the Labor Party or any conference of the Liberal Party or any other conference. The only democratic body in this country that stands for the whole of the people of Australia is this Parliament because it represents not half but all of the people. Every member on this side of the House has a mandate just as every member on the other side has. My mandate is rather different from the mandate that others may have. It is the electors who give us our mandate. Again, because it is the only body whose members are elected and can have their mandates withdrawn by all the people, so it is the Parliament which is the only democratic body. When I listened to honourable members opposite telling us that the Labor Party is democratic and therefore it has a mandate from the people of Australia, this is manifest nonsense. I would like to quote a few words uttered by Edmund Burke some time ago, on 3rd November 1774, but they still state the principle quite authoritatively. He said: 
Parliament is not a congress of ambassadors from different and hostile interests; which interests each must maintain as an agent and advocate, against other agents and advocates; but parliament is a deliberative assembly of one nation, with one interest, that of the whole; where, not local purposes, not local prejudices ought to guide, but the general good, resulting from the general reason of the whole. 
If Parliament is not a deliberative assembly it is nothing. Is there any member in this House who has not at some time or another held some view and then gone to a conference, taken part in a discussion and modified that view by reason of the arguments that he has heard? He has been guided by reason. If that is not so, debates in this House are a sheer mockery. But this is a deliberative assembly and it represents the whole of the nation. It is the only democratic body in this country. So let us have no more of this nonsense about a mandate for every one of scores of items in the Government's program. Let us have no more nonsense along the lines that because the Labor Party is said to be democratic therefore it has a mandate from the people of Australia. It has no such thing. Whether it is democratic in its own organisation 1 do not know and cannot accept. It may be; it may not be. That is quite immaterial to my argument. 
Now I want to underline 4 points in Burke's statement. He says that Parliament is not just a meeting - he used the word 'congress' of course - of hostile interests. He says that it is not just a meeting of tied delegates - 'agents' he calls them - deaf to reason, but it is a deliberative assembly where arguments are heard and if they are good arguments they should prevail. There is no reason why a Minister should not accept, for example, amendments that obviously commend themselves to reason and common sense and which seek the general or common good. What we have is not this at all. It is beyond all this, lt is above this, lt is superior to it. We have advanced. Progress has taken place. 
What we have is not, as Abraham Lincoln put it, government of the people by the people and for the people. We have government of the whole people by a section of the people for that section of the people, and that is not democracy. 
Perhaps we have advanced beyond those old-fashioned notions, but the people at large are a little old-fashioned in this respect. They think that Parliament still matters and that it should be a deliberative assembly. Honourable members opposite fly in the face of these oldfashioned notions at their peril. This truth remains as solid as a rock. When a party forgets the other half of the nation it soon loses office. That is always in the background. Even if the Government chooses to say in this House: 'We will do this' because the Opposition does not have the numbers to prevent it, when it goes back to the electorate it will be told where to get off if, in doing what it had the numbers to do, it has ignored one half of the whole people. The basis of parliamentary democracy is that there is concern for the interests of all the people, that minorities really matter. It is not a matter of the dictatorship by the proletariat, dictatorship by the Labor Party or dictatorship by anybody else. The whole essence of parliamentary government is that it is government of the people by the people's elected representatives. 
I now turn from the concept of mandate to the style of the government since it came into office. To put it in a phrase, since this Government came into office we have had a presidential style of government. I want to examine that concept briefly in the time available to me. First we began with a duumvirate - 2 men - like a  president  and a vice-president. They were in no hurry to meet congress - that is, the Parliament. This is typical of the American style of government. The  President  can do things without bothering about Congress. That is part of the new style in this country. We have seen communication direct between the Prime Minister and the people through Press conferences and other media, this by the new  President  of the republic of Australia. He was in no hurry to summon Parliament together, and questions were put to him, not by gentlemen sitting in this House - oh no - but by Pressmen. And it was a splendid performance. Why? Because they were able to follow up their questions in depth, whereas in this place it is impossible to do so. Our question time is a farce. It permits of no supplementary questions. Nothing can be pursued in depth. The first question may relate to Aborigines, the next to the state of the economy and the third one to immigration. There is no examination in depth. Of course, this is very different in the presidential system where Ministers or officials as they call them may be summoned before Senate committees and really cross-examined as they would be cross-examined in court. At any rate this is an improvement as far as Press conferences are concerned. But if honourable members can see one yard in front of their noses, which I sometimes doubt, they will realise that the forum is moving from this place to another part of the building. If the Government is happy about that, let it rejoice but the people will have reason to sorrow. 
We have also seen the burgeoning of a kind of White House staff. The  President  in America may choose his own assistants, and we have seen the beginning of this with the appointment not of permanent public servants but of people brought in from the outside. It may be good; it may be bad. In many respects I think it is bad. But at any rate it is another part of the presidential system. Also we have a White House in Canberra, the Lodge, where a little while ago a Jackie Kennedy kind of performance was held with concert singers and delightful dinky-di comedy, ending in a thoroughly Australian fashion with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions playing 'The Red Flag'. That was a real dink-di touch. Let me refer now to the San Clemente in Sydney. The' Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has taken over Kirribilli House which was intended for VIP visitors to Australia. I am not particularly stressing these last 2 matters. I am not unduly concerned about the White House here or San Clemente in Sydney. What I am saying is that they are part and parcel of, and illustrate, the development of a presidential style of government - these in a very small way; the  other  things in a very big way. 
The point I want to make concerns the danger of having a  president  without congress as a brake. The whole constitutional system of the United States of America rests on the fact that the American people, not without the best of reasons, have the utmost suspicion of people who wield power. Therefore, when they constructed their Constitution they provided checks and balances. The  President  could veto a Bill coming from Congress and Congress could refuse money to the  President  to carry out some proposal or other. I will not go into all this beyond saying that a very dangerous situation arises if a presidential system is developed in Australia without a countervailing congress. When there is slavish support for a leader - this is our dinky-di Australian system, God help us - and that leader assumes the position of an American  president,  then a very dangerous situation arises, leading in the long run to some kind of autocracy. Let there be no mistake about that. And it is the more dangerous when, Parliament having been thrown entirely into the background and regarded as a rubber stamp or something that does not matter, that  president  is told what he shall do by a Labor Conference outside this House. There is a conjunction of circumstances, with this power in the hands of one man, a front man to deal directly with the people, and his being told what he shall do by somebody unelected, outside this House. I do not propose to enlarge upon this matter. It was done very well late this afternoon by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and by other honourable members. 
lt is very easy to laugh at this point of time but the people of Australia may ultimately cry. Some good things have been done by the Government. It has placed some emphasis on our emerging national spirit and sense of national identity. If I am not one of the youngest members at least I am a sixth generation Australian and I applaud this attitude. But the principles upon which one acts and the way in which one acts upon the principles may be very different things. 
Let me turn for a moment to the field of our foreign relations. It may well be desirable, and I believe it is, that we should establish diplomatic relations with China. But as soon as the Government got into office, it was in a tremendous hurry and flurry to recognise China. Very often the right things are done in the wrong way. The recognition took place on terms unfavourable to us compared with the terms that were given by Peking to Canada, for example. This decision was made without consulting our neighbours in South East Asia. They had reason to delay their recognition. ' 
Then the Prime Minister proceeded to permit senior Ministers to insult the Americans. This astonishes me because the Prime Minister is not an ignorant man and he must, therefore, take the more blame for this. He knows or he should know - I do not know how naive or ignorant he is - that the  President  of the United States combines in his person the sovereign, as we have our King or Queen, and the Prime Minister. He is not just a Prime Minister and, as some American remarked at the time: 'If you insult the  President  of the United States, you will certainly get on to the front page of the "New York Times" '. There is a certain feeling regarding insults to the  President  that would be regarded as lese majeste if applied to the Queen, lt is almost treasonable in a sense to insult the  President  of the United States. He is much more than a Prime Minister. The Australian Prime Minister should have known that. Either he is ignorant or naive - I do not know which - but it was not like attacking the Premier of Victoria. 
We suffered for this, and these personal things are not readily forgotten. We are all human. Do not let it be thought for a moment, as honourable gentlemen opposite think, that nations always consider national interest in the abstract and that is all. People are human and they have feelings and these things come through in international relations as they do in relations between parties and between individuals. Let there be no mistake about this. 
Then, the United Kingdom was insulted. I think the honourable gentleman who is now at the table, the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  had things to say about the admission of British migrants to Australia. They were to be put in the same category as people who came from Hong Kong or somewhere else. 
Well, perhaps it was some non-British country. 
Of course, this is extraordinarily amusing to honourable members opposite. Shakespeare was an amusing man too. Let honourable members opposite laugh now. In some very good advice that an old gentleman in one of his plays gave, Shakespeare said: 'The friends thou hast and their_?ic2 tion tried, Grapple them to thy heart with hoops of steel'. So, what have we done? We have rebuffed the friends with whom we have fought two great wars. 
That is totally irrelevant. Then the Prime Minister went to Indonesia to construct a great new alliance. Again, he was either ignorant or naive. He should have known that Indonesia, with its 120 million people, regards itself as the premier nation in this region and for the Australian Prime Minister to go to Indonesia and suggest that Australia should construct some other organisation - Australia, of course, being the originator and the king pin in the organisation - and think that this would be acceptable to Indonesia is idiotic. Furthermore, to suggest that that new combination of nations should include Peking when the Indonesians had had a rather sad experience with the Chinese Communists was, as I have said, either naive or ignorant. 
So, the Prime Minister has insulted all our good friends. He has tried to be a great man in South East Asia and has fallen flat on his face. He even tried to mislead journalists as to what in fact happened in Indonesia. But that is another story for another time. Unfortunately, I do not have time to deal with a number of other matters. But this is sufficient. 
We are debating the Bill which was introduced by the Government to give the vote to young people aged 18, 19 and 20. This Bill is being supported by the Opposition. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  imputed to members on this side of the House hypocrisy. I feel that that word is one of the words which should be struck from the parliamentary vocabulary because it smells so much of the ancient forms of party strife and because it has become meaningless. Like the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  some years ago I supported the principle of lowering the voting age for the very simple reason that I felt that young people, instead of being compelled, because of a lack of another means of expressing their views, to indulge in violence and protest should be integrated into the parliamentary system, should have the opportunity to convince fellow citizens that their views were right, should be able to elect members to the Parliament and should be able to bring about by parliamentary means the reforms they desired. The reason, as I say, was perfectly plain and simple, and for years I have supported this move. 
I want to make only one point in the 10 minutes that are permitted to me. When a young person votes at the age of 18 he does not at that point of time suddenly become armed with all the wisdom, knowledge, and perhaps, prejudices, of an older voter. He does not, as it were, as in the myth, spring fully armed out of the head of Zeus. He has obviously acquired some of that knowledge, some of that wisdom and some of those prejudices before he attained the age of 18. It is with this small but important point that I wish to deal in the short time permitted to me. Already we have had reference from the honourable member for Bowman, and I think from one other  speaker,  to the fact that the Leader of the Australian Country Party a short time ago indicated that he felt his Party should establish branches in high schools, universities and so forth. There was a statement two or three months before that from the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party to this effect: Radical teachers were now being placed in positions where they could brainwash impressionable children. Of course we all remember the period prior to and during World War II when the Germans had established their Jugend or youth movement, and the Russians then had in being and still have in being their Konsomol or youth movement. This is obviously a sensitive area, that is, an area in which young people can be influenced in their political attitudes, and indeed their whole attitude to society. I think it was Saint Ignatius of Loyola who expressed the view that if he, representing the Society of Jesus, the Jesuits, had a child from the age of 7 he could bend him in the direction in which he would go for the rest of his life. So this is a sensitive area, and it is the area with which in a brief time I wish to deal. 
There is some guidance on this matter from the controversy that arose in Britain a short time ago when the vote for young people of 18, 19 and 20 was introduced in that country. At that stage Professor Crick of Birkbeck College, part of the University of London, brought together a conference of 600 teachers of . politics, civics and constitutional subjects to deal with the teaching of young people who would very shortly, in a year or two afterwards, have the vote. Subsequently he brought together under his chairmanship representatives of the British political parties. In short the matter was investigated in a systematic fashion. Quite obviously the parties interested in this matter are the schools themselves, the teachers of these subjects in the schools and, I would say, the government authorities themselves. Of course they also introduced the idea of a watchdog to see that the balance was properly held, that there was not indoctrination simply one way or the other way. They were able to call upon the Hansard Society to perform this most important function and likewise the teachers whom Professor Crick had brought together. 
These are the parties involved, and I suggest that as the 18-year-old vote is now imminent the Australian Education Council, that is to say the body of Federal and State Ministers for Education, should give earnest consideration to it, that the leaders of the political parties should be involved in this, and the authorities that conduct the schools, whether they be State education authorities or authorities governing private schools; and, of course, the teachers themselves are concerned with the integration into their courses on government of politicians with due balance being preserved. Where you find the watchdog I am not sure, but I am quite certain that this is what is now requied as a preliminary to this widening of the franchise. I am glad to see that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is in the House at this time, as indeed I would expect him to be because I know his tremendous interest in all matters that affect directly or indirectly his portfolio. 
I would hope that when the parties whom I have enumerated are brought together and have given consideration to this matter a report might be laid on the table of this House so that all might see the result of their deliberations and their proposals. I would further hope that from time to time, perhaps on a regular basis annually, the body that is set up to supervise this operation - that is, the teaching of government, politics, call it what you like, to children in the 2 or 3 years preceding age 18 in the schools - will report to this Parliament. I have been given precisely 10 minutes to say a few words. They have had to be a few words. I finish where I began by saying that this principle has had my support for a number of years. I throw back in the face of the honourable member for Bowman his charge of hypocrisy and I believe that as a consequence of this development the Ministers for Education should get together along the lines that I have suggested. 
I apologise to you,  Mr Speaker,  for having broken in before you proposed the question. I simply wish to say that I accept the amendment. 
Yes-. Technically I am speaking to the amendment. I do not want to say more than a few words. I am glad that this motion has been put forward by me representing age and by my seconder representing youth. It comes very well recommended to the House from both points of view. 
I move: 
That a joint select committee be appointed to inquire into and report on: 
whether the televising of portion of the parliamentary debates and proceedings is desirable, and 
if so, to what extent and in what manner the telecasts should be undertaken. 
Is there a seconder? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave of the House to present the report of the Australian Branch Delegation to the eighteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference held at Blantyre, Malawi, during October 1972 and to make a brief statement in connection with it. 
The Minis  ter for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  sat down and said he would not continue to answer an earlier question with regard to which I had raised a point of order.  Mr Speaker,  the matter still stands in the record of Hansard as an answer which you allowed.  Sir, I  wish to dissent from that ruling and not to leave it in Hansard as it stands, because I believe that the time has come when irrelevant answers by Ministers must be curbed.  Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
I second the motion. First, I think we should remind ourselves what the motion provides. In part it states: 
. if the means test on social services is not abolished for all persons aged 65 and over by the time of the next Budget, then - 
a further substantial relaxation should be provided in the next Budget. 
The Government should announce its scheduled program for total abolition with the least possible delay. 
Total abolition of this means test should not be made conditional upon or involved with the implementation of other social service proposals of the Government. 
I entirely support the motion moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who. as the Minister for Social Services in the previous Government and. indeed, long before he became so, has shown an intelligent and sensitive regard for the problems of old people. I am indeed honoured to support him. It is most important that something should be done promptly. All of us grow older, but the expectation of rife of old people is much less than that of others and what is not done today, tomorrow r the day after may have no significance to them. For this reason it is most important that something substantial should be done at least in the next Budget. 
I believe that the promise that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  should not be delayed by reason of complicated proposals for national superannuation schemes or for a scheme of guaranteed minimum incomes as announced by the Government. The preparation of such plans will take a long time. The administration will be complicated. By this time, as Keynes once remarked, in the long run we are all dead. It is certainly true of many of those people who hope to have some improvement in their situation as old people. 
I believe that we first need a flat rate pension with inducements for people to save beyond the limit that should be available to all at the age of 65 years and it should be adjusted to take account of inflation. It should be a reasonable proportion of average earnings in order to keep pace to some extent with the growing prosperity of the community. I believe that these are the ingredients of a satisfactory scheme. What are the questions to be asked? Is it desirable that the means test should be abolished? If so, is it practicable to do so within a limited time? Would it be just to both the rich and the poor, because all would become beneficiaries on the abolition of the means test? I do not propose to go into any detail about whether it is desirable. On many occasions the honourable member for Mackellar has stated the reasons. I will say simply that as it now stands the means test is inequitable because it deprives people of the benefit of their own thrift and efforts. It discourages people from saving and taking casual and part-time work, even when a tapered means test is in operation. It is humiliating and invites cheating. It dictates an undesirable pattern in the preferred expenditure of old people; for example, on expensive homes, cars, trips abroad and things of that kind. I propose to say no more about the means test because these points have been covered on many occasions. 
The next point is whether substantial immediate relief is practicable. I do not propose to spend time on this point. The honourable member for Mackellar was Minister for Social Services and has taken a tremendous interest in social welfare over a long time. I remember him first as financial adviser to the New South Wales Treasury. I think all honourable members are aware of his abilities. 
I am prepared to accept what he has said after careful study, that it is a practical move. I do not propose to spend any more time in dealing with that part of the matter. 
Would it be just to the rich as well as to the poor, or to the poor as well as to the rich if the means test were abolished? It is proposed by the honourable member for Mackellar that any additional income paid to people by reason of the availability of the pension, whether rich or poor, would be subject to the progressive income tax rates so that the rich would not gain very much. I want to make some general observations and then to deal in more detail with the question of inflation in relation to the provision that old people may wish to make for their retirement. I will take about 2 minutes to make some general observations. It was inflation in Germany that brought Hitler to power. This had quite an important impact on the world. 
Within the last 6 months the London 'Economist' has pointed out that if inflation continues at the present rate in England, 1 will be worth a penny within the span of an ordinary person's working life. The same very sober journal believes that if this situation continues Britain will finish with a political system similar to that of a South American republic. They are expressions of opinion of a very sober and responsible journal. We are treading precisely the same path. The inflation of recent years is now accelerating and we could finish up facing the situation that Britain faces today. I shall be dealing with this aspect in relation to the provision of people for their old age. Taking the Australian situation, the calculation of the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library is that the Australian dollar, if prices continue to change at the present rate of 6.8 per cent per annum, will be in 40 years time the equivalent of 7 cents in value. The Australian dollar will fall to a value of 7 cents within an ordinary working lifetime, on the assumption that the rate of inflation does not increase beyond the present annual rate of 6.8 per cent. I believe that it will increase and that we will face the situation that applies in Britain today. 
What is the bearing of this factor upon the attempts of people to save for their retirement? Does inflation affect retired people who tried to make provision for their old age in retirement? As to the rich, we need not worry very much about them. They have their own way. 
Professor Samuelson, a very distinguished visitor to these shores a short time ago, said in a television interview that the rich look after themselves by buying real property, equities and such non-inflatable assets as paintings, jewellery and so forth, and by going into debt. I shall explain that in a moment. The rich also engage in deals of various kinds. We have seen a lot of this in the field of company shares in recent times. 
One hedge against inflataion is the purchase of real property. Most people gain tremendously on the purchase of their homes. I have here a table prepared by the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library and I ask for leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
The calculation shows that the original repayments on a loan for purchase of a home may cost a man 29.5 per cent of his average weekly income. At the end of 30 years the repayments are 1.7 per cent of his average weekly earnings, assuming continuation of the present rate of acceleration. The table explains in detail why it is a very good proposition to buy a home. Of course, it has to be remembered that while it is good for most people who buy a home it is bad for those people who rent homes so that any surplus money they may try to invest, for example, in permanent building societies, suffers erosion just as people gain from that erosion in the purchase of their homes. 
The other hedge to which Professor Samuelson referred is investment in equities. 
This may be done by individuals trying to save for their retirement through assurance societies that may invest in equities, or superannuation funds which may make the same type of investment. I have before me another table prepared by the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library showing what happens in the case of investment half in shares and half in debentures, in terms of capital value and, income first in  1962  and then in  1?72; that fi  over a  10-year  period. I ask leave of the House to incorporate the table in Hansard. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the House. As a member with an individual responsibility in this matter, I ask the honourable gentleman whether he is aware of the fact that the period of gestation of the Abortion Bill in England was at least 9 months from the time of its conception as a Bill presented to the House until its final birth as an Act of Parliament. Does he regard 31 hours of debate as an efficient means of dealing with a social question of very' great importance to a very large section of the Australian community or should it rather be seen as a travesty of democratic parliamentary government? I ask the honourable gentlemen in all sincerity whether he and his Party will reconsider the implications of such a farcically and tragically truncated debate, precluding all but a handful of members from expressing their views and debarring them from the opportunity of putting and voting on vital amendments, even to the second reading of the Bill, quite apart from a Committee stage which may never happen. 
I will express myself in a few words. I do not think this debate needs a great deal of elaboration. This is not a new found enthusiasm of mine for adequate parliamentary debate. This is a point of view I have adopted for years, even against my own Party when it was in office. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to accept that I speak now with sincerity and not for party advantage. I appreciate that that may be regarded as a stupid and unusual thing to do in this House. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has excused what he has done on the basis of a list he produced a few minutes ago showing the time allotted for amendment of industrial arbitration Bills over a period of 20 years. It is most important for us to realise that the Bill before us represents a fundamental change in the law, and the kind of argument produced by the Leader of the House has no validity whatever in this instance. 
Already the point has been made that the time allotted on the last occasion of a fundamental change in industrial arbitration legislation was twice as much as the time allotted on this occasion. The Leader of the House has fulfilled my belief in what has happened to the Parliament. It has become  a  mere rubber stamp for the Executive and is not the great forum of the nation where debate is carried on. This Parliament has handed over that function to the Press, television and other media which seek simply to entertain and not to debate. This is a decline and fall of this institution which is signalised with peculiar emphasis on the present occasion. 
Question put: 
That the  motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
Yes. I am very glad indeed to have the privilege of seconding the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  I want to pay my tribute at the outset to my friend and colleague the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He was equally ready and indeed anxious to second the motion and I am indebted to his generosity of spirit that the privilege has fallen to me. I should also like to pay a tribute to those who have produced this Bill in the House, because they have faced a real issue that exists and will continue to exist no matter how this House votes and because they have obviously put so much effort and research into their contributions. The House is indebted to them for this. 
One does not make up one's mind on an issue of this kind without very deep and anxious thought. Indeed, I have not had occasion for a very long time to give my mind so unremittingly to a problem as I have to this one, and at last I have come to a conclusion. Should one put one's own views as an individual or should one defer to those whom one represents? We have all had literally hundreds of letters, mostly on one side. Are we to assume from this that these are the views of our constituents and have we any right to fly in the face of the views so expressed? 
T believe that it is the responsibility of a member to make up his own mind, but not to ignore c- ompletely the wishes of the community. I have not tried to ascertain these by counting letters. I have in my hand the result of a gallup poll published in the 'Adelaide Advertiser' on 8th May 1973 - 3 days ago. From this poll it appears that 23 per cent of the people polled believe that abortion should be legal in all circumstances, that is, abortion on request. Twenty per cent believe that abortion should be legal in cases of exceptional hardship, either physical, mental or social. Twenty-one per cent believe that abortion should be legal if the mother's health, either physical or mental, is in danger. Nineteen per cent believe that abortion should be legal only if the mother's life is in serious danger, and 13 per cent believe that abortion should not be legal in any circumstances. 
It is quite clear from this that with various gradations an overwhelming majority of people believe that there should be some provision for abortion, running at one end of the scale from the mere wish or the request under any circumstances to a much more restrictive point of view. I merely mention this from the point of view of my own conscience as to whether I should fly in the face of my constituents' views. I, myself, have no doubt at all that there should be provision for abortion under proper circumstances. But I am glad that I do not have to fly in the face of my constituents and this community as a whole. I mention it for that purpose only - not that it determines my vote but it leaves me free to exercise my own judgment. 
What are the courses open to all honourable members in this House? Firstly, we can vote for the Bill. Secondly, we can vote against the Bill. Thirdly, we can vote for an amendment. Indeed, in the time available to us probably there is only one choice as regards amendments, namely, to vote for that moved by the honourable member for Casey. I cannot vote for the Bill, basically for 2 reasons. First of all, I cannot accept abortion on request, which is provided for in the first part of the Bill. It may be that a time will come when the mores of the community are such that it would be regarded as an antisocial act for a woman to seek an abortion unless for due and proper reason. For example, a thoroughly healthy woman with a small family and more or less unlimited financial resources would not dream of seeking an abortion simply because she would prefer to have, say, a Mercedes car. 
But for the time t=ing it may well be that there should be some brake upon abortion on request. In another generation this may be unnecessary; at present it may be essential. The second reason why I cannot accept or vote for the Bill is because it deals with only one aspect of the problem; that is, abortion, which I regard as a failure of contraception. 
The former English Lord Chancellor, Lord Gardiner, was in Australia a short time ago. 
He said that while he had supported a similar Bill in the House of Commons he felt that every case of abortion amounted really to a failure to use contraceptive measures. I take the view that the Bill does not deal really seriously with this matter at all. I know there are one or two clauses which deal with this aspect but the provision is not enough. However, the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey covers all the associated problems that are the very essence of the whole problem. What these are I shall come to shortly. 
I come to the second choice. I would prefer not to have to vote against the Bill because if the Bill is defeated it could well mean the sweeping of this problem under the carpet for a long time to come. This was my first belief, that it would do so. But my second thoughts on the matter suggest that the question will not indeed be swept under the carpet. Those who think that they can remove the matter from the business paper today, I think, will find that it persists and haunts them in the end. It cannot be avoided. The problem is there and it will remain. It cannot, by a clever vote, simply be swept under the carpet in the House or in the community. But I would rather not vote against the Bill because it would indicate that I had no thoughts about doing something in regard to this problem, and I do wish something done about the problem. 
Unfortunately, if the amendment is defeated then I am confronted with voting for or against the Bill, which is a false antithesis for me. I shall now try to explain the amendment so that honourable members may understand it. It provides for a royal commission. A royal commission has power to summon witnesses and call for papers. It can obtain all the evidence it requires. The  chairman  is to be a Supreme Court justice. First - I think the honourable member for Casey does not mind my saying so - he was considering a royal commission that would not include a judge. I felt that a judge was essential because we are concerned with ascertaining facts. I will come to this point in a moment. The royal commission is to have a majority of women members. After all, this matter affects women. 
Here we are, a Parliament of all men; there is not a single woman in this chamber. Yet women are obviously intimately concerned with this matter. So the amendment provides for the royal commission to have a majority of women members. For those who say that this amendment is a cunning device to sidetrack the matter, I point out that the proposed royal commission is to report within 12 months. So those honourable members who say that this proposal is just a trick so that the matter is disposed of should remember that the matter will come back before the Parliament. In the end a report has to be presented and again they will have to face the issue, not in ignorance but with knowledge. I hope that no members of this House will take the view that they ought not to be confused with facts. Let us look at the details of the amendment proposed. Firstly how many abortions are performed each year in Australia and what are the characteristics of the women who are aborted and the circumstances in which abortions occur? We have no knowledge of these things. Why are they aborted? Is it because of poverty, because they are not married and a child would cause them embarrassments or because they are married and have too many children? What are the reasons? We do not know and we do not know how many abortions take place, either. Surely it would not confuse us very much to know the facts, for a start. What are the dimensions and the characteristics of the problem? 
Secondly, what are the consequences of abortion for women who are aborted? Do they become, as some have suggested, neurotic people because they have been aborted? As a matter of fact, most of the evidence is the other way. What is the effect on medical practitioners performing abortion procedures? Gynaecologists do not like abortions, of course. What is the effect upon the police of inquiring into alleged abortions? Does it corrupt them in enforcing the law? What is its effect upon the community as a whole? Does it mean, as the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley ) has suggested that the community becomes so callous that it becomes like the German doctors who operated upon living adult people? I do not believe that it does, but we should look at the consequences of abortion. Is it going to make the entire community callous? Personally, I do not believe it will, but let us find out what has happened in countries where such things have happened. 
Thirdly, what are the courses open to women who carry through unwanted pregnancies and what are the consequences of each course for the mother and for the child? The woman may be married or unmarried, but she keeps the child. What happens then? Does she find the struggle for existence such as to be almost intolerable? She could have the child adopted. How does she feel about that? Does she forever afterwards feel a sense of guilt that she has not kept the child or is she quite happy about it. Supposing the child happens to be a child of mixed race and nobody wants to adopt it and it goes into an institution and the mother has to think of what happens to an unloved child in an institution. These are factual matters. Fourthly, how effective are the laws on abortion in the Australian Capital Territory, in the States and in countries comparable with Australia? What alternatives to the law of the Australian Capital Territory are offered by laws in other places and what are the likely medical, social and economic effects associated with each alternative? 
I have in my hand a book by a psychiatrist, Anthony Horden, entitled 'Legal Abortion: The English Experience'. It is the most objective and informative book on any subject that 1 have found for a very long time. Now there is to be a report by a  Mrs Justice  Lane of the English High Court - from the old probate, divorce and admiralty division of the High Court. 1 have not had time to read her qualifications here, but her report will be issued within the next 2 months. Are we going to legislate without paying regard to the experience that the British people have had over four or five years and to the review by a woman of that kind regarding the operations of that Act? I hope not. "Fifthly, in what ways can the incidence of abortion be reduced by improving services and facilities, such as sex education in schools, family planning clinics, supply of contraceptives, pregnancy support agencies, adoption agencies and social security payments? Most of these were mentioned by the Minister for Education and have been mentioned by other members in the House. They go to the very heart of the matter. Are we going to pass a Bill dealing purely with abortion and not consider all these related subjects which might induce a girl to keep or not to keep her child? I would hope not. I would hope that this House would not be so irresponsible. I could refer to other matters that may be thought to be relevant. 
I want to make this perfectly clear: Of course there are some things that a royal com mission can do and some that it cannot do. I have spoken about the things that it can do. These are factual matters and deeply relevant to the question in hand without which, 11 suggest, nobody can reach a proper conclusion based on realities and on facts. But I acknowledge that there are other things that a royal commission cannot do. There are 2 extreme views on this issue. One is that the foetus is a human being from the moment of conception. I do not know when an acorn becomes an oak and I am not going to enter into debate on that kind of issue. No royal commission can call evidence or reach conclusions on a matter of that kind. 
On the other extreme there are the people who say that a woman has an absolute right to have pregnancy terminated, even for the most transitory reason of selfish personal convenience. I do not think any of us are permitted to do that kind of thing. I do not think even men are permitted to do whatever they like without proper reasons if their actions affect other people. There are some things a royal commission can do and some that it cannot do. I acknowledge the things it cannot do. These will be matters of belief or conviction on different sides. But is this any reason why nothing should be done at all that can be done? Is it any reason why those things that can be ascertained should not be ascertained and why members should not be able to come to a conclusion on the basis of such relevant facts as can be ascertained? As the honourable member for Casey said very rightly, a royal commission of this kind can educate those who have open minds on this matter - that is, those who do not start with some a priori conviction, but who still have open minds as to how and to what extent the popular will can be carried into effect in this matter - the guidelines that should be laid down and the ancillary provisions about which I have spoken. Such a royal commission can inform the public. 
In England the Bill was introduced at a certain time and it did not become law until, I think, 15 months afterwards. In the Committee stage alone - I hope that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is listening to this; I do not know where he is - they had 15 meetings twice weekly and they finished with a 27 hours continuous session, the longest for 30 years in the House of Commons. Meanwhile, during that 15 months from the time the Bill was introduced until it received the royal assent, there was public debate. The medical people, the social workers and everybody with special knowledge or interest was able to discuss these matters in the Press and the learned journals. Here we are reaching a decision in  3i  hours. There is only one way in which there can be proper public education so that everybody, including members of this Parliament, knows what the Bill is all about, apart from those matters of fundamental belief which no royal commission or anybody else can influence. This is the only way in which that process of education can be carried out in this country, as it was done in England by another means. 
I want to say a few words about the national anthem for Australia. I am a fifth generation Australian and one who is as conscious of being a member of this nation as any other member of this House or this country. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  claims that he has a mandate to introduce a new national anthem of some kind. Of course he made many promises during the election campaign, and I always regard these claims about a mandate with some reserve. A Party cannot be said to have a mandate for hundreds of different promises that may be made in the course of an election campaign. That the question of a new national anthem, a matter of great consequence for the people of Australia for a long time to come, should be introduced as part of an election campaign and, one might say, really as a gimmick - because the campaign was conducted very largely on lines associated with foreign investment and in a general atmosphere of chauvinism - taints the production of a national anthem. Later, I think on 26th January of this year, before the House met the quest for a new national anthem was announced in a statement by the Prime Minister. It was not announced in a statement made in this House nor did it follow any debate in this House. The Parliament had nothing to do with it. There should have been attempts at some bipartisan approach, since this is something that should be acceptable to the whole nation and not introduced in any partisan sense. It should have been introduced after discussion in the proper way in the Parliament of this nation. 
It is an irony that in a 10 minute speech on the adjournment an obscure Opposition back bencher should have to make a speech at the end of the day's business on a matter of this kind when the main object of this debate is to voice constituents' gievences and for that matter indeed, I do voice a grievance. We are to have a competition and pundits are to choose several tunes and they are to be played over the air by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and people will say which they would like to have as a national anthem. People will say: 'What do you think of that one, Mary? Rather a nice tune, isn't it'? That apparently is the way we will choose a national anthem. 
The Prime Minister has made a gibe about the present national anthem being a tune chosen by George II. It was something that he liked. I can imagine the honourable gentleman saying that perhaps he showed better taste in that than in other things that he liked. Actually, 'God Save the Queen' or God Save the King' is a traditional song known long before George II had ever heard it. It is associated with thousands of great and noble occasions in the course of Britain's history, her rough island story. It is much more than some song that George II liked. It had associated with it many great and noble occasions. But that is for the British. 
The 'Marseillaise' was composed as a marching song in 1792 when the French Republic which had recently been formed at the time of the revolution was fighting for its very existence against foreign invaders and particularly against the Austrians. It was composed as a marching song for the volunteers from Marseilles who took their part in throwing back those who would have destroyed the Republic. Those were the conditions in which the 'Marseillaise* was born in 1792. 'Star Spangled Banner' was composed in 1814 and was long a popular patriotic song in the United States, long before Congress enacted that it should be a national anthem as late as 1931. I imagine that it became known, particularly abroad in France, in 1918 when the Americans entered World War I. 
So far as 'Waltzing Matilda' is concerned, let me say one or two words. It has, of course, rather raffish words. This is not entirely alien to the character of the Australian people, and I would not suggest that those words were appropriate for a national anthem. I want to say a word about the tune as well as the words. Wherever Australians are gathered together and are conscious of being Australians, of their sense of nationhood and of belonging together - whether they are in Damascus, Tobruk or Earls Court - there is one tune that is known not only to Australians everywhere but to people outside Australia, and that is 'Waltzing Matilda'. I remember it very well during World War II, when we were being convoyed across the Indian Ocean by the Australian cruiser 'Canberra' when 4 transports were handed over to the 'Ajax' and another British ship for convoy purposes. I can remember the Canberra' sailing down between the convoys; and what was her band playing? 'Advance Australia Fair' or some other nice tune that Mary might like? No; it was playing 'Waltzing Matilda', and I felt thrilled and proud that there were other Australians abroad, as we were, in a warlike situation. 
I do not want to say any more about this except that the anthem should not be tainted by having been produced in the circumstances of a partisan political campaign. There should have been not simply an announcement but a statement in the House with an attempt at some kind of bipartisan approach to the matter of choosing a national anthem. This is a serious matter and it should not have been introduced in the way that it was. The Australian people should choose, but the pundits are going to choose for us. We have had enough of pundits and bureaucrats. Do not let them say what is a pretty tune or what is not. When the Australian Broadcasting Commission, or whoever it is, plays the various tunes with a view to the Australian people choosing, I hope that the tune chosen will be not one that has been the subject of a competition but one that has been adopted as the Marseillaise' was adopted, as the 'Star Spangled Banner' was adopted or as 'God Save the Queen' was adopted - that is, by a general consensus of the people born out of the circumstances of war or from traditions. I hope that the choice will fall upon the tune that has been accepted by Australians by consensus wherever they have been gathered together, whether inside or particularly outside this country, when they are conscious of the fact that they are Australians. 
I say the same about the flag. The Australian flag is not some badge of infamy to show that we were a colony of the British rebelling against Britain. This has been the flag that has represented this country and that has been the proud emblem of those who have fought in 2 world wars. They do not see it as something that has a union jack in the corner and is therefore something of which they should be ashamed. They see it as their flag - their emblem. It has been that in 2 world wars and it still is. Wherever one sees it abroad one thinks: 'That is Australia'. We should not be ashamed of our origin. It has been said that the country that has no past has no future. We do have a past and we are proud of the fact that most of us have British origins. Most of us are proud of the fact that we inherited this institution of Parliament and that we inherited a British system of law, which is superior to any in the world. 
And we speak the same language as well. Therefore, I hope that we are not going to have foisted upon us a pretty tune that appeals to some pundits or others who choose words and a tune. I hope that we will choose something that is real, that has really been the badge of Australia and that has been accepted by Australians at home and abroad as representing them over many years. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Does the honourable gentleman regard the 6 per cent or thereabouts interest paid by permanent building societies to their depositors as being excessive, at a time when inflation is running at about 8 per cent, thereby giving the depositors a net return of approximately minus - I repeat the word 'minus' - 2 per cent per annum in real terms? Does he, by his irresponsible statements, deliberately intend to bring these hundreds of thousands of thrifty people to disaster? If that is not his intention, is he prepared to give a meaningful reassurance to them here and now? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to some observations made by the honourable gentleman yesterday in which he gave advice to the  President  of the United States of America and suggested that under the Canberra model of so-called parliamentary government the Executive is answerable to Parliament. Is it not a fact that that is so only when the Opposition has a majority in the Senate that is capable, after infinite effort, of gouging information out of Ministers? This being so, is the Prime Minister advocating that, for the protection of the people against the Executive, voters in the next Senate election would be well advised to perpetuate this situation? 
I rise at this stage merely to be consistent. I voted for the second reading of this Bill to abolish the death penalty on the basis that from all inquiries I have been able to make and the research I have been able to do it would appear to me that the death penalty is not a deterrent. Nevertheless, at the Committee stage we have been concerned with the possibility of some exceptions to that general rule which I accepted. Therefore I have voted for an exception in the case of treason. Treason is defined much more closely than it was in the past. I have excepted treason in the true sense; that is to say, that which endangers the whole framework of the state itself. It is true, of course, that that which endangers the lives of citizens is also in a sense directed against the state, but in a very special sense treason is directed against the state exclusively. I have risen from the point of view of consistency because again I must support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. In effect, it relates to political terrorism. It seems to me that this is on all fours with treason. It is something aimed not at individuals but at the whole framework of our society. I have confessed that capital punishment as a deterrent has little effect that I can discover. Political terrorism is aimed at the overthrow of our cohesive society. It would destroy our whole democratic concept. Because it is on all fours with treason I must support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. This rests on a different principle from deterrence. As the honourable gentleman in the chair has remarked-- 
I am sorry,  Mr Chairman.  I wished to refer to the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory but at the moment I could not recall his Ministry. No disrespect was intended. He has put bluntly that capital punishment is based on revenge. Kinder words could be used such as 'retribution'. I believe that from the earliest times, in primitive and civilised societies, above all else people have been concerned to see that the society should be preserved. By terrorism it can be destroyed. Therefore it is a question of retribution, abhorrence, revenge, call it what you will; but I believe that society must make it clear that there can be no excuse for this kind of conduct. 
Therefore I support the amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and relates to inflation. Is the honourable gentleman aware that responsible people in this community are sick and tired of shadow sparring and politicking over inflation from both sides of this chamber? Is he further aware that the cruel, unjust and potentially explosive results of unbridled inflation are gnawing at the very vitals of our society? I ask him whether, pending the proposed referendum, he will consider immediate action by inviting the State Premiers, especially of New South Wales and Victoria, to act without delay as agents for the Commonwealth Government in imposing for a limited and specified period by way of complementary legislation a freeze on prices and incomes, including rent, interest and dividends, and on all wages and salaries, to provide a breathing space while he calls a conference of representatives of labour and industry and of leading economists to hammer out a comprehensive plan covering all aspects of an effective anti-inflation policy to meet the rapidly escalating emergency situation in the hope that, so far as one country can, we may save ourselves by our exertions and others by example? May I suggest, with great respect, that only by such a course can we hope in this, the most crucial issue of our time, to receive from history the imprimatur of statesmanship? 
I could not have spoken against a better backdrop to Parliament than the proceedings of today. Were I able to speak with the tongues of men and angels and were I Demosthenes, Cicero and Winston Churchill rolled into one the purpose of my speech would be absolutely nil this afternoon. At the last count there were 10 people in this House. This is typical. The people included yourself,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  4 people in the public gallery, 2 in the Speaker's Gallery and one person in the Press gallery. Did I have all this eloquence, all that I said would be of no avail whatsoever. I repeat that this is typical of this Parliament. 
This afternoon we were debating one of the greatest, most towering questions before the world and the people of this country - inflation. It is causing devastation; it could blow our whole society apart. We had2 hours to debate the problem. Members of Parliament talked about meals on wheels and things of that kind with which everybody agreed but everybody had to say something so that his remarks could be reported in a local newspaper. As I said, I could not speak against a better background than that about Parliament. As I sat here during the divisions this afternoon a horrible picture came into my mind. I recalled going along the Kokoda Trail over 30 years ago and seeing a shallow grave with maggots bubbling above the ground in which was a stick with a tin hat and a meat ticket on it. A man was dead. The sight was horrifying; the stench was nauseating. 1 thought: That is what this Parliament is. It is dead. And I was nauseated by the smell of it. 
What is Parliament? One does not have to be versed in etymology to know that the word Parliament' comes from the French word parler' which means to talk, to speak. It is government by discussion. Both sides of the Parliament should be heard, not just one side. Not just what Government supporters say in the Caucus room or what we say in the Party room should be heard. I have often been influenced by what has been said from the other side of the House. Is this a parliament? Are we concerned any more with debate or discussion - discussion between the people's representatives? We could not care less. What has Parliament become? It is simply the means of giving legitimacy to the decisions of alternate juntas. That is all Parliament is today. 
It is not only this Government that has made it so. When we stand at the bar of history we shall all be guilty. 
I remember when  Sir Eric  Harrison was the Leader of the House. He would come into the Party room and use the expression: 'I must have the Bills'. In other words he was saying: Cut out debate. Do not worry about discussion as long as the Bills go through'. Parliament is merely a machine for giving legitimacy to the decisions of the junta. That is what is happening to our Parliament. I take the minds of honourable members back to the Roman Senate. I suppose we should not regard anything such as the Roman Senate as being relevant to today because it was a long time ago. Augustus was conscious that mankind is governed by names and knew that if the people were assured that they still possessed their ancient freedoms they would submit to slavery. So, the Senate remained. The Senate was mentioned with honour to the last days of the Empire, but the Assembly which once had been the arbiter of the world was suffered to sink into obscurity and oblivion. That is precisely what is happening to this Parliament. The Parliaments of Simon de Montford, Charles I, Walpole, Gladstone and Disraeli and  Sir Robert  Menzies are not necessarily the Parliaments of today. The name remains. Mankind is governed by names. We shall have a parliament right to the end. The decrees of Roman emperors such as Nero, Caligula and the rest of them always went out bearing the proud letters SPQR - senatus populusque Romanus - in the name of the Senate and the Roman people. But they were just decrees of dictators and nothing else. Everything that goes out from this Parliament to the last days of our democracy will have the usual old heading concerning the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
What has brought this about? A whole host of things but I have not the time in 10 minutes to go into them all. One matter is the reading of so called speeches. Of course, a reading is not a speech at all; it is a lecture, something which is read. Nearly every member who has spoken today was reading from little pieces of paper. If one listens to a speech broadcast from this chamber one knows when a member is reading. One knows that his heart is not in it. He just reads from bits of paper. There is no meeting of minds. 
That is the beginning of the problem. That is the reason why no members come into the chamber. Why should they? I do not myself. The speeches are too dull and too inconsequential to matter. The Parliament has handed public debate over to the media. That is what is has done. Parliamentary debate matters no longer. We have handed debate over to the media. 
Let me go through in detail one or two small areas of concern. I mention first the farce of our timetable. Nobody knows what is to be the business today, this afternoon, this evening, tomorrow or next week. Nobody knows what is to be the business; as a result, nobody can prepare speeches. Take the situation today when, without any warning whatsoever, this matter of the proposed referendum came into the House in the form of a Bill. Take the example of question time. Answers, under the Standing Orders, are supposed to be relevant to the questions asked. Any man - he does not even need to be a Reg Swartz; he could even be a member on the front bench on the other side- can talk for hours, being relevant, albeit, but wasting the time of the chamber; and the  Speaker  has no power over him. 
Questions range over every field. The first question may be about Aborigines, the next question about prices, the following question on the post office at WOOP WOOP. the next question about brucellosis or about a peanut marketing board. No opportunity is presented at question time to go in depth into any matter whatsoever. We just do not have supplementary questions. We do not do this as it is done in the House of Commons. Nobody can probe a subject in depth. Question time has become a farce. I repeat that it is nothing but a farce. 
The time available for questions is limited to 45 minutes. Yes, I know that we who are now on this side of the House started this practice when we were in government and I will not be unkind as to the reason. But I remember that in the past, when  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister, question time ended when, quite evidently, most people had asked the questions that they wished to ask. The period available for this purpose was entirely flexible. Now, on the dot, on the second, the guillotine falls. 
First reading speeches, of course, were abolished long ago. I remember that we had them in the New South Wales State House. They were valuable because members could express broad view on whatever the topic happened to be before the Bill itself was actually introduced. But never in my time here have we even had first reading debates. I turn to second reading debates. These are often limited, as we saw today, to 3 speakers from each side on the most towering problem of our time. We had 3 speakers from each side! 
The Committee of the Whole has become an absolute farce with most members fastening on to perhaps one clause and delivering a second reading speech on it. There is no real Committee consideration in the Committee of the Whole in this chamber. The debate has become an utter farce. At the second reading stage, each Bill should be referred to a Committee which acts in the fashion of a real committee, where officers are present, where the matter being legislated on can be gone into in depth. But no, we turn the Committee stage into a farce. 
As to other committees - well, the House of Representatives has practically none. I remember the House of 'Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation - wildlife is very important - but I cannot remember many other committees of the House of Representatives. The Senate has a committee system - by accident, by a happy chance - because the Opposition felt that this was the best means of embarrassing the Government. It could do so by appointing committees. Some members of the present Government when on this side of the chamber rather enjoyed it. But this system too will be buried as soon as it can be buried. 
I mention next ministerial statements. We had a statement on defence after the Government had reduced our defence forces to next to nothing. That statement was answered by one member who was the spokesman on this side on defence matters. We have had no debate on that subject since. Perhaps we willhavea debate on the Defence Estimates with 10 minutes allotted to each of 5 speakers. The same situation arose in regard to the Karmel Committee report which has turned our whole education system upside down. We had a ministerial statement from the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and a statement in reply from this side. White papers or green papers are practically unheard of. 
As to the use of our time, what do we do? We waste it talking for hours and hours about matters on which we all agree, for the purpose of getting a bit of material in our local news papers. As to the essential matters, we push them through as we did this afternoon in 2 hours. Those factors must ultimately have a great effect on the quality of Parliament. People worthwhile will not bother to come into the House of Representatives. They may for a while continue to go into the Senate. But we have killed Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, the question before the House is that grievances be noted. I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  will note my grievances because for almost 3 years I have pursued this matter. 
 I have notified him but he is conferring with Premiers. 
 I trust that his officers will draw his attention - 
I do not want to waste my time. 
Yes. I am sorry that time has been wasted. I was about to say that 1 notified the Treasurer and I know that what you say,  Mr Speaker,  is so. I trust that his officers will draw his attention to what I say as it is reported in Hansard. 
For over 2 years I have sought redress for a grievance of one of my constituents by means of letters to 2 Treasurers from time to time, by conferences with officials and by every other means. Now I come before this place which is supposed to be the place where grievances are redressed. That it has long since ceased to be. The best way in which 1 can state the facts of this matter is to read a summary which I put to the then Treasurer on 23 August 1972 and put before the present Treasurer later. This is the way my letter ran: 
I wish to make representations for an ex-gratia payment to my constituent  Mr G.  W. Henry, 14 Lord Street, Roseville. 
The sum involved would amount to about 30 invested in war loan in 1917 with compound interest at the average rates prevailing for government loans over the intervening years - a sum amounting, on my calculation, to approximately 500- 
Or $1,000- at the present time and ignoring the decline in the real value of money over the past 50 years or so. 
I enclose the whole of my file on the matter, supporting the following brief statement of the case: 
Henry was a member of the AIF in France in 1917 and invested, under a scheme promoted by the Treasury, the sum of 30 in Australian war loan. The evidence that he did so appears from his Army pay book and certain official letters- 
Photocopies of these letters were sent to the Treasurer. I said in the letter that the fact that he made such an investment had not been contested by the Treasury. I went on to say: 
Now of course an old man, he says that in putting his affairs in order he came upon some relics of his World War I experience, including his Army pay book, and this recalled to his mind the fact that he had made his investment of 30 in war bonds 50 years ago. He immediately inquired of the Treasury whether they had a record of the transaction and was informed by them that, since it had occurred over 50 years ago, a record was unavailable'. 
He then contacted his solicitor .... 
The matter was then put before the Treasury. I went on to say: 
The Treasury referred the matter to the Reserve Bank, which informed my constituent's solicitor that no trace of any security, in  Mr Henry's  name has been found'. 
At this point my constituent brought the matter to my notice and I wrote to the Treasurer stating that it was 'not his fault that the government machine .... failed to process the transaction correctly, or to record it or to preserve the record'. 
My constituent, on the other hand had made, and submitted to the Treasury, a sworn statement to the effect that he had never received repayment of the loan nor any interest on it. 
I have here a copy of a sworn statement in which the relevant paragraph is this: 
I did not return to Australia until the year 1920. 
He then referred to the receipt of certain letters while he was on service overseas and went on to say: 
I have never heard further from any authority regarding my said loan nor did I ever receive any interest thereon, nor has the sum of 30.0.0 or any part thereof ever been repaid to me. 
I remind honourable members that this was a sworn statement. In reply to this the Treasurer drew attention to a statement appearing in my constituent's pay history card, as it is called in the Army, held by Southern Command pay office of the Army, as follows: 
30, CBA- 
That is the Commonwealth Bank of Australia - claim No. R75826, payment by bonds approved' and surmised that this entry 'could indicate that he used the bonds to meet a claim for 30.' 
This was absolute nonsense. It appeared in the remarks column and could not possibly have indicated a repayment. What it did mean, I believe, was simply that so far as the Army was concerned it acknowledged that they had received money for bonds and that  Mr Henry  was entitled to receive it from the appropriate authority dealing with bonds. My letter continued: 
The Treasurer's explanation is as cryptic as the entry. Nevertheless, he concluded 'the evidence before me does not establish that the amount has not already been repaid'. To which my constituent responded 'if that was the case, the claim would have been entered in my pay book in red ink', and not in the Remarks Column. 
At my request, the Treasurer then made available two officers of the Reserve Bank  (Mr Leighton and Mr Thomas)'  to discuss the whole matter with my constituent, his solicitor and myself. The upshot of this conference was summarised by me in my subsequent letter to the Treasurer in these words: Their case simply is that their records were destroyed only when a transaction has been completed. Therefore they conclude that the bonds in question must have been redeemed*. I went on to say: 'My constituent is adamant - and I believe him implicitly - that, if they were redeemed, it was not by him or on his behalf. 
At my request, the Minister for the Army also made available two officers from the Army Pay Office  (Mr Barnsley and Mr Pope)  to discuss with my constitutent, his solicitor and myself relevant procedures at the Army headquarters at Horseferry Road, London, and the Minister subsequently wrote to me as follows: 'Because of the service conditions u'n France arrangements were made to hold at Horseferry Road the receipts for amounts invested in War Loans until these were required by the soldiers concerned . . . Subsequently occurrences would only appear in the records of the Bank.' 
Then I said - and let me emphasise that I made these remarks with irony: 
Perhaps soldiers -would remember to apply for their receipts at Horseferry Road - again I emphasise that this was ironical - if they were not killed, or forgot, or ever reached the London headquarters, and perhaps they presented the receipts and obtained their bonds in exchange at the office of the Commonwealth (Reserve) Bank in London or Sydney or Melbourne or wherever. And perhaps their identity was carefully checked at Horseferry Road and at the office of the Commonwealth (Reserve) Bank in London or elsewhere and perhaps no official was ever careless or dishonest. 
I must repeat again that the whole of that paragraph is highly ironical. I went on to say: 
But if the investment were small, many soldiers must have forgotten to collect their bonds, and many others must have been killed and been unable to collect them. Is it absolutely impossible that some dishonest officials by collusion profited from this situation? 
The fact is that there is now no evidence to prove or disprove what may have happened in the conditions of World War I. The stark difference is this: Treasury and Army claim without being able to produce the proof- excusable perhaps after SO years, but a fact - that they must have been infallible. On the other hand, a citizen of clear mind and understanding makes a sworn statement that he never received or redeemed his bonds for a trifling investment in 1917 in circumstances that lend complete credibility to his evidence. Yet he is regarded as a perjurer. 
I am absolutely convinced that his memory is clear and that he is telling the truth. Otherwise, I would not have spent hours seeking justice for him. 
I am informed that the only way open to do this is through an ex-gratia payment, and accordingly I ask that this be approved. 
I received a reply finally from the present Treasurer. He said: it is accepted that  Mr Henry  paid 30 towards a war bond in 1917, but, taking into account the information that has already been passed to you- 
And I have mentioned all this - 
It cannot be accepted that he did not receive the bond or some consideration for it. 
Honourable members will notice that the Treasurer said that it cannot be accepted that he did not receive the bond. The onus is on him, apparently, according to the Treasury. The Treasurer went on to say: 
Whilst in no way doubting  Mr Henry's  good faith, in all the circumstances and in the absence of evidence to support his claim that the bond was not redeemed, I regret that I must conclude that I would not be justified in authorising a payment based solely on memories going back over so many years. 
So he is a perjurer or he just forgot. I have a letter from  Mr Henry  in which he says: 
I was discharged at St Kilda Road Barracks on 22 May '1920 and received my gratuity which was paid into the State Savings Bank, Melbourne. 
It had been suggested by the Treasurer that he should have received payment of his war bonds at the time he received his gratuity. He went on to say: 
I wish to state that I have never received the bond nor any moneys in lieu thereof. 
This is a case in which a constituent is rubbished as a liar and a perjurer despite the circumstances that I have set out. I believe that this is a grievance that should be brought to the notice of this House and to the notice of the public so far as Hansard is read by anybody. 
In a mere matter of 10 minutes obviously it is possible for me to deal with only one point. The point that I wish to deal with is the effect of the Government's policy in certain independent schools whose per capita subsidy has been reduced or abolished. 
Surely the intention is to reduce or abolish the subsidy. In this connection I wish to quote from a circular sent to the parents of boys attending the Sydney Grammar School. The circular was written by  Sir Norman  Cowper,  Chairman  of the School Council. Because he is a very distinguished citizen who speaks with special knowledge and who puts this case with a force and eloquence that I would be unable to command, I shall read what  Sir Norman  Cowper has to say. The circular states: 
The Trustees- 
That is, the trustees of the Sydney Grammar School - have decided  -  I need not say with the greatest reluctance - that fees must be raised from the beginning of first term 1974 . . . 
The increases have become necessary, partly in order to meet rises in costs which have already occurred or are forecast for the next year, but principally because of the withdrawal by the Commonwealth Government as from the end of this year of the annual grant of $104 for each secondary pupil and $62 for each primary pupil. 
The Trustees heartily welcomed the Government's decision to provide vastly greater funds for the support of both government and non-government schools, and its intention to allocate those funds generally in accordance with the needs of schools. But a criterion of need which results in all support being withdrawn from a school such as this is manifestly absurd. The criterion is said to be 'usage of recurrent resources'. This School has no endowments or investments (except those modest sums which are held in trust to provide scholarships and prizes) or other 'recurrent resources' and relies wholly (apart from such aid as may come from the State Government) upon fees paid by, parents. To say that its command of recurrent resources is such as to disentitle it to any support is to use words with a frivolous disregard for their meaning. In truth the criterion applied by the Karmel Committee and the Government is degree of excellence. When a school by the anxious use of the most meagre means and with the self-sacrificing contributions of parents achieves a degree of excellence not matched by the generality of schools, it is penalised by having all aid withdrawn; and further heavy burdens are necessarily laid upon the parents. 
A possible alternative to the increases now announced would be to increase class sizes, reduce the number and quality of the staff, and generally lower the standards of the School. This would be a disastrous course and the School would not long survive its adoption, for there would be no inducement for parents to send their boys to the School if the education offered were of a second-class character. 
The Government talks about affluent schools. The fact is that what the Government will do by means of implementing its policy is to ensure that only the affluent go to such schools. I remember talking some years ago with a headmaster of another school comparable with the Sydney Grammar School. He said that the best boys he had were those who were by no means the sons of affluent parents but the sons of parents with quite small resources who made enormous sacrifices to send their boys to that school. By implementing its policy in this regard the Government will turn these schools into schools purely for the affluent and for those who are least worthy to receive the kind of education that these schools provide. This is a penalty, as  Sir Norman  Cowper puts it, on excellence. I believe fundamentally and deeply that excellence is a thing always to be preserved. Excellence is rare. It is uncommon. It is precious. When one sets, about to destroy excellence what one is doing is to act as a barbarian. 
I am all for the building up of excellence but what I deplore is the destruction of excellence. It is easy enough to destroy. When the barbarians came in on the Roman Empire they destroyed much that they could not rebuild. Honourable members opposite, as barbarians, are destroying the excellent schools that have excellent facilities. The honourable member talks about building up excellence. 
The honourable gentleman is entitled to his opinion and no doubt if he can get the call he will be able to express it in this chamber. But I am expressing my opinion at this moment and I will not have any interjections from the honourable gentleman. If he has something to say, let him get on his feet and say it, but he should not continue interjecting while I am speaking. All of us are agreeable that measures should be taken to assist those who are handicapped in one way or another - for example, mentally or physically handicapped, migrant children, children with specific learning difficulties and children in slums. Of course we all agree with this. But does the Government have to reduce the small amount that it has been providing to the independent schools in order to do so? This is a program that costs tens of millions of dollars. This Government would take away a trivial amount on the pretext that it was necessary to assist it in doing those other things. Promises were given before the election by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  who is seated at the table that this would not be done, and those promises were broken. But I am not making political points. I am concerned that as barbarians the supporters of this Government are destroying excellence - a rare and precious thing. I believe that this is a wicked thing to do. 
Most debates in this chamber on education, most debates in this community, in State parliaments and everywhere revolve around questions on classrooms, equipment, teacher pupil ratio and all those material things. Nobody ever seems to think about the values that are instilled into the minds of children. Yet surely this is the objective of any education. The places in which these values are instilled are in homes, in schools and by television. The things that are going into the minds of children through television are quite deplorable, yet we do nothing about it. In many cases, unfortunately because it is not the fault of the parents, the homes are not able to supply what is best for the values of the children. It is only in the schools that this can be done. So this Government has set out to destroy schools which seek to develop rounded personalities. 
The real objectives of education were established in the days of the Renaissance in Italy by that greatest of all humanist educators, Vittorino da Feltre. about whom the Minister would know very well. Vittorino da Feltre realised that it was a question not only of the intellectual development of children but also of the development of their characters, the development of their bodies and rounded personalities. The schools such as the one to which I have referred have sought to instil these particular values. Of course it should be done generally. I agree with my friend opposite, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr 
Jenkins), that they should be built up. For heaven's sake build them up and do not seek to destroy them because this is what this Government is doing and it is doing it in a miserable fashion. I believe it is doing it out of envy, hatred and malice and all uncharitableness and not as honourable members opposite say to provide a few extra dollars for the people who really need assistance. It is not for that purpose at all. It is because of envy, hatred and malice. I believe this to be true. I deplore it. I am not seeking to make political points here but I simply deplore a policy that I believe to be absolutely and utterly miserable. 
At a time when it is government policy to expend enormous sums of money in the development of its instrumentalities and at a time also when we are being told about the decline in the proportion of gross domestic product going to wage earners, I thought I would like to bring before the House some data which came to my hand a few days ago regarding the claims of the unions which will be involved in the construction of the pipeline  from  Moomba to Sydney. This information came to my notice through a metal trades source which I have every reason to believe is reliable. So I give the facts, that is, the claim of the relevant unions, namely, the Australian Workers Union and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. They claim that the rate for welders on this project should be $4 an hour and that the rate for labourers should be S2.94 an hour, and that all other classifications should be paid a rate somewhere between those 2 extremes of S4 and $2.94. This means that welders would receive S81.50 over the award per week and labourers would receive S60.30 over the award per week. The claim is that 9 months after the job starts they will call it midway and this will mean that they will receive another 13c an hour over the foregoing rates. The national wage case variation will apply and it is likely that this will be by April 1974. 
It is also claimed that if between August 1973 and January 1974, which is when the job should start, the consumer price index increase exceeds 8i per cent the rate already quoted will be increased by 3c per 1 per cent increase in the consumer price index. This is a normal claim. They claim air fares from the point of engagement to the site and back again. They claim that they should be entitled to 64 hours annual sick leave to be paid at the ordinary rate. They claim further that the 64 hours must be available from the first day of employment, and that medical certificates should not be required. All accommodation and messing is to be free of charge and all to be first class - one man per room, hot midday meals and first class recreation facilities. This indeed is normal in such cases. Because the pipeline will pass through isolated areas, they claim that a location allowance which ranges between $10 and $30 a week, depending on the location should be paid. Apparently Young is a much more pleasant place to be near than, for example, Mingary. They claim also that the unions will allow the contractor to use automatic welding machines for welding instead of insisting on hand welding, but this will be done only if first class welder classifications are used. This means a claim for first class welders to receive an additional $6.25 per day quality allowance, as it is called. 
There are not enough first class welders and this will mean that these will have to be trained. They will not permit expatriates to come in from elsewhere. They claim that they will not be working overtime but will allow overtime up to 52 hours a week should a so-called home leave not be allowed for. This means that they are claiming 3 weeks work in a month, 10 hours per day, 6 days per week. They claim that if they are working such overtime they should get a home leave after 3 weeks, which will consist of free fares to the point of engagement plus normal wages for 40 hours per week and return air fares to the job again after 6 or 7 days home leave. If home leave is not allowed for, they will place a ban on overtime. Therefore that every fourth week they will get as a holiday 6 days fully paid. 
They will not allow contractors to employ expatriates - this is the point that the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  raised earlier - and all people employed on the pipeline should be Australian citizens or people who have resided in Australia for the past 2 years. Therefore if there is a shortage of welders - there is a general shortage of welders in Australia - it will not be possible to employ anyone from overseas so that older people will have to be trained to cope with the duties of a welder. I understand that training can be done very quickly. Expatriates will probably be allowed to act as instructors to train local people. There is a battle going on between the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and the Australian Workers Union about demarcation. The yearly income of the lowest classification on the job will be between $15,000 and $16,000 a year and the welders will be earning between $22,000 and $24,000 a year, plus free messing, accommodation and so forth. They do not wish this to be paid immediately but to have it paid in a lump sum, with leave, to avoid taxation. This would be what is called in taxation terms, I think, a retirement allowance or a lump sum payment on termination of employment on which they would pay 5 per cent income tax. 1 will admit that constructing this pipeline is very hard and very tedious work in very harsh conditions, and that it requires, as does all work, a degree of skill, although those who will receive, as I mentioned a moment ago, between $15,000 and 516,000 a year are what are called unskilled workers, labourers. This is a tremendously important matter because the Government is proposing massive investment through its instrumentalities in development projects. We have a Government in office whose political foundation is the trade union movement. It says to the unions: All right, go ahead, demand what you like. So far as we, a Labor Government are concerned, it is all right with us.' If rates of this kind are paid I say that this means nothing less than a raid on the public purse. More than that, it means that the cost of the product to the general public - what we are talking about here happens to be gas - will be enormously increased by reason of this lax control of the public purse. 
This is part of the cost that we have to pay for a Labor Government, and I think the people should know this. This is a cost to the taxpayer whose money is to be raided. This is a cost to the consumer upon whom the additional price of the product must be loaded; this at a time when we have heard a lot of talk and have been given a lot of figures to obfuscate the real facts. Here we have an example of the real facts which suggest that the proportion of the gross domestic product going to wage and salary earners has been reducing over recent years. No amount of bluff and persiflage and talk and nonsense of the kind we have been accustomed to in recent times can obliterate these facts. I ask the Government to tell me whether these are the demands and, when these contracts are concluded, the extent to which those demands have been admitted and these rates paid by the contractors concerned. People are entitled to know these facts and a government under a parliamentary system, if that is what we have here, is answerable to the people and to the Parliament. When plain facts of this kind are sought we are entitled to have them. When the time comes and when the Government is in the position to give them, I suggest that the Parliament will insist that we have them. How far have these demands been met by the contractors? These are simply factual matters. A government is answerable to the people and answerable to this Parliament, and the Parliament has means of ensuring that a government answerable to it does in fact answer. For far too long in this place we have been asking questions and have received no answers. Parliament as an institution has been flouted. What does the word 'parliament' mean? The word means parley - to talk - to speak - to discuss. We have had a Minister in this place - a Leader of the House - telling us all that matters is the vote, not the reasons or what the issue it. It does not matter whether the people know what it is all about or not. We are told that all that matters is the vote. Of course it will matter enormously when we get to the next election and when the explanations go out. I have stated what I believe to be the facts and we will insist that on this matter we have the facts from the Government which is answerable to this Parliament. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the visit to Australia of the very distinguished Foreign Minister of Indonesia,  Mr Adam  Malik, for 4 or 5 days at present. I note that he is to address the National Press Club but that no arrangements appear to have been made for him to address members of this Parliament. Does this represent the view of the Australian Government or the Indonesian Government that this Parliament is relatively insignificant? 
This is the first time that the estimates for the Department of the Media have been brought before the Committee in an Appropriation Bill, because the Department has only recently been set up by the present Government. This debate gives us an opportunity to concentrate on policies in this field. I want to make 2 preliminary observations about the media. The first is their all-pervasiveness. I speak of the Press, radio and television. A second quality that they have is the quality of monopolisation. Because it is so expensive to establish newspapers few exist and still fewer new ones come into existence. So far as radio and television are concerned, the ether waves are limited. Therefore the number of channels that can be established is also limited. These are 2 features of the media to which I wish to draw attention to begin with. 
Dealing first with the all-pervasiveness and the power of the media, I would say that technology makes this field as important as, say, the development of nuclear weapons, or jet aircraft, or modern earth-moving equipment, or the electronics industry - for example, in the field of computers. The difference is that instead of effecting the movement of mountains, the killing of millions of people or the speed of movement, it affects the minds and attitudes of men, and this is obviously a vitally important matter. 
I want to refer to only 2 aspects of the activities of the media. What are their effects on morals and attitudes in the community? We have seen in the commercial field the merciless exploitation of youth, for young people have money in their pockets and the advertisers on commercial radio stations and so forth have sought to coax it out of the pockets of the young and, in so doing, have had no regard whatever for anything but the profit motive. We have seen the growth of moral depravity, of pornography and all kinds of undesirable developments in this field. We have seen petitions presented to this House recently - I think most honourable members have done this and I certainly have presented a number on behalf of my constitutents - in regard to this aspect of television and radio in particular. 
There are 3 ways in which young people are educated. One is in their homes. Unfortunately not all homes can provide the best education for the young. Another way is in the school, and the third way, and perhaps the most important of all, through the media. The idea that children, young people, are like adults who can pick and choose and know what is good and what is bad obviously has no basis in reality. So the sacred cause, the sacred name of freedom of speech, and the horrible word 'censorship', and so forth, have been utterly perverted and misunderstood. If one is dealing with children, censorship is entirely justified and freedom of speech, in the old sense, has to be modified. 
May I mention two or three of the most famous thinkers in the field of education over the centuries. In ancient times there was, of course, Plato. Then there was Vittorino da Feltre, the great humanist educator in Italy during the Renaissance; Arnold of Rugby in the last century in England, and  Sir Richard  Livingston in our own day, the writer of that classical work, 'Education in a World Adrift*. I merely pick at random great figures in the field of education over the centuries, and none of them has had any doubt whatsoever that one should indoctrinate children with the ideas of excellence. I use the words particularly used by  Sir Richard  Livingstone: They should be surrounded by that which is excellent. Those great men had no doubt that that kind of indoctrination was not merely justifiable but also essential if worthwhile citizens are to be produced. 
So I think we have to revise our views about censorship and freedom of speech when we talk about the media, and particularly about radio and television, as they affect our future citizens. That is all I want to say on that issue. It is a matter of fundamentally rethinking the position. I do not suppose anybody will think about it at all, and that we shall go downhill steadily as we have been doing in the past. At least, I put it so that there can be no doubt that there is this issue. 
I talk next about the effect of the media on the democratic process. First of all, in general terms, we now have a Minister for the Media. This, of course, conjures up immediately the name of  Dr Goebbels.  We look with great doubt and suspicion upon a person who is a. Minister of a government and who has power in this field, because anyone who seeks to establish power in perpetuity in the political field looks first of all to the media. It is what Hitler did, it is what Mussolini did, it is what is done in Russia, and it is what is done in China. It happens wherever one looks. Therefore, one must regard this Ministry with suspicion and as something that requires eternal vigilance if one is to prevent the same sort of deterioration here. 
But the effect goes beyond this. Parliament is no longer reported in the newspapers. What we have instead are commentaries. As a result, parliamentary debate has deteriorated, for everybody knows that the speeches they make here will not be reported and therefore they ask why they should bother to make speeches that matter. This has had a most detrimental effect on the Parliament, and there has been a deterioration of debate - almost the demoralisation of the Parliament - as a result. I have mentioned the power, the all pervasiveness and the strength of the media. They provide a tremendous platform for those who can use them. 
Who are they? The commentators in the newspapers and the people who conduct public affairs programs, say in television and on the radio. They have a tremendous plat form from which they can exercise their own particular predilections politically and do; or if one likes to put it this way, the political predilections of the people who employ them. It may be said that it is the newspaper proprietors, the television proprietors, or whatever: I do not mind which way it is put, but I say that there is enormous power in these unelected persons. Power has moved from elected persons to unelected persons inasmuch as this platform here, the Parliament, no longer matters, and instead this tremendously elevated platform is being used by unelected persons who can use it to express their own biased views. 
When it comes to television performances, it is the executives of these organisations who choose the subject, who choose the timing, who choose the participants and who direct the debate. I need not mention the various platforms provided in this way, but I say that it is utterly wrong that this kind of platform should be given to these unelected people to use for their own particular political prejudices. What are their criteria? I believe that members of this Parliament, coming here from their electorates, being sent by peoples who have their own problems and their own ideas, and being conscious, as honourable members must be, of the aspirations of those people, come to this place to represent the aspirations of those with whom they are in touch. What do the media people represent? Their criterion, above all, is entertainment. This involves personalities, rows - these are the things in which people are most interested - and trivia. We had a little talk in the past day or two in this place about sugar. I think one honourable member came up with his grandmother's prescription for all kinds of wogs. I think it required a mixture of sugar - and what else? 
It was a mixture of sugar, rum and onions, and it was supposed to give people virility and so forth. This trivial thing is what hit the newspapers. I am simply making the point that the criteria of these people are not the criteria of this Parliament. I think that great damage is being done to this institution as a result of our not giving careful thought to where we are moving in this field. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not think that anybody in this chamber could accuse me of rising simply to waste time or to regard this issue as simply an ancient form of party strife. It is a matter that I take with the utmost seriousness. First, I remind honourable members what Parliament is supposed to be and perhaps even once was. 
The very derivation of the word 'parliament' is 'parler' meaning 'to speak', so that Parliament is a place where speeches are made, where discussion takes place and where argument is answered by argument. When one deprives Parliament of that function one kills Parliament. When the spirit is dead it is not long before the body begins to rot. This, I fear, is what is beginning to happen in this Parliament. I hope that it will be resuscitated before that stage is reached. I refer to one or two arguments which have been used, particularly by the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby).  He said, in effect, that we are dealing with matters that are to be decided by the people in a referendum. Therefore, he implies, there is no need for these matters to be considered by this Parliament, because they will be decided by the people. The way in which the question is to be put to the people is of importance to all honourable members. It may be that in the course of this debate a suggestion is put forward that the form in which the question is proposed to be put to the people by the Government is not the best way that it should be put. That is the first point I wish to raise. There is a reason for the Parliament to debate this matter. 
Secondly, and more importantly, the Parliament consists of the representatives of the people. When a referendum of this kind is to be put to the people surely the Parliament, of all places, is where there should be discussion on the issues to be raised in the referendum; that is, unless one takes the view that Parliament does not matter at all and that the views of the elected representatives of the people are of no consequence. If that view is taken, very well, let us not have any debate in Parliament. 
Finally, in passing - by way of illustration - I refer to the Bill to alter the Constitution to enable the Commonwealth to borrow money for and to grant financial assistance to local government bodies. It is a simple little matter affecting local government and one in which aldermen will be concerned. They may get a little more money to use in order to bribe their ratepayers. It is a simple little matter indeed! The cash nexus between the Commonwealth and the States, and between the Commonwealth and local government means that one can be starved and the other can be fed. Indeed, this Government is doing its best to starve the States to death. I emphasise that point. If the Government has that power to enable it to feed local government and to starve State governments we shall move to a constitution similar to the Constitution of the United Kingdom which provides for Westminster and county councils. Nothing is in between; there are no State governments. This would mean a complete and radical change in our Constitution in the course of time from a Federal Constitution to a unitary constitution with local government bodies, as is the case in the United Kingdom. To say that this is a trivial matter, that it does not require debate and that nothing said in this place will be noted by the people when they vote, is simply to misconceive the whole situation. I believe that this curtailment of debate is a suffocation and ultimately will be the murder of Parliament itself. 
In the  10  minutes available to me I want to say a few words about the style and structure of the present Government. First of all, it has been said time and time again by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that he has  a  mandate to do this or that. I want to make the point that when in the course of  an  election campaign a political leader makes what he is pleased to call a policy speech and a number of other speeches and issues supplementary statements and so on there may be  199  different matters that he has mentioned. To claim that he has  a  mandate for every one of these is of course on the face of it obviously absurd. If we had a ballot paper in which people were asked: Are you in favour of this, that or the other?' and  we  went down the list of  199  matters, we probably would find that there were few indeed of those matters mentioned by a political leader which would have the endorsement of the majority of the people. 
I illustrate this - merely illustrate it - by referring to the promise with regard to a national anthem. The honourable member for 
Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  has a notice on the notice paper which precludes me from going into that matter in any detail, and I do not intend to. But I merely give this illustration. The Prime Minister has no mandate for implementing this promise in the way that he proposes, even if we accepted that the majority of the people wanted it. I believe that only by means of a referendum is it possible for the people to feel that they are really participating. For some survey to be taken amongst elected people is not to the point. Clearly the people must feel that they are participating and this Parliament should participate. 
There has been an arrogant refusal by the Prime Minister to include, for example, the national anthem that we have had for so long, God Save the Queen. I am not arguing in favour of it or against it. I am merely saying that the people have been denied a choice and I take that as an example of the abuse of the idea of  a  mandate. It is an arrogant refusal to give people a choice that they plainly want, whether you,  Mr Speaker,  or I or anybody else believes in the choice that they may make. What the Prime Minister forgets is that we cannot thrust a national anthem down the throats of the people. If they will not have it, they will boycott it. They will not stand for it. They will not honour it. Unless the Prime Minister brings this to the Parliament - indeed, it has been brought to the Parliament through the initiative of an honourable member on this side of the House - and it is debated here, unless there is some bi-partisan approach on this matter, and unless the people as a whole participate, it does not matter what mandate the Prime Minister claims; he can give no effect to it. 
Still dealing with the style of the Government, I move on to the question of the Constitution - not to debate the Bills at present before the House or which may be put before the House but simply to say that an attempt is being made to tear up the Federal Constitution. In the earlier stages of this Government or, I suppose technically, its predecessor in the days of the diumvirate, we had scores of things done for months and months without them coming to the Parliament. The Government ransacked every provision in the Acts of the Parliament which had been passed to find means of doing things for which there has been no debate or warrant and not even the vestige of  a  claim for  a  mandate. This went on for months and months. Since then we have had a situation where an attempt has made to tear up the Consitution by stealth. For example, we had the legislation relating to the Department of Urban and Regional Development which was designed to set up regions in Australia to which money might be given for purposes approved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
If we starve the States as a deliberate process and policy and feed local government as a deliberate policy we reach a stage where one part of the Federal Constitution, the States, are destroyed and another part, local government, is built up in their place so that we replace our federal form of government with the kind of government which exists in the United Kingdom where they have one central government at Westminster and county councils, borough councils and so forth administering details in the regions. This has been done by stealth. One would think that if the Australian people wished to change their form of Constitution from a federal to a unitary system, the right way to do this would be for a government to come out and state plainly what it wished to do, give the arguments in favour of what it wished to do and finally, by referendum, put it to the people instead of seeking to do it by stealth. I have time to give only that one illustration but others will spring to the minds of honourable members. 
We have seen a steady degeneration of the Parliament. We have seen question time used simply as a vehicle for propaganda on the part of Ministers of this Government. In response to questions - often Dorothy Dix questions, as we describe them - we have Ministers pouring out propaganda which has little relationship to the question that has been asked. The Standing Orders are perfectly plain on this matter, but they have been ignored. This is a complete abuse of the process of this Parliament. Actually, the importance of Parliament is that the Executive - the Government, the Ministers - is answerable to it. When we reach a situation where Ministers make it impossible for questions to be asked or, if they are asked, they do not answer them, no longer is the Executive responsible to the Parliament and so we destroy Parliament, treating it simply as a rubber stamp to give effect to the decisions of the Executive. It will be that and nothing more because only this can give legitimacy to decisions of the Government; only this will be enforced by the courts; only this will have effect in the community. This of course has always been the function of Parliament. Debate and discussion is the essence of Parliament itself, and this has been steadily eroded and is in the process of being destroyed. The people do not know that they no longer have a Parliament in the true sense of the word. There is a thing here with the name of  Parliament.  There is a place here called Parliament House. But that does not make a parliament. The Parliament has been steadily eroded. There has been a deliberate move by the Government, and particularly by the Prime Minister, to turn the media into a substitute for Parliament. These are people who are not elected, these are people whose criteria are different from ours. We are in touch with our constituents and we know their aspirations. In the media, all one gets is people seeking to entertain with trivia or whatever it may be. So Parliament is ceasing to be in effect the tribune of the people. Because of the fact that the plebians were not represented in the Roman Senate, the Romans invented the idea of tribunes - special officers to protect the interests of the people, with special powers of veto of certain legislation and so on. It was the Roman invention. But the British invented the parliamentary system to look after the interests of the mass of the people. Now we are destroying this and handing over this function to the media, which have no responsibility in the matter at all. All I can say is: God help the people if they have to depend on the media- as the tribunes of the people. 
Now a word about the structure of the present Government. Ministers are elected by the Caucus. But can they be dismissed? A Prime Minister cannot dismiss his Ministers. It does not matter what a Minister does, how incompetent he is or how much he may defy the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister cannot dismiss him. Furthermore the Government can be overruled by Caucus. The result is uncertainty and irresponsibility in government. As I have illustrated in this House, we have seen oppressiveness, arrogance and a dictatorial attitude, and insults have been thrown across the chamber and have reduced the Parliament to a shambles. The reason for its being reduced to a shambles is that these insults are thrown, and they naturally provoke a response. As I mentioned earlier at question time, when a Minister can make a propaganda speech and the Opposition has no right to reply to it, then of course there will be a reaction that results in turmoil and the kind of thing that we have seen not only in the last few days- 
I second the amendment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has covered the general field very adequately, and I find myself in powerful agreement with him. It is not necessary to repeat what he has said, and I have no intention of doing so. I shall content myself, in the short time that is available to me, in referring to one matter only in connection with this taxation measure. I refer to the situation of people on low and modest incomes. I believe that inequities arise from the abolition of the age allowance for income tax purposes and the substitution of a $156 rebate, reducing as income increases. I will not vouch for the precise accuracy of my figures, but the effect so far as I can ascertain it is that single persons with a taxable income over about $2,000 will be worse off under the present rebate system than they would have been under the age allowance system that has been abolished. Again, all married persons with taxable incomes up to about $3,800 will be worse off. I may be wrong in detail, but broadly I think I am correct. The abolition of the means test on incomes of persons over 75 years of age will not at any time in the future, if the Labor Government remains in office, be applied to women aged between 60 and 64 years. This will affect many widows, who will in fact be worse off than at present if their incomes exceed $2,000, as I have already said. 
I want to speak also about inequities m respect of the fringe benefits available to pensioners. These are numerous and valuable. I have before me the leaflet of these benefits issued by the Department of Social Security. I will not go into detail as to what these fringe benefits are, but I will simply mention them. There is the pensioner medical service. It will be said that soon everybody will be entitled to hospital beds in public wards and to a medical service free of charge, but this is not yet. There are other advantages such as transport concessions. It may be said that these are not granted by the Commonwealth or that if they are granted by the Commonwealth they affect mainly people in the States and these are benefits granted by the States. Pensioners enrolled in the pensioner medical service receive a 50 per cent rebate on water rates. 
They receive telephone rental concessions. They receive concessions for ambulance services, television licences, dental services, hearing aid services and optometrical services and also funeral benefits - not much use to them in their lifetime, admittedly - and legal assistance. Generally these fringe benefits are numerous and valuable. 
Naturally the value of them will vary from person to person. It is not everybody who necessarily has a telephone; it is not everybody who necessarily needs a hearing aid; it is not everybody who may travel to the same extent as others. But the value of the fringe benefits has been reckoned at between $500 and $1,000 a year. So we are not talking about peanuts. Who gets these benefits? Let me quote a piece of limpid prose read by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in what we call a speech. It was a speech on the Social Services Bill (No. 4) made on 11 September this year, as reported on page 756 of Hansard. The Minister said that the means test will continue as regards fringe benefits. He said: 
The Government has decided that the 1967 means test will continue to apply for 'fringe' benefit eligibility but that the pension increases to be paid in the autumn of 1974 will not extend benefits to people whose means are outside the new limits now proposed. The pension increases provided in this Bill will lift the disqualifying limits of means as assessed for 'fringe' benefit eligibility by $1.50 a week to $33 a week for single' pensioners and $3 a week to $57.50 a week for pensioner couples. What this means is that a married couple may have a combined income of up to $86.50 a week, including pension, and a single person a combined income of up to $49.50 a week, including pension, before eligibility for fringe benefits ceases. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you may have followed every word of that. All I can say is that it is a gem of purest ray serene, so limpid that very few people can understand it. It seems to me at least that a means test dating back to 1967 will continue to be applied to fringe benefits. What it means is that if a person happens to qualify under the test, if one likes to work out what this means, he will receive benefits worth between $500 and $1,000 a year. But if he happens to have $1 beyond what is permitted to qualify under this test, he receives none of that at all. There is no tapered test whatsoever. This is a most extraordinary situation - or perhaps it is not, inasmuch as social services are a jungle through which few people can find their way. But I draw attention to the fact that these inequities exist as between those who are qualified and those who are not qualified, and between those who qualify by $1 and those who miss qualification by $1. It is true, as I said, that under the Government's health scheme all will soon be eligible for free medical and hospital care, if there are enough doctors and enough hospital beds to accommodate them. The pensioners health card in the past has been a kind of passport to all good things. It is the open sesame to a sort of paradise. Time has come perhaps when we should forget about this as kind of open sesame to everything and apply tests that are fitting in respect of each one of these particular benefits, or possibly they should be abolished or consolidated and a tapered means test substituted - a tapered means test that poses- 
I ask the Prime Minister whether a retired Arbitration Commissioner of dubious expertise in the field of economics and a bright young man from the field of university Labor politics, now an adviser to the Prime Minister, are regarded as fit and proper persons to participate in a report which apparently took 16 days to produce and which purports to advise the Government on important matters relating to the persistent inflationary situation which is tearing the fabric of our society to ribbons. Would not a council of respected economic advisers, as proposed by the Vernon Commitee and unhappily rejected in a different situation by the then Prime Minister, given time to deliberate and to advise the Parliament and the people as well as the Government, inspire more confidence in a bewildered and strife torn nation? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I claim to have been misrepresented by the Prime Minister in his reply to my question earlier this morning. In his reply he sought to belittle and rubbish me by attacking my credibility as a responsible member of this Parliament. He that filches from me my good name robs me of that which not enriches him and makes me poor indeed, as he knows. The point of my question was that the Winter report was not as authoritative a document as it was made out to be. In his reply, the Prime Minister referred to various eminent gentlemen who, he said, had been consulted and whose authority I would accept as being very important indeed. He referred to a number of people all of whose names I cannot recall but he certainly referred to  Sir John  Crawford,  Sir James  Vernon and, I think, others- 
Professor Karmel and others; I am glad that he reminds me who they were. They were people of great authority. I have looked at the report entitled 'Power over Prices and Incomes' which he tabled yesterday. I find in Appendix 1, the letter of appointment, where the Prime Minister said: 
The Australian Government Departments which have particular responsibilities touching upon the area of your inquiry are the Attorney-General's Department, the 'Department of Labour and the Treasury. These Departments are available to assist you as you require. 
He went on to say: 
I have also arranged that you may call upon the services of the following people who have expertise or knowledge in matters relevant to your inquiry - 
He mentioned Professor F. H. Gruen - for whom I have the highest respect -  Mr B. 
Brogan,  Mr J.  Bannon,  Mr J.  Spigelman - to whom I referred obliquely - and  Mr P.  Troy. He nowhere mentioned those gentlemen to whom he has since referred. The implication in what he said in answer to my question was that I irresponsibly referred to a report which had the backing or endorsement of very eminent people and that I misrepresented the report as not having that backing. There is not a word in the report to indicate that it had their backing. I suggest that, if it had, it would be right and proper that not only the Parliament but the whole community should know that it had their backing. The Prime Minister has stated that it had. I think that we should have the authority of those gentlemen themselves as to whether they did in fact support this document. 
I find in the 'Australian' newspaper of today's date - and it is through the newspapers that the Prime Minister generally seeks to inform the Parliament- 
I want to quote 5 lines in a paragraph. 
I am referring to that point. 
No,  Mr Speaker. 
This is right on the point; I assure you of that,  Mr Speaker.  The newspaper report states: 
Advised by members of the Prime Minister's staff and officers of key departments, a retired Arbitration Commissioner,  Mr T.  Winter, recommends in his report that prices and incomes policies will be necessary to control inflation. and so on. There is not a word in that report of anybody except  Mr Winter  and the Prime Minister's staff. I quote this because it demonstrates the usual method of the Prime Minister in communicating with the Parliament- 
. . . . that is, to do it by newspaper. 
I believe that I have been utterly misrepresented. I ask for an apology. 
I think it is time that the House, or what there is of it, came back to the actual terms of the motion. The motion deals, first, with the question of the means whereby we should decide on a national anthem. The motion advocates that this should be done by a total vote of the Australian people, in other words,, by a referendum. Should it be done by a referendum or by a survey? The second point involved in the motion is that among the alternative anthems included for the decision of the Australian people should be 'God Save the Queen'. If a national anthem is not a symbol of the unity of the nation, it is absolutely nothing. This matter could not have been dealt with in a more divisive fashion than it has been dealt with by the Government, so much so that in the end, whatever the choice is, it might not be acceptable to the bulk of the people. 
What is the difference between a referendum and a survey? There are 2 great differences. One is that a referendum is subject to debate. People have to think and make up their own minds about it. A referendum is very different from a survey of people who have never thought about the matter at all. A referendum means debate, thought and deliberate decision of the people. That is the first thing about a referendum. 
The second thing about a referendum on a national anthem is that it is a matter of considerable emotional content to people and they must feel committed to the decision. However, they will not feel committed to a survey carried out by the Bureau of Census and Statistics. A survey has nothing to do with emotion, whereas the choice of a national anthem is a matter of great emotion to the people. What is the basis for this move? Was it contained in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)?  It was not. Has it been the subject of parliamentary debate? It would not have been, except for the initiative of the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar). 
Now we are going to be told that the choice is to be limited by a ukase of the Prime Minister. We are told that there shall be no choice of 'God Save the Queen'. The argument put up on the Government side by these 2 prime comedians is: 'How shall we know what alternatives to give the people?' The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has been very funny about this matter but,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  can anyone say that the anthem which we have had for 200 years is to be treated in the same fashion as any suggestion, humourous or otherwise, that may be put up? 
The departure from what has happened for 200 years is a matter of enormous consequence and there could be not doubt in the mind of any sensible person that 'God Save the Queen' should be one of the choices for the Australian people. The argument from Government supporters is an indication of the paucity of argument that can be put to the motion. I do not have time enough to deal with this matter as I would like to deal with it, but I say that the way in which anthems have emerged in the past has not been through a survey conducted by a bureau of statistics or in the divisive fashion the Prime Minister has adopted. Anthems have emerged in a natural fashion. 'God Save the King' or 'God Save the Queen' may indeed have been the choice of George II. If that is so, he chose a pretty good tune, anyway, and I would not substitute that choice with the Prime Minister's choice, nor do I think that half the Australian people would substitute that choice. 
Regarding the 'Marsellaise', as has already been said, it arose from the circumstances of the French Revolution. It was composed by an artillery officer in a French division from Marseilles fighting against the invaders of France after the Revolution. The Star Spangled Banner emerged long before it was ever given legislative approval. It was given legislative approval in the last 20 or 30 years, I think, whereas the song had been accepted by the American people for perhaps well over a century. Similarly, the question of whether God Save the King' arose at the time of the 1745 Jacobite Rebellion does not matter in the slightest degree. What matters is that for 200 years it has been our national anthem, and accepted by the people as such. I refer to the colonies into which this nation was finally formed. One cannot say that the nation was formed 70 years ago. The Australian people in their colonies and since Federation as well have accepted 'God Save the Queen' for 200 years. To say that 'God Save the Queen' should not 'be included as a choice, because we do not know who composed it or because some of the words may be silly, is meaningless. God Save the Queen' is established, and it should not be disestablished except by a vote of the Australian people. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr MacKellar's)  be agreed to. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is the honourable gentleman aware that at the current rate of inflation, generally accepted as about 13 per cent, in less than 6 years $100 will lose half its purchasing power, and $1 will be worth two bob in 14 years? Is he aware that this is so? Is he aware that at the rate of 20 per cent - does he see anything to prevent its rising to 20 per cent, say, by next Christmas - that in 4 years $100 would be worth half its present purchasing power, and $1 would be worth two bob in the space of 9 years? Is he aware of these facts? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do indeed. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  speaking to the point of order in respect of my friend the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  said that he believed that the honourable gentleman's absence from the luncheon today was highly selective; that it was due to racial prejudice. 
The Prime Minister says that was inferred. Of course it was inferred; none of us doubt it. I also was absent from that luncheon, and by inference I was absent also on account of racial prejudice. Let me say at once,  Sir, by  way of complete proof that this is wrong thatI had prepared a question today to put to the Prime Minister and I think that if I read a few words it will be perfectly apparent that racial prejudice had nothing whatever to do with my absence. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have the right to put the statement to show where 1 have been misrepresented by the prince who sits opposite. 
Do I have no redress,  Mr Speaker? 
I ask you: Do I have no redress? 
By implication at question time- 
Well, I am leaving this thing that you call a Parliament. 
