My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Following the meeting in February of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, was the question of the sealing of the Eyre Highway from Ceduna to the Western Australian border discussed with the South Australian Minister for Roads? If so, were any undertakings given by the Federal Minister to assist the South Australian Government in the sealing of this vital road to the West? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he received any request from the South Australian Government for financial assistance in providing a water pipeline to Kimba on Eyre Peninsula. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the cost of necessary books and fees a deductible item for tax purposes for a part-time student attending a technical college or similar educational institution. 
If not, will he take the necessary steps to make them deductible items. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What amounts by way of (a) lump sum payments and (b) cost of hearing aids have been paid out by Commonwealth Railways as compensation to employees for loss of hearing due to noise. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he give any information relating to the investigation by Commonwealth Railways and private consultants into the proposed new railway link from Alice Springs to the present East-West railway. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the respective categories of wheat quota allocations made in each State, and what is the number of growers in each category in each State. 
What was the total bushellage represented in each of the respective categories of quotas in (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What percentage of the total wheat produced in  (a)  each State and (b) the Commonwealth falls within the respective categories of quotas up to and including the 12,000 bushel quota. 
asked the Minister for Labour  and National Service, upon notice: 
Is there chronic unemployment amongst Aborigines, particularly the young people, from the Davenport Reserve near Port Augusta, South Australia. 
If so, when will a vocational guidance officer be appointed for the Port Augusta area to assist in overcoming this grave problem. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether he is aware that house rents in Port Augusta and other localities for Commonwealth Railways employees are to be increased by up to 40%. Does the Minister consider this to be just in view of the fact that these houses are tied to Commonwealth Railways employment, that the employees have to vacate the houses on retirement and that families have to vacate them in the event of the death of an employee? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he, in an effort to encourage employment of Aboriginals and thereby reduce the chronic unemployment problems that exist amongst these people in many areas, issue instructions that where Commonwealth Departments and Instrumentalities operate in areas where these conditions exist employment opportunities are to be made available to Aboriginals, particularly in the apprenticeship trades and female clerical grades. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs made available the sum of $38,000 for the appointment of public health officers at Port Augusta, Ceduna and Oodnadatta in South Australia. 
If so, are they Commonwealth or State Department of Health employees. 
To what extent are their duties confined to health problems affecting Aboriginal people. 
Like the last two speakers I come from an electorate that contains a large rural community. My electorate produces 38% of South Australia's wheat. So I can say that it has the same problems as other rural electorates which produce wheat. Whilst I do not intend to say too much about wheat production, I have felt for a long time that farmers have been let down, have been sold down the drain and have not been given the best advice. They have received encouragement which has led to the overproduction of wheat. This over-production is the result not of the activities of the small traditional farmers but of the plantings of people who have been attracted to the industry because of the $1.10 guarantee. In fact, I think theses growers are called Pitt Street or Collins Street farmers. The people who will feel the crunch as a result of this over-production are the small farmers. I hope that the Government will seriously consider ways and means to assist these farmers because unless they are assisted and some definite plan is devised these people will go to the wall. They are in a position similar to that of the small farmers in the 1930s when many had to walk off their blocks. I understand that in my electorate the share farmers have been practically wiped out. This situation applies also to many of the smaller farmers. 
It has been suggested that they could diversify their farming. Beef production has been mentioned. May I suggest one way in which the Federal Government could assist these people? A pipeline is in the process of being constructed from the Polda Basin to Kimba. Kimba is a small, thriving town but it has a water problem. Whenever there is a dry season water has to be carted to Kimba. The State Government decided to construct a pipeline to Kimba from the Polda Basin but because of a shortage of finance this work will be spread over a 5- year period. The South Australian Government has made submissions to the Federal Government for further finance to enable this work to be expedited. I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  in considering this request, will be sympathetic and will provide financial help so that this pipeline can be completed, because it is essential if these wheat farmers are to diversify their activities. 
Many anomalies exist in relation to remote rural areas, such as those on the west coast of South Australia and Eyre Peninsula. One anomaly relates to medical costs. I refer not so much to the actual cost of treatment but to the costs incurred by people in getting to places where they can receive medical attention. Heavy costs are incurred in travelling to Adelaide for specialists' attention. I know that this matter has been raised in the House on previous occasions, but the fact is that these high transportation costs incurred in securing medical attention are not allowed as a tax deduction. I certainly hope that in the discussions prior to the introduction of the next Budget the Government will seriously consider making costs incurred in obtaining medical attention a tax deduction, because people in outlying areas are certainly at a big disadvantage. 
I refer now to roads in my electorate. From Port Augusta a road runs to Western Australia, another one to Port Lincoln - the Lincoln Highway - and another to Alice Springs. Only the road to Port Lincoln is completely sealed. The Eyre Highway to Western Australia is sealed as far as Ceduna but from there to the Western Australian border is a 300-mile section of unsealed and pretty rough road. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  referred to this matter this morning. Honourable members can take our word for it that it is a bad road. We spend considerable sums on defence yet the only road that connects eastern Australia with Western Australia is not completely sealed. For probably half the cost of an Fill aircraft we could seal those 300 miles of the Eyre Highway. The Commonwealth Government should consider providing the finance to enable the sealing of the only road link between the east and the west to be completed expeditiously. 
Telephone installations are a matter of concern to people in remote areas. Recently I was approached by a farmer who resides on the western part of the coast of South Australia. He wanted a telephone connection. He was  H  miles from the nearest connection and in that distance were two other farmers, practically in a straight line, who also wanted telephones installed. They were told that it would cost $5,000 to install the 3 telephones and connect them to an automatic exchange. When I made inquiries on their behalf I was told that if they liked to provide the telephone poles and do a certain part of the work themselves they would get their telephone installations for half that cost. I feel that somewhere along the line these people are being penalised for living in rural areas. It is ridiculous to think that people living in the city can, for 5c, pick up a telephone and talk for hours whereas people in remote areas must face such heavy costs just to get a telephone, quite apart from the high cost of trunk line calls. 
At present there is a big problem in the Coober Pedy and Andamooka opal fields, which are the main producers of opal in Australia. Recently the South Australian 
Government granted exploration leases to a firm called Gem Explorations. I understand that last year this firm applied for exploration leases close to Lightning Ridge in New South Wales but that the New South Wales Government rejected the application. However the South Australian Government has granted 2 exploration leases to this company, 1 of approximately 700 square miles slap bang against the Andamooka field and one of over 1,000 square miles slap bang against the Coober Pedy opal field. I do not claim to know much about opal mining, but people who know something about opals will tell you that opal gougers like to move around the countryside. If they are not doing very well at one location they like to move to another. The people working on the opal fields are highly incensed because the exploratory leases granted to the big company do not permit them to fossick for opals on the land covered by the leases. This situation has caused a lot of strife on the fields. The opal gougers fear that if the big firms find traces of opal dummies will be used to peg further claims. The diggers feel that if this were to happen it could lead to over production of opal and a consequent decline in prices. 
This is an important matter because opal is the only gemstone of any value exported from this country. Last year about $8m worth of opal was exported. Somehow we must protect the people who work on the opal fields. This is an industry based mainly on the individual digger. Machinery, other than windlasses and machinery used to clear overburden, plays no big part in the industry. For the final job of getting at the opal only hand tools can be used. Electronic devices cannot detect the presence of opal. The opal diggers fear that the intrusion of big companies will seriously threaten their livelihood. 
I had intended to say something about the wheat industry, although I do not claim to be an expert on the subject. 1 have spoken to many wheat farmers and I know that they are in trouble. They are very confused. I will say no more on the subject because possibly enough has been said about it already tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.23 a.m. (Friday), 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What are the Government's intentions relating to the extension of television services to the (a) Ceduna/Streaky Bay and (b) Woomera areas of South Australia. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether pensioners v/ho own their own homes and have no other incomes find themselves in serious financial straits in having to meet rates and maintenance costs. 
If so, will the Government give consideration to the payment of an additional allowance to these pensioners similar to that now paid to those pensioners paying rent 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that many cases of economic hardship arise when a husband retires on an age pension at 65 and his wife is below the age of 60 years, and thus only entitled to a wife's allowance of $7 per week under certain circumstances. 
If so, will he give serious consideration to bringing down legislation to provide for the payment of the full pension entitlement to the wife, irrespective of her age. 
Can the Minister for Shipping and Transport state whether, in view of the damage caused by the fire on the tanker 'Amanda Miller* at Whyalla, the disruption to the Whyalla shipyard could bring about any cancellation of present orders due to altered completion dates that could now apply? 
1 would like to follow the last 2 speakers from this side - the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  - and say a few words on the question of the 'Amanda Miller' fire. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  has stated that there are to be 2 inquiries - one by his own Department and the other by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. It is certainly to be hoped that, whatever comes out of those inquiries, lessons will be learnt. 
I look at this matter from the viewpoint that the fire had burned for quite some time before it was actually noticed and by that time it had got out of hand, and that a little later it struck the oxy-propane bottles and oxy-acetylene bottles. By that time it was too late. There are many circumstances that can arise in a place such as Whyalla and in the confined space of a ship. We must remember that this incident did occur out in the open. A lot of this equipment is inside the ship and there are many circumstances that can arise. A fire can occur suddenly in oxy-acetylene equipment. I have had considerable experience in the handling of oxy-acetylene and oxy-propane equipment. I have seen plenty of things happen in a very short space of time. When a fire suddenly breaks out when this equipment is in the open, if one is unlucky the fire can get out of control. 
In normal working hours a few hundred men would have been working on this ship. The fact that the men had knocked off at 3 o'clock on the Saturday afternoon does not come into this matter. Normally, if a fire starts as a results of a particular set of circumstances, such as sparks hitting an oxy hose, there is a fire within the bowels of the ship where this equipment is. If the fire suddenly gets out of control, with hundreds of men inside the ship, the fire fighting equipment is just not good enough. 
I understand that it is a fact that the Whyalla shipyard fire tender had been out of action for a couple of months. I believe that in the inquiries the reason why that happened should be really probed. The reason why there was low water pressure, as was alleged earlier, should also be probed deeply. These are the things that we hope will come out of the inquiries. Surely if 2 inquiries are to be held lessons will be learnt. Let us hope that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd takes pretty good note of the lessons to be learnt. I have had a fair deal to do with safety first procedures. It was always our opinion that BHP was one company to which we could always look up and point as an example of a firm that really took a keen interest in safety first procedures. 1 think it has the best safety precautions I have come across up to date, but apparently that does not apply to the fire fighting equipment in its shipyard in this case. I am sure that, whatever comes out of the inquiry, BHP will certainly learn a lesson. 
Criticism has been levelled at the local fire unit at Whyalla. One must remember that the local fire unit in Whyalla is a small volunteer unit and that the BHP works are outside the town boundaries. I think the men of the Whyalla fire unit did a magnificent job. I have had a bit of experience with these voluntary fire fighting units in my own town and I know the sterling job they do. I am sure that the crew at Whyalla are of the same calibre, but their attempts to hold the fire, as we know, failed because the fire just got out of hand. 
We should also look at the attitude of the South Australian Government to fire fighting equipment, because too many of the big towns in South Australia rely on voluntary fire brigades. We would hope that the South Australian Government has learned a lesson from what happened here and that it will go into the whole question of fire protection in country towns and try to bring in an improved system of fire protection. I certainly hope that, whatever comes out of these inquiries, lessons will be learned and that steps will be taken to rectify any faults. There may be 200 to 300 men inside a ship, and if something goes wrong, as is quite possible - it has happened plenty of times before - and the fire fighting equipment is not there, there can be deaths. In this case there was only one casualty, and possibly it can be said that we are lucky there was only this one casualty. Let us hope that these lessons will be learned and that the Whyalla shipyards will become a place with adequate fire protection. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice; 
What arrangements have been made regarding the payment of royalties in respect of operations at Gove in the Northern Territory. 
To whom will theroyalties be paid. 
What arrangements have been made for the distribution of the royalties; to whom will they be paid. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the National Health and Medical Research Council made any recommendations relating to the free supply of oxygen to pensioners when required for medical reasons. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. In view of the intended phasing out of the use of the Woomera Rocket Range by the European Launcher Development Organisation can the Minister gave an indication of the future effect on the Woomera Rocket Range and the effect on the people now employed on the project? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do the present pro rata provisions of the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act place Commonwealth employees at a disadvantage in comparison with many other long service leave arrangements. 
Has he given any further consideration to amending the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act to make furlough grants for Commonwealth employees applicable pro rata after 10 years' service, instead of the present period of 15 years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are the facilities of the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories made available to industry for the determination of industrial noise levels and the provision of advice on ways and means of eliminating dangerous noise. 
If so, can arrangements be made with the Department of Shipping and Transport and the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner to have the Laboratories carry out comprehensive tests in the railway workships at Port Augusta to determine noise levels and recommend ways of reducing the excessive and dangerous noise hazard existing there. 
I am prepared to support the Bill, as were the 2 previous speakers. I am aware of the early history of the possibility of the construction of a railway line to Whyalla. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said that the credit for this line should go to  Sir Thomas  Playford. I know that  Sir Thomas  Playford made a statement about 12 years ago indicating that he wanted a line to Whyalla. 1 particularly remember him stating to a deputation, of which I was a member, that he would build it with State finance if he could raise it and that he would also buy the railway line from Port Augusta to Port Pirie, if he got the chance, and link it with the State system. Of course, that was not to be. The next stage of the construction of the railway line to Whyalla was reached in 1964, as stated by the Mnister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  when its practicability was investigated. When examined as to whether it would be an economic proposition it was decided that it would not be a paying concern and the idea was dropped. 
Of course, at that time the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd believed in moving all its steel out of Whyalla by ship. However, with the establishment of the steel works in Whyalla and with greatly increased production there was a change in the attitude of BHP. I understand that BHP had a very bad record as a deliverer of goods. My authority for that statement is a BHP official. Small purchases of steel had to wait until a ship was available to carry their goods to the eastern States or wherever they wanted it. This resulted in a great deal of delay. Small manufacturers wanting steel in 40 ton or SO ton lots just had to wait until the boat arrived. 1 think BHP realises that its bad marketing record would affect it, particularly in view of the fact that there was talk of other steel works opening in Australia. In this case possibly the BHP monopoly could be broken. As a result of this talk we saw a change in attitude by BHP. lt instituted the system which is operating at the present time where it carts its steel by truck from Whyalla to Port Augusta, puts the steel on the Commonwealth Railway trucks, and then it is taken to the eastern and western States. At present between 600 and 700 tons of steel a day is being carted in heavy trucks. I know that the sooner this railway line is completed the better it will be for BHP, because the road from Whyalla to Port Augusta is being torn to pieces. There are load limits on the bridge across the Gulf at Port Augusta. This means that trucks that weigh more than 16 tons have to make a wide detour around the top of the Gulf, which I think is an extra 16 miles each journey. So the sooner the railway line is completed the better it will be. As I said, the road is already starting to break up. Men arc continually working on it and trying to maintain it to a standard which is safe for motorists. This road is built for light traffic and is not built to carry this heavy traffic. 
When we look at the railway map of Australia and see that we have now a standardised system from Perth right through to Sydney, through to Brisbane and down to Melbourne, I think it is a little ridiculous that we have this 47 miles of railway line which is not standardised. BHP has at Whyalla the third biggest steel complex in Australia and all it requires is this 47 miles of railway. That is why we fully support this proposition that the line go through. I know that there is a feeling in some quarters of Whyalla against the railway. These people feel that public money is being used to boost BHP. I suppose in a sense this is correct, but we cannot stand in the way of progress, irrespective of whether it is helping BHP or anyone else. BHP is one of the major steel producers of the nation, and I feel that if we are to gain the greatest advantage from this company it must be connected to the general railway system. 
I would like to refer to a matter that the Minister mentioned in his speech and which is also included in the Bill. I refer to the cost of the railway. If we look back over our Australian history we will find that the greatest political blunders of all time have been committed in our rauilway system. Last century we finished up with 3 railway systems. The States had agreed to lay down a certain gauge of track, but then they changed their mind and we finished up with the shemozzle that we had until about 15 or 20 years ago. One of the mistakes that we should not make with this railway is to skimp on costs. The Minister said that it will cost $7m to complete this railway. Costs have probably been rising since the investigations were made, and I would certainly hope that, because a limit of $7m has been put on the railway, we will not skimp on it and finish up with a railway that is not really 100% or something that could have been made more up to date by the spending of a little bit more money. 
There have been some big advances in the techniques of laying railway tracks and in the use of materials for the laying of the tracks. I would prefer the use of concrete sleepers. I know that the Commonwealth railway has been experimenting with concrete sleepers. Using concrete sleepers might work out slightly dearer than using wooden sleepers. But if we bear in mind maintenance costs over a great number of years we would probably find that the extra initial cost of concrete sleepers would bc saved over a long period. So I would hope that in limiting expenditure to $7m we do not reach the stage where we have to skimp on the railway because of lack of finance. If costs rise I hope enough finance will be made available to ensure that a really first class job is done on this railway. 
The Minister said that the railway would carry light traffic. I assume from that statement that a lighter type of rail would be used - say an 80 lb rail. I would suggest that while we are doing the job it should be done properly and the heavier 94 lb rail, which the Commonwealth Railways used on its standardised system, should be used. 
There is another matter to which I would like to refer. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  also referred to it. I am speaking about the laying of the tracks. The Commonwealth Railways has some very competent track laying engineers, lt has competent and experienced staff. They have shown in various projects which they have carried out that they are competent to do this job. I suggest to the Minister that serious consideration be given to allowing the Commonwealth Railways to carry out this work. I can remember a few years ago when the Commonwealth Railways were re-laying part of the track between Port Augusta and Port Pirie. A train used to leave Port Augusta about 4 o'clock in the afternoon. It would be carrying 6 lengths of fully welded, fully fabricated, track with the sleepers and dog spikes in position but not driven home. This train would travel to a place about 30 miles from Port Augusta. With the assistance of floodlights tractors would rip the old line out and pull new length of line into position. It is amazing just how much line they would lay in the time that they were there. A train would go over this particular section at possibly 4 o'clock in the afternoon and then another train would come back the other way at possibly 5 or 6 o'clock in the morning. I am not sure of the times, lt is marvellous the job those men were able to do between the passage of those 2 trains. So I suggest to the Minister that serious consideration be given to the employment of the present Commonwealth Railways staff to do the track laying. I think we can be assured of getting a good job. It will be done by experienced engineers and experienced fettling staff. I am sure that the job will be 100%. Another advantage is that the Commonwealth Railways can do the fabricating right beside its butt welding depot. I am sure that it could be worked out so that the Commonwealth Railways staff could do the whole job. 
Perhaps 1 could refer to the benefit that the line will bring to Whyalla. We know that one of the main sources of benefit will be that steel products can be taken from the BHP works at Whyalla and distributed to all parts of Australia. It would certainly step up the distribution of our steel. There is no diversification of industry in Whyalla. We are all aware that it has a steelworks and it has the biggest shipbuilding yards in Australia. These are 2 big heavy industries. All employment is oriented towards those 2 industries. But this creates problems because most of the migrant women in the population are used to taking jobs. When they go to Whyalla they find there is practically nothing in the way of employment for married women or, for that matter, for single girls, which should be the most important consideration. Some Government assistance may be necessary - possibly from the States  -  to try to bring about some diversification of industry in Whyalla. This is essential to a more balanced growth of the whole area. At the present time there is no big light industry in Whyalla employing women. One of the advantages that I hope will come from the building of this railway is that it will attract light industries to Whyalla which are capable of employing women and so give the whole area, which is after all in a bit of an isolated pocket of South Australia, a more balanced economy, lt would certainly help to make people in the area more contented, which makes for the building of a better community. I am sure that the railway can assist in this regard. 
I know that the main argument which has been put up against the establishment of industries in country areas has been the fact that raw materials have to be carted to the country. If we look at the railway map of Australia, with the completion of this line to Whyalla there will not be a great deal of difference in the distance between Sydney and Whyalla and Sydney and Adelaide, assuming that the Adelaide line will be linked up. We would also hope that the building of this railway line will take away this feeling of isolation, this feeling of being a company city, because this is the feeling that you get in Whyalla. Everything revolves around the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Industrial relations in Whyalla are not good. There is a big brother atmosphere. It is a case of the company versus the rest. I hope that the diversification of industry in Whyalla, which the railway will help to bring about, will relieve that situation which has been brought about by the big brother attitude. Whyalla has a unique type of local government; BHP has been able to nominate 50% of local government members and this has helped to build up bad public relations. 1 hope that the railway will be able to bring about relief of this situation. 
If honourable members look at the Second Schedule of the Bill they will see that provision is made for the extension of the railway line from Whyalla. From what I can see, the only possible extension would be to the Eyre Peninsula in the western part of South Australia. In the Eyre Peninsula there are about 450 miles of narrow gauge railway line. The line was built with light rails from about 1900 to 1926. It is in a very bad, rundown condition. The State Government has allocated a certain amount of money to bc spent over a number of years to upgrade that line, but I am afraid that the money allocated will not be enough to do a proper job. I envisage that the only extension to the line from Whyalla could be to link up with the Eyre Peninsula railway at Kimba. This is a distance of 80 miles. I hope that that is kept in mind in the future so that the Eyre Peninsula can be brought into the general railway system. We know that the Eyre Peninsula has a narrow gauge system, but we know also what can be done with bogie exchange or gantry transfer systems. I am sure that the problem of the break of gauge can be overcome more easily now than in the past. 
The linking of the railway line to the Eyre Peninsula will assist that area, which at the present time is going through a crisis because of the wheat position. 1 hope that money will be provided to complete the Kimba-Polda pipeline and so give producers in the upper Eyre Peninsula a chance to diversify. If the line is connected to Kimba, they will have an outlet to markets for the sale of their produce. This must be looked upon as a long range project. I certainly hope that it will become the pattern for the future, that the narrow gauge system will be linked up with the standard gauge system. As was said earlier, a lot of activity has taken place concerning the railways in that part of South Australia. Port Augusta I think we must admit, is the hub of our transport system. It is right in the centre; road and rail transport branch out in all directions. I hope that this will not be the last railway construction that we shall see in that part of South Australia. 
We have seen the standard gauge go through to Marree. Now we shall see the line go through to Whyalla. The IndianPacific link through Broken Hill has now been completed. Big advances have taken place in railway transport over the last few years. 1 hope that there will be more. As mentioned by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  I hope it is not too long before an announcement is made about the line linking Alice Springs with the east-west line at Tarcoola, because of the dislocation that takes place in wet years on the north-south narrow gauge line north of Marree. Last but not least 1 mention the need for a standardised gauge to Adelaide. I hops (hat in the very near future announcements will be made about the progress of these projects. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What progress has been made on the proposed erection of an Aboriginal Health Hostel at Port Augusta, South Australia. 
When is it anticipated that the building will be completed. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that discontent exists amongst age pensioners concerning the differential rates that apply between single and married age pensioners. 
If so, will he ensure that these differential rates are considered during the preparation of the Budget with a view to their abolition. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In order to obviate the necessity for many pensioners to rely on charitable collections of second-hand spectacles, will he consider bringing down legislation to provide assistance where needed for age and invalid pensioners in the examination for and the supply of spectacles. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has the work force normally engaged in the health keeping services at Woomera been suddenly reduced by 30 per cent. 
Was this reduction effected without prior expert investigation and in the face of strong opposition by the local administration. 
Have thousands of trees and shrubs established at Woomera at very great cost over a period of 20 years been allowed to die off because of outside area mismanagement and lack of labour. 
Have bottles of all kinds been allowed to accumulate in gutters and on footpaths to the danger of children. 
Has this accumulation taken place since December 1969. 
Have room heating stoves been arbitrarily removed from houses in Woomera in the face of strong opposition from the occupants of the homes. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Is it a fact that residents living outside areas where adequate medical attention is available are gravely disadvantaged by having to incur travelling expenses to obtain adequate medical 
If so, will he consider making expenses incurred in obtaining medical attention, such as travel to medical centres for specialist attention, an allowable deduction for taxation purposes. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the grant of a fare concession of 50 per cent to age pensioners for travel on Commonwealth Railways, will he consider granting a similar concession to retired superannuated Commonwealth Railway employees who are not in possession of a pensioner entitlement card, in addition to the one free pass per year to which they are now entitled. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What was the value of (a) opal mined in Australia (b) opal exports and (c) the production of opal from (i) Andamooka and (ii) Coober Pedy Opal Fields in South Australia, during the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Have the submissions from the South Australian Government for financial assistance to complete the Polda Kimba pipeline on Eyre Peninsula yet been considered under the Commonwealth's National Water Resources Development programme ('Hansard', 17th March 1970, page 525). 
If so, when will the decision be announced. 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service able to give any information about the appointment of 2 vocational guidance officers of his Department at Port Augusta to assist in overcoming problems concerning the employment of Aboriginals in that area of South Australia? When will the appointments be finalised? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of ' Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Grey respectfully showeth. 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent television and radio programmes; 
That their- concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are. contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and' television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I support the remarks of other honourable members on this side of the House who have drawn attention to the inadequacies of the Budget and particularly the inadequate increases in social service benefits. In approaching social services the Government has been quiet ineffective. Our strongest condemnation is directed towards the Government's attitude with regard to age pensions. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and other honourable members on the Government side have said that by granting a pittance of SOc a week to pensioners the Government has retained pensions at a high peak. In his second reading speech the Minister compared pension rates today with those that existed in 1947, 1948 and 1949 when Labor was last in office. It is strange for us suddenly to hear that Ben Chifley was, in the view of honourable members opposite, something of a Messiah. We have always looked upon Ben Chifley as a Messiah; now we are told by honourable members opposite that he was a good Treasurer. Of course he was. A former Liberal Premier of South Australia,  Sir Thomas  Playford, considered that Ben Chiflley was the best Treasurer Australia ever had. It is a little hypocritical of honourable members opposite now to take this attitude because one cannot validly compare conditions in 1949 with conditions existing today. The situation between 1947 and 1949 was that Australia had just fought a war. It had moved from a war time economy to a peace time economy. It was still recovering from the economic effects of the war. To compare that period with the present time is hypocritical. 
When comparing pensions we might also compare child endowment rates. In the campaign preceding the elections of 1949 the Liberal and Country Party promised, if elected, to grant child endowment in respect of the first child. But since 1949 we have not seen the rate of child endowment increase to any great extent. It has been increased marginally but the purchasing power of child endowment today cannot compare with its purchasing power in 1949. This factor has been overlooked in the Budget. But it is not the only matter to be overlooked. Since my election to this Parliament many pensioners have come to my office and my home with problems about many matters. I know that most honourable members have had the same experience. But since the Budget was brought down the number of people calling on me has increased. There is no doubt that the pension pittance handed out in the Budget and its callous attitude towards pensioners has aroused in them a feeling of disgust towards the Government. 
One person who has been completely ignored is the age pensioner with a wife under 60 years of age. Under certain conditions, such as if she has a child in her care, she is entitled only to a wife's allowance. In about 15 per cent of cases the wife is 5 or more years younger than her husband. Many of these women have raised a family and cared for a home for years. When they are 57 or 58 years of age and their husband reaches 65 years of age they find that they have to look for a job in order to augment their husband's pension. The alternative is to try to live on the single pension. For its attitude towards these people the Government stands condemned. Compare the Government's policy with the policy of the Labor Party as enunciated prior to the last elections by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who gave ari assurance that in such cases a pension would be paid to the wife irrespective of her age. 
Honourable members raised many matters for consideration during the debate on the Budget but very few of those matters have been dealt with by the Government. The Government has done nothing towards solving the problem faced by pensioners in meeting maintenance costs on their homes. Land rates and home maintenance costs have increased alarmingly in recent years. The Government should do something to assist pensioners who paid for their homes during their working lives. With continuing changes in assessed value of properties, many of these people find themselves unable to pay local government- rates. Their plight seems to have been forgotten by the Government. 
The plight of elderly migrants is another matter that has been overlooked by this Government. If these people have not been in Australia for 10 years they are not entitled to the age pension. In certain circumstances they are entitled to supplementary assistance but my experience indicates that their fortunes must be at bedrock level before they may receive assistance from the Government. Recently I had drawn to my attention the problem of a migrant of 65 years of age who was receiving nothing from the Government because his family was working. We even apply these restrictions to migrants from Commonwealth countries, such as Malta. This matter has been raised in the House on other occasions. Because we do not have reciprical arrangements with Malta, migrants from that country are not eligible for the age pension. 
The Government should consider providing free optical and optometrical services for pensioners. I am aware that these services are applied in some States on a State basis. To make it more uniform it should be applied throughout the whole breadth of the country so that pensioners, irrespective of which State they live in, could avail themselves of this service. We know that most of the age pensioners have reached an age where, in all probability, glasses are a necessity. The institution of a scheme to assist them with optical and optometrical services would be of great assistance to them. 
Let us look at the pension rate increase. It does not even cover the increases in the prices of basic commodities that have occurred since the last Budget. We can expect that the value of the pension increase will fall further before the pensioners can expect any further increase in the next Budget. Surely this nation, with its growing wealth, its increasing mineral exports and its expanding economy, could give a fairer go to our older citizens. Do we see these people as being the possible cause of the inflationary pressures because we have given them a little extra purchasing power? Does the extra money given to them increase that pressure? When we look at the increase that the age pensioners will receive, we do not find it being spent on luxury goods or on motor cars. Pensioners do not buy new refrigerators every year. We find that it is being spent on the necessities of life, such as food and clothing. 
If we are attempting to solve our problem of inflation by using the pensioners as a means of doing so I am afraid that we are getting our priorities mixed up. Let us look at what the pensioner would possibly spend his SOc a week on. If he saved it up for about 10 weeks he could perhaps buy a pair of shoes. It might buy an extra dozen eggs a week. Certainly the pensioners are not going to spend the additional money on the goods which would put inflationary pressure on the economy. I hope that we will not use the pensioners as a partial means of trying to solve our inflationary problem. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee of his Department yet made any recommendations regarding the supply of free oxygen to age pensioners when required for medicinal purposes. 
asked, the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Are the wharf facilities at Port Augusta controlled by Commonwealth Railways. 
If so does the Government accept any responsibility for the maintenance of the approaches to this port. 
Is it a fact that there is a sand bar, rock bar, or some other such obstruction in the approaches to the port that limits the size of ships which can use it. 
If so, what action would need to be taken to remove the obstruction to enable larger ships to use the port. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Grey respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pension may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Shipping and Transport been drawn to the comments in the Adelaide News' last week by the South Australian Railways Commissioner concerning the Maunsell report on the linking of Adelaide to the standard gauge railway? If so, is the Minister now in a position to state whether the request of the South Australian Government for an examination of the alternative proposal of the South Australian Railways Commissioner is to be agreed to before the adoption of the Maunsell report? 
I would like to address my remarks to our present arbitration system. Whilst I would assume most honourable members are aware of the history of our arbitration system I would like to point out that this system was evolved in the late part of the last century. With the coming of federation, in 1904 a Commonwealth Act was brought into effect. The Act at that time did not have a great deal of power but since it came into force we have seen the Act changed many times. In the 1950s it was felt that the Act did not have any teeth so it was decided that it should be altered to give it teeth. We have seen industrial relations fall since that day because of the operation of the penal clauses that resulted from the teeth that were put into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We have reached the stage now where the unions are gradually losing faith in the arbitration system. In fact, 18 months or so ago we saw a dispute over the penal clauses. This dispute arose after many years of indiscriminate use of the penal clauses for the slightest pretext. 
We saw a blow-up with the Tramway Employees Union case in which there were mass stoppages throughout Australia against the penal clauses. Since then we have seen a slackening off and a slight alteration of the Act. Although this alteration does not take away the penal clauses it does provide some machinery which will help to .solve disputes before they reach a stage where stoppages take place. Another aspect which I think is responsible for the unions and the employee organisations losing faith in the system is the fact that in most cases - this happened in the national wage case, in the total wage case and in the oil industry dispute where the profitability of industry came in - we have seen the Federal Government come in on the side of the employers or come in and put forward the same case as is presented by the employers. 
It is for these reasons that I feel the employee organisations are losing faith in the arbitration system. It has often been said that the arbitration system gives great protection to the employees of this country. But there is quite a lot of emloyees who receive no protection. This is the case . of employees who work in country towns, where possibly union organisations are hot so strong. Employees in country towns generally work in small groups and they do not receive the protection that they' are supposed to get from the arbitration system. 
I know from my personal experience that where small groups of employees are working in isolated areas they usually work under far 'less favourable conditions than those laid down in the award unless they are visited by a union official. Often they do not receive, the penalty rates to which they are entitled. . On many , occasions I have found penalty rates not being applied. I have seen instances where an employer has paid a flat rate whether the employee has been working on a Saturday or .a Sunday or at any other time. That sort of thing is still happening. In many cases employees find their long service leave conditions whittled down because they are working in isolated areas. In order to overcome these problems it is necessary, for us to appoint more arbitration inspectors. Whilst we know that the federal arbitration system does not apply to workers who do not belong to, organisations registered. with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the appointment of more arbitration inspectors tq visit country towns would ensure that decent working conditions apply. . 
Only a few weeks ago an official of the Electrical Trades Union of : Australia visited Darwin and on his return he mentioned quite a few of the things that he had found. He spoke of employees not being paid proper penalty rates or not receiving conditions to which they were entitled. I remember that when I visited Alice Springs and went through quite a few of the workshops there I found that exactly the same sort of thing was happening there. I suggest that we make sure that the arbitration system affords the protection that it is supposed to give and I recommend the appointment of more arbitration inspectors so that workers' conditions can be protected in the smaller country areas. Another matter which is of importance in country areas- is the possibility of intimidation in cases where an employee feels that he would like to join a union. I have found on many occasions that an employee has been told that if he joins a union he .will be sacked. This is another reason for the appointment of more arbitration inspectors to assist workers in country areas. 
Perhaps I could mention now a few points concerning industrial relations in my own area. Whyalla, which is in my electorate, has the largest shipbuilding industry in Australia and one of Australia's giant steel complexes. It is controlled, of course, by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. We all know the size of the BHP company these days. It has become a vast octopus. I do not decry its efficiency, but certainly I would decry the company's attitude in industrial relations; In no town where BHP operates to any extent will it be found that industrial relations can be admired. In Whyalla there have been many disputes in recent times. Some have lasted much longer than should have been the case, mainly because of the attitude of the employer. If the company had adopted a policy of conciliation, of getting round the table and trying to talk things out. many of these disputes would not have occurred. One dispute which I recall concerned a man who refused to join a union because of his reigious beliefs. Although other members of the same religious organisation had joined the union, the dispute was allowed to go on for 3 or 4 weeks, during which time work stopped. Yet with good public relations that dispute could have been resolved. 
Another dispute which occurred just recently concerned men engaged on the building of the oil tanker 'Amanda Miller'. The employees had. made an approach to be paid ship repair rates for working on the 'Amanda Miler' which had been burnt out, but BHP refused to pay this rate. As a result a dispute arose, But the point is that the feeling generated in this dispute did not originate in the claim for ship repair rates to be paid for work on the Amanda Miller9. Because of the attitude of the company to union officials on the job, because it had them escorted from the site and refused to allow them to interview new employees coming on. the job, a feeling of resentment was built up among employees, as a result of which there was a" strike which lasted for 3 weeks or a month. The dispute was put into the hands of a conciliation commissioner who refused to hear the case until the men went back to work. When they had returned to work he dealt with the matter and granted ship repair rates to the men working on that job. This was a case where, if bad public relations had not been permitted to develop, it could have been resolved without the long stoppage that occurred. There have been a number of cases along similar lines and this is why I say that industrially things at Whyalla are not as they should be. In one dispute my own union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia, was fined a few thousand dollars because it refused to revoke a democratic decision to limit overtime to 12 hours. Because its members would not exceed 12 hours the union was hauled before the court. Whyalla is basically a company town. Until a few months ago even local government was under some control by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Whyalla was controlled by a special commission that was set up to manage the town. The Whyalla Town Commission consisted of 4 nominees of BHP, 4 elected members and an independent chairman. 
A few years ago Australia was the venue of a conference organised by the Duke of Edinburgh. Its main theme was the effect of industrial relations on the human being. Anyone who read the book that was published following the conference could readily recognise various industrial towns in Australia by the comments that were passed by some of the delegates. I am sure that many lessons could be learned from this book. As a means of trying to improve industrial relations in Whyalla a copy of the book should be sent to every director of BHP and its industrial officers as well as to those who come into contact with employees of -the company. I conclude by saying that in our arbitration and conciliation system I should like to see less emphasis on arbitration and more emphasis on conciliation. By so doing a better understanding can be gained of what the ordinary working class problems are and we could ensure that the ordinary industrial worker receives his fair share of the nation's wealth. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In view of the very poor radio reception on the West Coast area of Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, will he take steps to expedite the establishment of the proposed National Broadcasting Station at Streaky Bay. 
When is it anticipated that the station will be completed and operational. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Have the submissions of the South Australian Government for financial assistance to complete the construction of the Polda-Kimba water main on Eyre Peninsula been considered under the National Water Resources Development Programme. 
If so, what decision has been made. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of of the House of Representatives in Parliament, assembled. The humble petition of electors pf Grey respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. - 
We ' therefore call upon the Commonwealth -Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent: of the average weekly male ' earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with the Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to  bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the social service pension may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever Bray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has there been any approach to the Office of Aboriginal Affairs for financial assistance in the purchase of Mount Arden Station, near Port Augusta, South Australia, for development by Aborigines as a rural property. 
If so, were any feasibility studies carried out by any section of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs to determine whether this property could be developed as (a) a viable property which could be successfully worked or (b) a training area for Aborigines in pastoral industry requirements. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Does any Commonwealth organisation exist to foster (a) decentralisation by close co-operation with State organisations set up for this purpose and (b) the balanced development of suitable regional areas to ensure that gainful employment opportunities are available, not only to adult males, but also to adult females and the young people of both sexes. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assmbled. The humble petition of electors of Grey respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly' pray that the House of Representatives iri Parliament -assembled wilt take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pension' may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
 Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has he been advised that the Premier  of  South Australia,  Mr D.  A. Dunstan, has written  to  the Prime Minister asking that before the recommendations  of  the Maunsell Report  on  Rail  notice were circulated: 
Standardisation in South Australia are adopted, consideration be given to the alternate proposals submitted by the South Australian Railways Commissioner. 
If so, what developments have taken place on this matter. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of die undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian educa tion system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants. Aboriginal, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport I acknowledge the reply which I received from the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  in connection with the Maunsell report and the objections of the South Australian Railways Commissioner to certain facets of that report. A few weeks ago 1 asked the Minister a question on this matter and in his reply he appeared to blame the newly elected South Austraiian Labor Government for the delay that. had taken place, but my information is that after the Maunsell report came out it was examined by  Mr Fitch,  the South Australian Railways Commissioner.  Mr Fitch  had certain criticisms of the report. 1 understand that his criticisms or comments were not passed on by the former government. When the Labor Government took over in South Australia it examined  Mr Fitch's  proposals and passed them on to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  with a request for a reconsideration of the proposals. 
Perhaps 1 could mention % few of the objections that he raised. Although  Mr Fitch  did not tear the Maunsell report to pieces he did feel that there were some aspects of it which could be improved. He felt that the Maunsell plan would not provide a direct standard gauge connection to the bulk of South Australian industry, lt would involve the retention of a great deal of freight transfer while necessitating a longer haul to Port Pirie, Broken Hill and destinations in other States. It would result in the retention of the narrow gauge lines to Wilmington and Quorn, together with triple gauge yards at Gladstone and Peterborough. It would also introduce a dual gauge yard at Snowtown. Maunsell's estimates do not allow for development of commercial activities at Islington. 
I feel that these criticisms are sufficient to justify another look at the proposals because  Mr Fitch  did submit 2 alternative proposals which, if accepted or if something could be worked out, would give a better service to industrial areas in South Australia, and this is something that the Maunsell plant would not provide. I would certainly hope that in discussions between the South Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government some satisfactory arrangements will be achieved so that Adelaide gets its standard gauge line and a line which will give the maximum amount of service to South Australian industry. 
I would like to pass on to another matter which concerns my electorate. I refer to proposals that we on this side have fully supported. I refer to the building of the railway line to Whyalla and the allocation of $230,000 for a survey from Tarcoola to Alice Springs, which was mentioned by the honourable  member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  We on this side hope that these projects are brought to fruition within the next few years. 
On numerous occasions the question of sealing the Eyre Highway has been raised in this Parliament by honourable members from South Australia and Western Australia. This roadway, as all honourable members will be aware, has 300 miles of unsealed surface. When this matter has been raised with the Minister he has stated that South Australia receives so much for its roads and that this highway is within the State's jurisdiction and that the State sets the priorities. I think we would acknowledge this but at the same time we must realise that, in considering the allocation to South Australia for roads, for South Australia to put all its eggs in the one basket is not being reasonable. In my electorate, through which this unsealed section of the Eyre Highway passes, there is also the road known as the Flinders Highway, which extends to Port Lincoln to link up with the Eyre Highway at Ceduna. There is also the north-south road, mentioned by the honourable member for the Northern Territory, which services the Woomera rocket range. Along all these roads major projects are being undertaken. On the Woomera road another 39 miles of track will be sealed. On the Flinders highway and on the Eyre Highway further work is being undertaken. 
The State Government is doing work on a section of the Eyre Highway from Ceduna to Penong, a distance of 45 miles, but under present arrangements this project will take approximately 2 years to complete, lt appears as though the work is being undertaken in a piecemeal fashion. I suggest that the Government should look at this project and make a special grant to assist in the completion of the road.  Mr Don  Dunstan, the South Australian Premier, raised this matter when he was speaking during the weekend at a dinner in Whyalla which was sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce. He referred to the question of tourism and so forth. He stated that he would be prepared to meet one-third of the cost of completing this road if the Commonwealth would come to the party and meet the other two-thirds of the cost. 1 believe that this is too big a job for one State to handle on its own. 1 suggest that the Commonwealth should come to the party. It should have discussions with the South Australian Premier to see whether some arrangement can be made so that this highway can be sealed. Figures relating to the use of this highway indicate that approximately 133 vehicles travel over this road each day, and that a fair proportion of these vehicles is heavy transport. The figures also indicate that the number of vehicles travelling over this road is increasing by approximately 21 per cent per annum, which means that the amount of traffic is doubling every 3i to 4 years. lt is significant to note that 83 per cent of the vehicles travelling over this road come from beyond the State of South Australia. Probably they come from the eastern States and are moving westward to other points. 1 believe that because of this fact it is a little hard to place the whole burden for sealing this road upon one State. I believe that there is a need for the Commonwealth to come to the party and to provide some assistance. 
As I have a couples of minutes left perhaps 1 should mention one other matter. I refer to the question of shipyards in Australia. We know that our biggest shipyard is at Whyalla. At the present time this shipyard is building the 'Amanda Miller', which is a ship of 62,000 tons. Those people who had an opportunity to look at the 'Amanda Miller' after the fire in the shipyard realised that because of lack of width of the slipway the fire fighting appliances could not be taken down to get to the seat of the fire, ft is obvious that a fairly large ship was being built in an area which was too small to accommodate it. 1 understand that the only docking facilities in Australia which are capable of handling a 62,000 ton ship are possibly the Cairncross dock in Brisbane, which is capable of taking ships up to 60,000 tons, and the Captain Cook naval dockyard in Sydney, which I think is capable of taking ships up to 100,000 tons. It is obvious that if we are going to move into the field of building bigger ships we will certainly have to provide larger slipways. 
I know that some time ago there was talk that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd had approached the Federal Government for a loan which was to be used to extend the company's slipways so that bigger ships could be built there. If we reach the stage where we want to build bigger ships - 80,000-tonners and so forth - we will find ourselves in the position where we will not have adequate docking facilities. Later when the Minister is replying to this debate I should like him to comment on the Government's plans regarding the building of further dockyards, if we are to take ships bigger than the 'Amanda Miller'. Also, I should like to know the Government's plans regarding the siting of future dockyards. If there is any plan to build new dry docks, to my way of thinking the obvious place in which to locate one would be Whyalla because it has the largest ship building yards in Australia. It has trained engineering staff, skilled tradesmen and so on. It is also in a sheltered position. From a defence point of view, it is away from  the main waterways. I believe that if we reach the stage where a new dockyard is to be built, Whyalla would be the logical place in which to build it. 
First of all 1 would like to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  I think that all honourable members on this side of the House, and I am sure quite a few honourable members on the other side, would agree that there is a need for a much more comprehensive programme for the welfare and housing of Aboriginals. The only way in which this can be done is to find out what the needs are and to work out some programme over a period so that it will not be done year by year as appears to be the case now; The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said that earlier this year a team of us went on a trip to the northern parts of New South Wales. Whilst we were there we had a look at some of the settlements along the banks of the Barwon River. I am sure that all of us in that team came away rather appalled at what we had seen. We knew that these fringe settlements were there but I did not expect them to be nearly as bad as they actually were. We found that the fringe dwellers were usually on the other side of the river from the main parts of the towns, with only one water pipe to serve a group of 30 or 40 shacks occupied by people. 
We had a discussion with a Presbyterian Minister at Walgett. He has a very keen and genuine interest in the problems which face Aboriginals. He informed us that according to a survey which he had conducted 75 houses would be required in Walgett to solve the problem of Aboriginal housing. The figures which the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  gave show that in Walgett there were 5 houses. The Presbyterian Minister said that from his survey Walgett would need 75 houses but as of last year there were 5 houses. This discrepancy emphasises the need to determine what the actual needs are. We should have a crash programme. It should not be a long range programme but a wide-ranging programme to find out what the needs are and we should get on with the job of overcoming the deficiencies. 
I will now refer to my own electorate of Grey in which I suppose two-thirds of the Aboriginals of South Australia reside. In the town I come from, Port Augusta, there Is probably a larger concentration of Aboriginals than in any other white community. 
The Aboriginal population varies between 450 and 550. During the last few years, the Dunstan Labor Government made a lot of the improvements, which have been added to. We have seen tremendous improvement in the conditions of the reserve situated just outside of Port Augusta. Those people who saw that reserve 6 or 7 years ago saw a complete shanty town and people living in dwellings made out of flattened kerosene tins, hesian and so on. At least some progress has been made but we are still a long way from achieving the best possible result. One of the conditions is that after Aboriginals have been on the reserve for a certain period and the Reserve Council feels that they are ready to come into the. white society and can look after a home, they move into the town as houses become available. But. unfortunately housing presents a bit of a problem because the Housing Trust does not seem to be able to provide many houses for Aboriginals. So the people who are concerned with welfare matters at the reserve are faced continually with the problem of finding sufficient housing for Aboriginals. 
I have checked and I have found that the Commonwealth has financed the construction of 5 houses in Port Augusta. If we go through the figures which are included in the Minister's second reading speech we find that out of 22 houses for Aboriginals which the Commonwealth financed in South Australia last year none was provided in Port Augusta. Port Augusta would have as big a housing problem as any other city in the State, but no Commonwealth houses were provided for Aboriginals in Port Augusta last year. 
There are many other matters about which one could speak. Perhaps I should move on to the education of Aboriginal children. I think the Minister would agree that often he has received a lot of pleasure when he has seen one of his projects succeed and that Aboriginals have been able to raise their standards of living a little higher. When I come up against someone who is Jim Crow minded and has antiAboriginal feelings my reply is: T suggest that you go up and have a look at the children coming out of the high school. If you had watched the children coming out of the high school a few years ago you would not have seen any Aboriginal children, but the last time I checked I think there were 52 Aboriginal children attending the high school.' Those Aboriginal children mix with white children. They are dressed in school uniforms and I think that they are a credit to their parents. 
But we strike another problem once these Aboriginal children reach a certain standard of education. Perhaps they reach the intermediate standard. Once they leave high school there is a gap before they can obtain employment because there is not a great deal of employment in Port Augusta for unskilled adolescents of between 15 and 20 years of age. This creates a grave problem. If we cannot provide these young people with employment and if they have nothing to do, grave social problems arise. With the appointment of two ' vocational guidance officers who will be stationed in Port Augusta to look after that particular area of South Australia, we hope that something will be done to solve this unemployment problem. Unless we can provide employment for these youngsters, we will not properly solve the other problems that face them. We are concerned about 4 matters - housing, health, education and employment. Unless we can do something in ' all 4 areas, we will not fully solve the problems which are facing Aborignals. 
I return to the question of housing. I refer to a telegram which I received today from the Secretary of the Davenport Reserve Aboriginal Council. This Council administers the routine matters on the Aboriginal reserve. As I have mentioned, there are 5 Commonwealth financed houses in Port Augusta. Apparently they cost between $10,000 and $15,000 each to build. The average rental for a person in normal employment is between $11 and $13 a week. Usually work is available for the Aboriginals in the Commonwealth Railways and in other industries in the town, but usually it is work for which lower rates of wages are paid. Quite a number of Aboriginals work in foundries, in fettling gangs and so forth, but usually these are lowly paid jobs. So the amount of rent which an Aboriginal is required to pay for his house usually is beyond his means. I understand that adjustments are made in cases where Aboriginals are in bad circumstances. 
As I said, the Secretary of the Davenport Reserve Aboriginal Council sent me a telegram today. Perhaps I should read it, because it indicates the way in which Aboriginals on the reserve are thinking. The telegram is addressed to me at Parliament House, and it reads: 
Council instructs me to respectively request you to lay before Parliament the following with reference to the housing of Aboriginal families. That  a  home ownership scheme be devised to allow Aboriginal people to purchase homes on  a  low deposit moderate repayment and low interest basis in areas of full employment. Council considers this will fulfill a long felt want develop a pride of ownership and in so doing reduce the heavy overhead administration repair and maintenance costs and allow the initial vote to be self recouping to sustain continuing home purchase programme. Addition request that urgent consideration be given to the design of suitable transitional housing for average 100 monthly unemployed Aboriginals at Port Augusta. 
Honourable members can see from that telegram that we have an unemployment problem. As I say, there are 4 matters to be considered - health, education, housing and employment. I certainly hope that the amendment is carried because I think that unless we allocate the necessary money we will not be able to solve the problems. We are doing it only bit by bit. Possibly next year an additional Sim will be provided to help towards the advancement of Aboriginals. But we are not yet overcoming the problem. 
In speaking to this Bill I would first like to refer to the Second Schedule which gives a list of the amounts to be granted for the investigation and the measurement of underground water resources, and to direct my remarks to a portion of South Australia which is isolated from the other water systems of that State. I refer to the system on the west coast of South Australia. The main water supply on the west coast which is isolated from the Why al laMurray water scheme relies on 2 main sources. One is the River Tod which is situated just to the north of Port Lincoln, and the other is made up of the various underground water storages which are situated throughout this area. The water from those 2 sources is reticulated considerable distances as far west as Ceduna which is about 280 miles along the coast. However, other areas are not serviced by the water pipeline. 
I refer now to the scheme which links Lock with Kimba. The work is proceeding very slowly and not to the satisfaction of the people in this area. The main which will supply Kimba will receive water from both the Tod River scheme and underground water stocks which are close by in the Polda Basin. Over some years the people of the Kimba area have been crying out for a water supply because in the hot summer months it is necessary to cart water by rail. This area is normally very productive. However, it is an area which is now experiencing the problems that Tri confronting rural industries. One of the problems of this area is a lack of water which would allow farmers to diversify and to carry more stock and so on. Therefore, it is essential that this project be completed. The South Australian Government has a programme to complete this pipeline but unfortunately, with the limited resources available,' it will not be finished for another 5 years. The South Australian Government has approached the Commonwealth Government for assistance from the Australian Water Resources Council. On 2 occasions I have asked the Minister for National Development a question on this matter. He has informed me only in the last couple of weeks that it is still being discussed and that it is not known when a decision will be made. As I have said, this is a rural area which is suffering the troubles of the rest of the rural industries. The main chance that it has is to obtain a supply of water which will allow diversification. If this area is to be kept viable the construction of a pipeline, with allowance for branch mains and so forth, will have to be completed. 
We certainly hope that the Federal Government will give favourable consideration to the submissions that have been made not only by the present government of South Australia but also by the previous Hall Government for assistance so that this scheme can be completed. As I have said, if this area is to remain productive and if the farmers are to have a chance to survive it is essential that this project be completed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Grey respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pension may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the provision store and the Seaview Hostel at Port Augusta are operated by Commonwealth Railways as separate accounting entities. 
If so, what profit or loss resulted from the operation of each of these establishments over the last S years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
When is it expected that the next actuarial investigation of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund will be carried out. 
How long is it expected to take for (a) the results of this investigation to be made available and (b) any necessary adjustments to be made to Commonwealth Superannuation Fund pensions. 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration, upon notice: 
Has he information which shows how many people from the United Kingdom have: 
migrated to Whyalla and 
left Whyalla to 
settle in other parts of Australia and  (if) return to the United Kingdom during each of the past 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: (il) What dry docking facilities exist on the Australian coast for ships in excess of 1,000 tons. 
Are these facilities available in Australia for ships in excess of 60,000 tons such as the Amanda Miller'. 
Is it intended that ships well in excess ot 60,000 tons will be built in Australia. 
If so, what plans exist for the provision of dry docking facilities for them. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Grey respectfully sheweth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all Stales, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with ACTU policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pension may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen an article in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 16th February which refers to the number of fatal accidents on the Eyre Highway in western South Australia? Has he noted that of the 8 unfortunate people killed over a period 5 were from New South Wales, 2 were from Victoria and 1 was from Western Australia? Does this not indicate the wide use being made of this highway by interstate travellers and thereby strengthen the case for a special federal grant to expedite the complete sealing of the Eyre Highway from Ceduna to the Western Australian border? 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has there been any alteration to the plan to erect a health hostel for Aboriginal women at Port Augusta in September 1970. 
Are there any plans to erect a hostel for male Aborigines in the northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia to assist in providing suitable single accommodation where employment opportunities are available. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What (a) amount was spent and, (b) projects were assisted in, (i) South Australia and, (ii) the electorate of Grey, from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust account during the last financial year. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The undersigned electors of the Division of Grey humbly pray that the Government will take immediate measures to provide a television system to service the District Council areas of Murat Bay, Streaky Bay, Le Hunle and Elliston. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to raise a question that I have raised in this House on a number of occasions; that is, the sealing of the Eyre Highway in the western part of South Australia. When this question has been raised we have always received the same reply from the Minister for Shipping and Transport, namely, that the State of South Australia was given a grant of $13. 6m for rural arterial roads and that the South Australian Government should use portion of that money to finance the project. In my electorate of Grey, which takes in well over half of South Australia, there are 3 main highways - the Stuart Highway to Alice Springs, the Flinders Highway from Port Lincoln to Ceduna along the coast, and the Eyre Highway from Port Augusta to the Western Australian border and beyond. From Ceduna to the border the Eyre Highway is an unsealed road and is very dangerous. There is bulldust, which has been the cause of very many accidents. 
The Federal Government has always maintained that the Eyre Highway is a State responsibility, despite the fact that the Ceduna to the border section  is  part of Highway No. 1 and statements have been made by Ministers emphasising the importance of the Highway and expressing the hope that it would be completely sealed to complete a strip of bitumen around the coast from North Queensland to the coast of Western Australia. But the Government refuses to recognise that this is the only land link by road in the southern' half of the continent.  It  has refused to recognise the defence potential of this road. All it has done is place the full responsibility on South Australia's limited resources. 
Despite many appeals from South Australian governments, both Liberal and Labor, for a special grant for this project, the Federal Government refuses to recognise the urgent need for this grant. The number of people killed and injured is surely sufficient justification for the completion of this project. As I pointed out in a question yesterday, the number of people from outside South Australia  points  to the great interstate use of this road. The South Australian Government has 3 major road projects for the western portion of the State, and it would certainly be unfair if 2 of these were stopped to allow the third to proceed. The South Australian Highways 
Department is already committed to sealing the bad stretch of 45 miles from Ceduna to Penong. 
It is interesting to note that 5 previous submissions to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  calling for Commonwealth assistance for the sealing of the Eyre Highway have been made since 1967. The most recent was a submission by the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  on 6th July 1970. Following a delay of about  8  weeks, a reply dated 29th July 1970 came - not from the Prime Minister, but from his personal secretary. The letter said: 
The Prime Minister will be writing to the Premier on this matter as soon as possible. 
After this nothing more was heard from Canberra. On 22nd December 1970  Mr Dunstan  sent a further letter asking for something more positive than a 6 months silence.  Mr Gorton  replied on 12th January 1971, once more disclaiming Commonwealth responsibility. 
Perhaps it is considered that South Australia is being selfish in this. Let me quote from the editorial in today's Adelaide Advertiser': 

 Mr Nixon has overlooked that  help given Western Australia in providing 'beef roads has made it easier for that State to finance other highway projects. As a recent report shows, 2,000 miles of road have been sealed under that plan at a cost to the Commonwealth of $75m. With a much smaller sum, South Australia could end a national reproach. 
And perhaps we can quote the Western Australian Premier,  Sir David  Brand, in an item in the Adelaide 'News': 
The Western Australian Government believes the Federal Government should help the South Australian Government seal the Eyre Highway. 
I do not blame the South Australian Government', said the WA Premier,  Sir David  Brand. 
Sealing the road will not benefit them as much as us.' 
The State Premier heads a big list of WA politicians, residents, newspaper opinion-letter-writers, and others who believe the sealing is mainly a Federal Government responsibility, and is also a national disgrace. 
The expressed view of Western Australian Government spokesmen is that the $9m needed for the sealing is just a drop in the ocean of Federal Government funds, and that at least it could contribute S6m with the South Australian Government the remaining $3m. 
As a means of overcoming the impasse that exists on this matter, I understand that the South Australian Government has sent a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Gorton), agreeing to make S3m available conditional on the Commonwealth finding a further $6m. I would certainly hope that the Minister recognises the offer made by the South Australian Government, and comes to the party by providing the other $6m needed to complete the project, and by doing so, allow the full economic use of this highway to all States of Australia, and help to cut down on the growing tragic loss of life. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did an interdepartmental committee of his Department recently carry out a survey of dry docking facilities around the Australian coast. 
If so, did the committee make recommendations concerning the availability of these facilities. 
Was Whyalla considered to be a desirable site for the installation of these facilities in the future. 
asked the Minister for Educa  tion and Science, upon notice: 
Does . the Commonwealth Government provide any form of subsidy for the employment of governesses for the purpose of teaching children resident . in remote areas of Australia where normal schooling facilities are not available. 
If so, what form does the subsidy take. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Development. It refers to the flood waters flowing from the western rivers of New South Wales to the Darling River and later the Murray River. Can the Minister state to what extent these flood waters can be impounded by the Menindee Lakes and the Lake Victoria storage schemes? Is it a fact that flood waters not impounded by these schemes will flow practically unimpeded to the sea? Does this not indicate the need for a major water storage dam below the junction of the Murray and Darling Rivers and justify the case of the South Australian Government for agreement by the Commonwealth together with the States of New South Wales and Victoria to proceed with the construction of the Chowilla Dam at  a  later date? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do Commonwealth Public Service employees suffer any loss of wages or salary when called up for jury service. 
If so, will hetake steps to ensure that any losses are reimbursed. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
ls it the intention of his Department to set up rehabilitation clinic teams in country areas of South Australia. 
If so, when will the clinics be established and in what areas will the teams be stationed. 
asked  the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What departments other than his Department are represented on the interdepartmental committee for which his Department carried out a survey of commercial dry docking facilities (Hansard, 10th March 1971. page 821). 
When was the committee established. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Can the right honourable gentleman give any information as  to  the nature of the United States installations in the vicinity of Woomera in South Australia? Are members of the Parliament permitted to visit these installations? 
asked the Minister for Prim ary Industry, upon notice: 
Does his Department assist the Stales by providing finance for research into the Australian fishing industry. 
Jf so, what form does the assistance take in regard to the South Australian fishing industry. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of his Department to station  a  naval patrol vessel at Port Lincoln or other ports in South Australia to guard against violations of Australian territorial waters by foreign fishing vessels. 
This House has on innumerable occasions listened to Dorothy Dix type questions directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and other Ministers concerning disputes that have arisen in various parts of Australia. Invariably, we get a reply which condemns the employees involved in the dispute, with the advice that the cause of the dispute should be taken to the arbitration tribunals, and that the employees must agree with the decision given by the tribunal. This, the acceptance by employees of the decision, is the cornerstone of the whole arbitration system, we are told. This may look all right on paper to many people, but I am afraid that it does not work out sometimes in practice. There is one big flaw in the system in that there is a right of appeal against decisions given by the various Commissioners. And it is this very function of the arbitration system that is the cause of a major industrial dispute within my electorate. I refer to the dispute involving the Ship Painters and Dockers Union and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Whyalla ship yards. 
Some time ago, the Ship Painters and Dockers Union was granted certain improvements in award conditions by the Commissioner covering that industry, but the BHP decided to lodge an appeal, and some of the improved conditions were knocked off as a result of the appeal to the Bench. This, naturally, was the cause of a great deal of discontent amongst members of this particular union employed at Whyalla. 
There were stoppages of protest on the particular issue, which finally culminated in a total stoppage by members of this Union approximately a fortnight ago and, from the latest information, this stoppage is still going on. At this point of time other employees have been stood down and it appears that the BHP company is to use the stand-down provisions in the awards to stand down many more of its employees engaged in its Whyalla shipyards, resulting in a possible complete shutdown of the yard. Whilst I personally regret the number of men stood down, with the resultant loss of income for their wives and families, I feel that the whole dispute is a result of the fact that in this case, as in other cases involving BHP at Whyalla, it is the company itself that does not believe in accepting umpire's decisions, as employees are asked to do. From my observations, it is the typical high-handed attitude, by the use of the appeals provisions, of this company that has been the cause of this dispute. 
My mind goes back to  2  other occasions when the appeals provisions were used to deny to employees the improved conditions granted by a commissioner of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The first was in the construction of the oil drilling rig, the 'Ocean Digger' at the Whyalla shipyard. The employees engaged on this project were granted extra rates of pay to compensate for the disabilities connected with this particular job. The BHP company appealed against the decision, with the result that the payments agreed to by the commissioner were taken from the employees. The second occasion that comes to mind was in connection with the operations of the BHP's pellet plant at Whyalla. Here again, a dispute arose over disabilities suffered by certain employees at this plant. The matter went before a commissioner, who . recognised the disabilities that existed, and as a result extra payments were granted to employees in certain sections of this plant However, BHP again used the appeals provisions, with the result that its appeal was upheld, again denying to employees disability payments granted by the commissioner handling the case. It is also a fact that in that dispute the employees lost not only what had been granted by the commissioner but also disability payments that were made to them prior to the matter going before the commissioner. 

 Mr Speaker, it is cases such as I have mentioned that have completely sapped the confidence of the BHP employees of Whyalla in the arbitration system as it is set up at present. They are the cause of the continual discontent amongst employees that has gone on for some time, and I think a large part of the blame can be placed on BHP for its attitude to its employees generally. The work force at Whyalla is made up mainly of post-war immigrants to this country, mainly from various parts of the United Kingdom but also from many other countries. They have never worked under a compulsory arbitration system such as we have operating, and many are resentful of the manner in which it operates. With the cases I have mentioned, is it any wonder that the BHP wage employee sees himself up against not only the employer, whenever a dispute may arise, but also the arbitration system? 
I have been a firm believer that if our system is to work successfully the greatest emphasis must be placed on conciliation rather than on arbitration, and I think that this point was pressed home most strongly by my colleague, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in the address he made a few weeks ago on productivity. However, I am also firmly of the opinion that BHP believes the opposite - that arbitration on disputes is of more importance than conciliation. The very actions of BHP fully support this view. It adopts what is to me a very strange attitude, in that it does not recognise the Whyalla Combined Unions Council - an organisation which covers most of the unions whose members work at the Whyalla shipyard. 
As a former secretary of a combined unions organisation, I have found that in dealing with industrial enterprises of some size, which have had some concern for the state of their industrial relations, they have been willing to discuss matters over the table with combined union organisations, and in many cases to reach decisions which, because they have been mutually agreed to over the table, are respected by both employer and employee. Surely the same approach can be made by BHP in its attitude to its employees and their organisations. The BHP company receives great assistance from governments in general; the shipyard operates with a Federal Government subsidy on ships built there; the housing of its employees in Whyalla is provided by the South Australian Housing 
Trust; the royalties it pays on its iron ore are minimal; its water is carried from the River Murray in a duplicated pipeline built at government expense; and many other government services are provided. Whilst it is our largest single private enterprise, incidentally our most profitable enterprise and apparently is efficient generally in its operations, I feel that until such time as it is prepared to change its attitudes to its employees on industrial matters, industrial relations at Whyalla will continue at a low ebb. 
Therefore, in conclusion, I urge the Government to use its influence with this company in order to have it alter its attitude, which creates so much discontent, and, by doing so help to create the peaceful industrial relations it so often expresses as its desire. The BHP employees of Whyalla are normal men and would respond to a bit of decent treatment instead of the high handed treatment they now receive. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 2.15 a.m. (Friday) 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned that tax concessions for people residing in Zone B have not been increased for 11 years. 
Their concern is aggravated by the fact that many towns of high living costswhich are situated geographically in isolated areas are either classified as Zone B or receive no zone classification. 
They are also gravely concerned that taxpayers living in these isolated areas receive no tax deductions for travel and accommodation expenses when they or their dependants are forced to travel to cities to receive specialist medical treatment. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly praythat the honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will take immediate steps to amend the above tax anomalies by: 
An early investigation of the location of Zone A and Zone B areas so that towns of equal isolation and' cost factor will receive the same zone concession. 
An early investigationof the amount of concession entitlement for Zone B with a view to an increase  in that amount. 
The Income Tax Assessment Act be amended so that travel and accommodation expenses be allowable deductions when a taxpayer or his dependants' are forced to travel from isolated areas to cities for specialist medical treatment. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping  and  Transport, upon notice: 
It is a fact that Commonwealth Railways by-laws deprive those employees, who receive compensation for periods in excess of 3 months, of pro rata recreation leave for the period of absence on compensation. 
If so, will he take steps to remove this provision from the by-laws. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can be say whether unreasonable use is made of the stand down clauses in the Metal Trades Award by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at its Whyalla establishments whenever a dispute arises involving only a small section of its employees; if so, will he have the matter investigated. 
Do the stand down provisions allow employees not involved in a dispute to be stood down, despite the fact that sufficient work is available to enable them to carry out their normal duties. 
We on this side of the House are very pleased that at last this Bill has been brought before the Parliament for debate. I do not think it. could be said that this Bill has been rushed through - apart from in the last couple of days when we have had the regrettable attitude of the Government in trying to push everything through in the last hours of this session. However, my memory goes back to 1963-64 when I received from my colleague, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  correspondence stating that the then Government, with  Mr Holt  as the Treasurer, intended to introduce a Bill to completely overhaul the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. At that time I was the Secretary of the Port Augusta Combined Unions Council, which included practically all the unions covering Commonwealth Railways wage employees. As such, I was particularly interested in this proposal of the Government. But up to the present time all that has haappened has been the making of variations in the weekly payments for an employee on compensation, plus extra payments for his wife and children if married. The lump sum payment in the event of the death of an employee was increased at the same time. 
However, the many anomalies that have existed in the old Act have gone on completely unaltered and many, I should imagine, remain unaltered under this Bill. I suggest that if we were to look at the new South Australian Act we would see there provisions which could improve this Bill. Probably one of the biggest anomalies causing great hardship and heartache is the long delay that takes place before a compensation case can be settled. I could quote many cases of completely unnecessary delays that have taken place before settlement has been reached. One case with which I have been closely associated concerns an employee injured in 1966. The latest information that I have is that the matter is still not settled. This employee has broken himself financially, waiting for some finalisation. He has been placed in the very embarrassing position of having summonses served on him for payments for hospitalisation and other medical services. I understand that finally he paid all these expenses out of his own pocket and can only hope that he will be able to recoup them when his case is finalised. 
Another case that was referred to me recently concerned an employee who burnt one of his eyes in the course of his employment. Whilst his eyesight itself was apparently not permanently damaged, his tear ducts were, with the result that his eye continually watered, thus permanently reducing his sight by 15 per cent. His union wrote to his employer, the Commonwealth Railways, on 6th May last year, enclosing a specialist's report. It was 6 months before this employee went before a Commonwealth medical referee, and another 4 months before he received word that liability was admitted. Both the cases I have mentioned were Commonwealth Railways employees. Whilst the Commonwealth Railways have officers specifically to deal with compensation, the blame for the delays did not lie with them. The blame lay with the Commissioner for Commonwealth Employees Compensation here in Canberra. In mentioning these 2 cases, I certainly hope that the improved machinery contained in this Bill will completely do away with such delays. 
We fully recognise the great number of improvements in the Bill, but we feel that there are still ways and means by which it can further be improved. It is to be hoped that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will give full consideration to any amendments or suggestions that come from this side of the House, or later from the ACTU or the Public Service organisations. We appreciate the fact that the Bill introduced last year was withdrawn, and another look was taken at what was required on this matter. Many of the suggestions from this side of the House have been included in the present Bill. We appreciate the realistic approach by the Minister and hope that it heralds a new deal for Commonwealth employees unfortunate enough to be injured in their employment. 
There is one matter that perhaps has been overlooked in the Bill, and that is the close association between compensation and the prevention of accidents. In my many years in industry, I came across very few employees who really wanted to go off on compensation. Nobody wants to see his income drop by 30 per cent or 40 per cent, apart from the physical pain, disfigurement, or any of the long suffering complaints that can result from an accident. As one who has been associated closely with safety first committees set up to do away with unsafe practices and potential hazards and to promote education to make employees in industry more aware of potential dangers, I am fully aware that safety first discipline is essential if industrial accidents are to be kept down. It is one aspect of industrial relations in which all are involved - the individual, the union, and the employer - and one that can be approached in harmony to ensure complete job safety. 
I want to refer to another factor which is related to this Bill, namely, the rehabilitation of injured employees. Whilst I do not want to dwell on rehabilitation, I suggest that the Minister should examine the Report on the Inquiry into the Feasibility of Establishing a System for the Rehabilitation of Injured Workers in New South Wales. That report may be of assistance in determining ways in which our rehabilitation processes can be improved. Whilst matters such as recompense for loss of income and rehabilitation of the injured are of the utmost importance following an accident, the question of prevention is of prime and initial importance, and I would like to feel that this question received more attention in the Bill. How can we do this? First of all we can ensure that every opportunity is taken, where groups of employees gather in industrial and other undertakings, to initiate comprehensive safety first programmes using films, lectures, and any other means that are available. We can make it a condition of promotion for supervisory staff that they have taken a course in safety first procedures. In larger establishments, we should have fully qualified full time safety first officers, with the necessary authority to see that safety first procedures are carried out, and that all this is carried out with the full cooperation of the unions involved. I am sure that if this can be done we can go a long way towards reducing the number of accidents in Commonwealth establishments covered by this Bill. 
Another aspect of prevention that I feel has been neglected, and one that has a great bearing in establishments that are noise prone, is the need for the innovation of programmes of noise prevention to conserve the hearing of employees. As one who has suffered from the effects of noise, I cannot stress this point too strongly. It is only in the last few years that it has received any attention at all. There would not be an employee, working for any length of time in a shop subject to excessive noise, whose hearing would not be effected in some form. Here again I suggest that all establishments in which there is a Commonwealth responsibility should be closely examined by qualified acoustics engineers of the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories to establish what the noise levels are. The engineers must have the authority to ensure that procedures are adopted to bring noise levels down to medically acceptable limits. Figures available clearly show that the number of people suffering from the effects of noise is larger than is generally realised. 
Whilst some may feel that the measures I suggest would be expensive, prevention is better than cure. It is also a fact that the carrying out of safety schemes, the appointment of safety officers, and the initiation of hearing conservation schemes will go a long way towards cutting down on the amounts paid in compensation, and overall will fully justify the outlay needed. It is this aspect of prevention that I feel has been overlooked in the Bill, and I therefore suggest to the Minister that he consider this aspect very closely. I know that the Bill provides for many improvements, one of which is the provision dealing with sick leave. My colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  referred to sick leave. He said that if a person was not entitled to any sick leave he could not avail himself of sick leave. What happened in the past was that an employee sacrificed his accumulated sick leave in order to get his full pay entitlement when he went off on compensation. This was very unjust because it meant that if the employee ever needed to take sick leave he did not have any entitlement to sick leave. 
I suggest that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh should be examined closely by the Government and the committee that has been set up. We on this side recognise the very great improvements contained in this Bill. We hope that, as a result of the committee examining these matters and the amend ments that have been proposed, this legislation will be further improved. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Office of Aboriginal Affairs give financial assistance to organisations involved in Aboriginal activities to enable Aboriginal officers or delegates to attend meetings of these organisations. 
If so, what organisations have been assisted over the last 2 years, what amounts have been allocated and under what conditions is this financial assistance made available. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On bow many occasions during the last 5 years has the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd appealed against decisions given in industrial proceedings before Commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in matters affecting its employees at Whyalla, South Australia. 
On how many occasions has the company been successful in these appeals. 
What was the nature of the industrial decisions mat were subject to these appeals. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
What conditions apply to eligibility for payment of social , service unemployment benefits to employees stood down as a result, of an. industrial dispute where members of the same, union are involved in a, dispute (a) in the same' vicinity and (b) In areas remote from the dispute that has been the cause of the stand down. , 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he give any information relating to the negotiations that have taken place between himself and the South Australian Minister for Transport, relating to the link-up of the Adelaide metropolitan area to the east-west standard gauge railway at Port Pirie or thereabouts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
In view of the reduced activity at the Woomera Rocket Range in South Australia, will the Minister consider re-examining the vast areas now classed as prohibited areas to determine whether sections of the areas can be opened for mineral exploration and other activities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Are Commonwealth public servants debarred from jury service in any State under existing State laws. 
If so, in what Slates do these restrictions apply. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the amount of the lump sum payments paid to Commonwealth Railways employeesas compensation : for deafness due to noise. 
What is the total cost of hearing aids, issued to Commonwealth Railways employees suffering from noise-caused deafness. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Water Resources Council completed its examination of the request by the South Australian Government for financial assistance to expedite the completion of the LockKimba Water Pipeline on Eyre Peninsula? 
If so, when can it be anticipated that he will announce the Government's decision on this matter? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he given any further consideration to introducing amendments to the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act to provide pro rata furlough after 10 years' service instead of the existing provisions of the Act which provide furlough after 15 years' service. 
J present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned that tax concessions for people residing in Zone B have not been increased for 1 1 years. 
Their concern is aggravated by the fact that many towns of high living costs which are situated geographically in isolated areas are either classified as Zone B or receive no Zone classification. 
They are also gravely concerned that taxpayers living in these isolated areas receive no tax deductions for travel and accommodation expenses when they or their dependants are forced to travel to cities to receive specialist medical treatment. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that, the honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will take immediate steps to amend the above tax anomalies by: 
An early investigation of the location of Zone A and Zone B areas so that towns of equal isolation and cost factor will receive the same Zone concession. 
An early investigation of the amount of concession entitlement for Zone B with a view to an increase in that amount. 
The Income Tax Assessment Act be amended so that travel and accommodation expenses be allowable deductions when a taxpayer or his dependants are forced to travel from isolated areas to cities for specialist medical treatment. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary 
Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allow able for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of certain electors of the Division of Grey respectfully showeth: 
That public reports that oil companies may again raise the price of petrol should be viewed with grave concern for such a rise would undoubtedly further inflate retail prices unless steps are taken to offset that rise. 
That the 5 cents rise in the price of petrol emanating from the last 2 Budgets has inflated the cost structure of every strata of the community. 
Your petitioners therefore pray that (a) if the oil companies increase the price of petrol the House press for a reduction by an equivalent amount through Government taxation measures and (b) the House take steps to have rescinded the 5 cents risein the price of petrol emanating from the last 2 Budgets. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to support the Opposition's condemnation of and the amendment it has moved to the provisions of the 1971-72 Budget brought before the House last week. We read in the newspapers the early reports attributed to the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  that the Budget would be tough. He certainly was not joking, as the provisions of the Budget clearly point out. Whilst pensioners would welcome the SI. 25 a week rise for the standard rate pensioner, and the increase in the married rate and the increase in the repatriation pensions, the amounts granted still leave a great gap between what the pensioner receives and what are the real needs of these people. We heard some paper talk prior to the presentation of the Budget that the Government was examining proposals to have pensions adjusted at regular intervals to compensate for movements in the cost of living. However, this received no mention in the Budget. 
It leaves the social services and repatriation pensioner in the position where any adjustment to his income is left solely to the whim of the Government in power, with the manipulation according to whether there is a possible election forthcoming. Surely the time has come when we must get away from the present system. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is well known: it advocates the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. It is about time that a system such as this was introduced and the sooner the belter. It is also noted that there has been some talk about the Government examining such a scheme but apparently it has rejected this idea. 
Returning to the increases included in the Budget, I refer to the Si increase granted to wives of pensioners when the wife is under 60 years of age and has an incapacitated husband or has children under her care. Surely the Government realises the complete inadequacy of this amount, and the economic hardship it places on married couples who are in this position. All honourable members will be aware of cases where a husband has reached 65 years of age, is in reasonable health but had to retire and because his wife is under the age of 60 years they are therefore entitled to nothing for her. I have personally been approached on a number of occasions by married couples placed in this invidious position, anc! I have had to tell them of their social service entitlements. It is certainly a shock to many of these couples to learn that, to maintain anything like a decent standard of living, the wife has to look around for a job at 57 or 58 years of age. This to me is a shocking thing when it is realised that a woman who has raised a family cared for a home for many years and is getting on in years, suddenly finds herself in a position of having to look around for some work to augment the family income. The only other alternative is for the husband to continue working after 65 years of age, but here again problems arise as in many industries retirement at 65 years of age is compulsory, and opportunities for employment for people over 65 years of age are very limited. Surely the time has arrived for the married rate pension to be paid to the wife of an age or invalid pensioner irrespective of the age of the wife. This was part of the policy enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at the Federal election of 1969. 
We heard no mention of the easing of the means test, a system that is working against those who have made great sacrifices during their working life to provide for their old age by taking out insurance, joining superannuation schemes and so on, only to find themselves disadvantaged when their old age arrives. Surely, the time is ripe for a further easing of the means test to enable those who sacrificed during their working life to get full benefit. Here again, this should be compared with Labor's policy to abolish the mear&gt;  '..  completely over the life of 2 Parliaments. 
One other matter not mentioned in the Budget brought down by the Treasurer is the matter of assistance to hospitals in the maintenance of pensioner payments, now standing at $5 a day. Throughout my electorate are 4 State Government run hospitals and 9 or 10 small community hospitals run by local district organisations. I have been approached by the Eyre Peninsula branch of the South Australian Hospitals Association which is seeking my assistance in having the amount allowed for treatment of pensioner patients increased from the present $5 a day to the actual cost or alternatively to $10 a day. From the figures given to me, the actual cost in most cases is in excess of $16 a day and costs are increasing. I made approaches to the appropriate Minister, who stated that the matter would receive consideration, but mention of this in the Budget was conspicuous by its absence. Surely these small hospitals were entitled to receive better treatment from the Budget than they received. They are all small hospitals, run by members of the community and relying to a great extent on the efforts of the community in which they are situated. They are all feeling the economic pinch and are finding the ever increasing cost of keeping these patients, with the limited resources the small hospitals have at their disposal, an increasing economic burden. Surely, the Government can accept a greater responsibility in this particular problem. 
I refer to the increase in excise on motor spirits and other fuels. As the representative of one of the larger electorates, I can only anticipate the effect these rises in the cost of fuel will have on prices. These extra charges will penetrate to every section of the community and particularly to those living in the rural and outback areas of the electorate who are already under great economic pressures. This increase follows increases in the price of motor spirit and other fuels last year and can only result in increases in prices generally, as the whole of this extra cost will be passed on to the consumer. The increase in prices will also show in the consumer index with the result that it will in itself be inflationary. 
The increase in the cost of pharmaceutical benefits by 100 per cent will certainly not win the Government any friends. The steepness of this increase certainly strikes at the whole community, and in particular the lower paid family man. The Government has certainly granted increases in child endowment to families with more than 2 children but this increase can be completely absorbed by increased pharmaceutical benefit charges when sickness strikes, so it is another case of the Government giving with one hand and taking with the other. To those families with fewer than 2 children it is not just another increased charge but a 100 per cent increase in a charge, an increase that the Government is asking the lower paid family man to bear. 
I refer to the treatment that education received in the Budget. The plight of the States' primary and secondary education systems is widely known. They are under a great economic pressure to carry out the functions allocated to them. Certainly there have been increases in the number of Commonwealth scholarships, but figures have shown that the chances of receiving one of these scholarships are much greater if one attends one of the more affluent private schools. It is obvious that the grass roots area of our State education system is the area that is most neglected in the considerations given to education, that is, in the primary and secondary level. It is in these areas that we find the over-largs classes, the shortages of trained teachers and the inadequate buildings. On a recent tour of my electorate I took the opportunity of calling into every school that it was possible to visit. These schools varied from high schools, area schools and special Aboriginal schools to rural primary schools, and apart from other deficiencies the need for the replacement of old school buildings was most pressing. Whilst the State Labor Government in South Australia is doing the utmost to carry out a programme of providing decent modern school buildings its efforts are restricted by lack of adequate finance, and the only place from which this finance can come is the Federal Government. 
Whilst the Government found it convenient to promise that something would be done on the national survey on educational needs prior to the last election, it appears that it has allowed this to fall into the background. The future needs in education for Australia's children are surely of sufficient priority to make the Government realise its obligations in this field so that the full potential of this nation can be realised. As clearly pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the increase in taxation concessions for educational expenses from $300 to $400 will certainly give some relief - to the more privileged sections of the community. It was also interesting to note the figures for the grants given to independent schools. Some of Australia's top prestige schools received sums amounting to many thousands of dollars. By comparison, I also happened to notice the sums allocated to 2 schools within my electorate, both special schools for Aboriginals. Ernabella Mission school received $1,312.50 and Fregon Mission school received $315. By comparison, St Peter's College in Adelaide received $46,460. 
It is also noted that in the Budget there is an increase in the amount allocated for Aboriginal advancement to $ 14.35m, mainly for special grants for education, health and housing, but when one can see how much really needs to be done in this field one is convinced that not enough is being done. Whilst I fully agree with the principle of the expenditure on study and grants for the secondary education of Aboriginal children, I also feel that insufficient is being done for the education of Aboriginal children at the primary and pre-school level. As I stated, there is nothing wrong with the secondary education grants system in principle but far too many Aboriginal children do not have the opportunity, for various reasons, to avail themselves of these grants. I recently had a conversation with a headmaster at one Aboriginal school in my electorate, and in answer to a question of mine he informed me that because of the circumstances the children would be educated only to the 4th grade primary standard, so it is obvious that very few, if any, of these children will be able to avail themselves of the assistance being given at the secondary level. 
I am strongly of the opinion that we are tackling the special problems affecting the Aboriginal people in only a half hearted manner. We are going from Budget to Budget, allocating percentage increases each year. There is a need for a full inves tigation into what is required to allow the Aboriginal people to take advantage of what society has to offer them and for them to be able to live in the best of conditions in the manner that they themselves desire. Those who hold any consideration for Aboriginal people must be deeply concerned about reports on child mortality among these people in the centra] part of Australia, where the rate is many times the rate for white children. It was estimated by one person I had met, who works amongst these people, that of 50 children bom 11 will die in childhood. Surely this is a blot on our society and emphasises that a much greater effort must be put into solving these problems. 
In the Alice Springs area the Aboriginal child mortality rate is apparently particularly high. This has an effect on my electorate because people in the north west of South Australia, where there is a considerable Aboriginal population, rely on the Alice Springs Hospital for attention. An inquiry is to be held into the mortality rate of Aboriginal children in the Alice Springs area. If one were interested, one could have a look at the transcript of the evidence given before the Public Works Committee on the Alice Springs Hospital project. 
Here again, great efforts are being made by the Government of South Australia, but with limited resources, it cannot do all that it would like to do. State Government health officers are working through the areas where the Aboriginal population is large but their duties keep them fully taxed and it is impossible for them to do all that needs to be done. There is a great need for trained people to be available solely for the purpose of health education. Of course, coupled with this is the need for suitable housing for the Aboriginal people, and where possible, employment opportunities. Whilst I and other members of this House are aware of the problems they are not of such magnitude that they cannot be solved by a sincere application to them and by the Federal Government's accepting a greater financial responsibility. After all, the people of Australia gave the Commonwealth the necessary powers to accept such responsibility. 
Both the Treasurer and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  have made comments concerning the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and reference has been made to a review of the arbitration system. As pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition, the vast majority of the Australian work force is working under awards or agreements, and wherever employees have gone outside the system in an effort to improve their wages and conditions they have been told to come back to the Commission or industrial tribunal. But when the decisions of the tribunals do not agree with Government policy we see the influence of the Government used in an effort to alter the policy of the Commission. Let us have a look at what has happened since the Menzies Government was elected to power in 1949 on a policy of putting value back into the 1. The first 3 years saw the worst example of galloping inflation due to Government policies. As a means of overcoming the inflationary problem the then Government supported the abolition of the quarterly cost of living adjustments, and was successful. It threw the main burden of overcoming inflation on the lower and middle income earners at that time. It supported the abolition of the 2-part wage structure of basic wage and margins and which was replaced by the total wage concept, a move strongly opposed by the employee organisations. In the judgment handed down by the bench in that decision the Commission stated: 
The Commission will be able to handle the annual review of the total wage flexibly. An increase could be varied as a flat amount, as now, or as a flat percentage, as in 1965, or in varying percentages, as in 1966, or in other ways. We will not attempt to tie the hands of future benches in this regard. 
Because the Commission, after examining the evidence before it, decided to give flat percentage increases in the last 2 years - that is, 3 per cent in 1969 and 6 per cent in 1970  -  we heard cries of horror from many, including Ministers opposite. Now we find the Treasurer stating in his Budget Speech that the Government is examining ways and means of strengthening the arbitration system, and to quote him, 'bringing more to the forefront the economic consequences of decisions taken within that system'. The large number of employees who have their incomes regulated by the Commission should take great heed of the Treasurer's remarks, as they can envisage steps by the Government to put pressure on the Commission in its judgments and, by doing so, place the full burden of the inflationary pressure on the backs of the low and middle income earner. 
I wish to refer also to remarks made a few weeks ago in my electorate by a Liberal senator. Among other things, he called for a tightening or a strengthening of the penal provisions in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I certainly hope that the Government does not take his advice - 1 am sure that it will not - because I know the result when they were last applied. The application of the penal provisions has caused more industrial disputes than it has ever solved. 
Before I conclude, there are a few more matters I wish to raise. One is the increases in postal charges, telephone rentals and calls, wireless and television licences and so forth. These are services provided by the Postmaster-General's Department. The increased charges also will hit the man in the street pretty heavily. In mentioning the Postmaster-General's Department, I refer to the statement made by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  last year in which he indicated an alteration in the policy of the Department in the matter of rural telephones. He stated that the Department would meet the cost up to a radial distance of IS miles from the appropriate exchange of rural subscribers telephone exchange lines. Many people thought that this was a big step forward and no doubt it was at that time. They thought that there would be a stepping up of telephone connections. However, on the Eyre Peninsula where there is a number of applications for telephone connections, to my way of thinking the position is practically hopeless. As I understand it, the number of connections is only about 30 a year. Some people have had their applications in for a considerable time. Inquiries that I have made indicate that it will be 1974 or 1975 before those people can expect connections to be made. I hope that something can be done within the Postmaster-General's Department to expedite them. 
A matter which has been taken up personally by me and, I know, by a number of other honourable members following representations concerns expenses incurred in obtaining medical attention being classed as a taxation deduction. Of course, this proposal again was rejected. On every occasion when we write to the Treasurer on this matter usually the last paragraph of his reply says that it will be examined prior to the formulation of the Budget, but nothing ever happens. I think that this is a matter which deserves serious consideration. People who live some distance from capital cities and larger towns and who need specialist attention face great expense in receiving that attention. The actual cost of the medical attention is minimal when compared with the cost incurred in travelling to centres where that attention is available. I firmly believe that the Government should give some consideration to allowing these expenses as a taxation deduction. 
Another matter I raised with the Treasurer concerned the possibility of contributions to ambulance services being allowed as a taxation deduction. Once again I received a reply that this would be considered in the formulation of the Budget, but nothing happened about it. Not only does this concern people living in towns, it concerns also people in outback areas who rely much more on the Royal Flying Doctor Service. It is evident that a person contributing to the Flying Doctor Service would pay much more than would a person contributing to an ordinary ambulance organisation. But, again, these payments made to the Flying Doctor organisation are not deductible items for taxation purposes. I feel that this is something that should have been given some consideration. 
Another matter which I know has been raised on many occasions is the possibility of people being allowed to claim as a taxation deduction their fare to and from work. While I am aware that on all occasions this proposal has been rejected, I know of one case in this respect. 1 was approached by a man who was practically paralysed from the waist down. He was able to get a job as a gatekeeper at a workshop and, as he sat down to work, the problem of walking did not arise. However, he had to get a taxi every day to and from work. No public transport was available and it was impossible for him to ride a bicycle. The only way that he could get to work was to hire a taxi. This man was  16262/71- ft- (23)  on the lowest possible income at the workshop. Each week he had to meet from his wages this high cost of getting to work because of his condition. Once again, I was told that this matter would be considered but the proposal was knocked back. 
I mention, finally, the provision of new railway systems in Australia. We have seen a deal of development over the last few years but, apart from the Whyalla-Port Augusta railway line, not much railway development is proposed this year. We know that a survey was taken of the proposed line to Alice Springs. But it does not appear that this project will proceed at this time because no mention is made of it in the Budget appropriations. This is something that we should continue to press. There is a great need to replace the existing railway line. Not only is it narrow gauge but also is it prone to flooding and so on. This is one project which because of its national importance should be pushed ahead. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What weight rail will be used in the proposed railway line from Port Augusta to Whyalla. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that the Tariff Board report on the Australian Shipbuilding industry will be available? 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the survey been completed by Commonwealth Railways of the proposed Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that the low powered television stations programmed to be erected at Woomera and Ceduna in South Australia will come into operation. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that the South Australian Government will receive a reply, to its request for Commonwealth financial assistance to complete the Lock-Kimba pipeline on Eyre Peninsula in that State? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees Furlough Act operate to reduce the furlough entitlement of Commonwealth employees either on resignation, retirement or in the event of the death of an employee, in circumstances where the employee has been convicted in a court of law for a minor civil offence. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice. 
How many applications for rural telephone connections are outstanding at the present time in the subdivisions of Eyre and Flinders in the Electoral Division of Grey. 
When is it anticipated that these outstanding applications will be satisfied. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Services. In view of the fact that restrictions apply to many Aboriginals in remote areas in applying for and receiving unemployment benefit if they are not in employment, what is the criterion laid down by the Department before these Aboriginals qualify for receipt, of unemployment benefits? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the electors of Grey respectfully sheweth: 
That strong resentment exists amongst members of the Kimba district and surrounding areas at the failure of the Federal Government to assist financially with the construction of the LockKimba pipe line in South Australia. 
Failure to have the pipe line constructed in the shortest possible time could place many farmers in the area in a position that will make it impossible to diversify their activities into more viable areas of rural production. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that - 
The Federal Government re-examine its decision in order that the completion of the Lock-Kimba pipe line can be expedited andby doing so alleviate the hardships experienced in the area by lack of an available and reticulated water supply. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Telecommunication Divisional Office at Parkes 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
When is it anticipated that the results of the actuarial examination of the Commonwealth superannuation scheme will be available. 
Has the Prime Minister noticed newspaper reports that the  President  of the United States intends making a visit to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? If so, has he received any communication from the United States  President  seeking the Prime Minister's OK for this visit in view of the fact that he expressed concern at the President's proposed visit to the People's Republic of China without first informing him? 
I would like to make a small contribution to this debate. First, I express my support for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  During the last 12 months we have seen a number of schemes introduced to assist people in rural industries. An amount of $30m was granted last year to assist people in the wool industry, this was made to tide them over a period because of the drop in income due to falling wool prices but the money provided under that scheme was allocated in, I think, a most inequitable way. We found plenty of cases where people who were thoroughly deserving of assistance got practically nothing out of it. In fact, I can cite the case, from my own area not far from Port Lincoln, of a farmer whose income was about $4,600 in one year and $4,300 the next year. Because on a percentage basis his income for the second year was 92.37 per cent - just over the 92 per cent prescribed - this chap was excluded from any benefits under the scheme. But the person on the next property, who had no debts on his land although he possibly had debts on machinery and so forth, received the $1,500. I might add that the person who wrote to me about this had total debts of about $60,000 on his property.  His  gross income was about $4,500 and this was one case where a farmer got absolutely nothing. 
I noticed in the Adelaide 'Chronicle' a letter from a rural producer attacking this scheme; he cited 3 cases. He mentioned a wealthy husband and wife team who received the maximum $1,500 each while the neighbouring soldier settler who was struggling and paying $800 a year rent received nothing. Sheep men were endeavouring to stay afloat by getting bigger only to find themselves with more work, more debt and no assistance while those lucky enough to be able to , shift from unprofitable sheep to highly profitable cattle all received the $1,500. Those who sold out well and retired in the normal course also received the $1,500. I think I read that somewhere along the line the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated that there were some injustices in this scheme. 
I move on to the next scheme which happens to be the rural reconstruction scheme. Although we on this side did not oppose the scheme it was said at the time the legislation was passed that the amount would be inadequate. I think South Australia received a total of $!2m to be spent over a number of years, and when one considers the debt position not only in South Australia but in other States also it is obvious that the amount that was allocated under this scheme was totally inadequate. Other legislation relating to the wool industry concerned the Australian Wool Commission. Whilst not condemning the Commission, I do not think that any of us know where it is going. This is obvious when one listens to what has been said by honourable senators opposite. There have been various viewpoints as to how the Wool Commission is operating, whether it is a success and whether it will finish up wilh a big stockpile oi: wool it will not be able to sell. So 1 think we can say that we are still not sure where the Wool Commission is going. 
We are not opposing what is in this Bill in principle in that the wool industry is to be assisted in the form of deficiency payments. The honourable member for Dawson mentioned that he did not object to those payments providing' that the money is put into the pockets of those people who genuinely deserve it. I submit that those producers who are entitled to this assistance, whether they be big or small, should receive it but they should have to prove their, entitlement to it. Just to give an across the board subsidy to bring the price up to 36c a lb is a. travesty of justice. I honestly do not believe that the Pitt Street or Collins Street farmers or other people who arc not directly connected with the industry and who have come into it purely as a taxation dodge are entitled to the deficiency payment. I am sure quite a number of people on the other side of the House think the same way. Although there were very many people in necessitous circumstances who received nothing from the S30m provided last year, under this scheme people who probably do not need assistance will get it. It seems that the Government has gone from one extreme to the other, there has been a big change of front. 1 do not have much more to say but I do suggest that the important point in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson and the main difference between himself and the Minister is the question of who will get the money. It is quite obvious from views that have been expressed by honourable members opposite that this difference of opinion exists on the Government side too. The Minister and the honourable member for Dawson also differ in their views as to the acquisition scheme and here again we see a difference of opinion amongst honourable members opposite. We have heard about 4 different views as to whether an acquisition scheme would be good or bad. The honourable member for Dawson has come out straightforwardly and put the Labor Party's policy which is in favour of an acquisition scheme. I conclude by urging that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson be carried. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10m immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the electors of Grey respectfully sheweth: 
That strong resentment exists amongst members of the Kimba district and surrounding areas at the failure of the Federal Government to assist financially with the construction of the LockKimba pipe line in South Australia. 
Failure to have the pipe line constructed in the shortest possible time could place many farmers in the area in a position that will make it impossible 10 diversify their activities into more viable areas of rural production. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that: 
The Federal Government re-examine its decision in order that the completion of the LockKimba pipe line can be expedited and by doing so alleviate the hardships experienced in the area by lack of an available and reticulated water supply. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will the track laying on the new Commonwealth Railways line from Port Augusta to Whyalla be carried out by experienced Commonwealth Railways track laying staff or by private contract. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Have Commonwealth Railways had any negotiations with the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Whyalla seeking guarantees from the Company on its. use of the new railway from Whyalla, for the transport of steel products to markets within Australia, when it is linked to the standard gauge railway at Port Augusta. 
In rising to speak on the estimates for the Department of National Development, I would like to confine my remarks to a particular point, this being the refusal of the Federal Government to consider favourably the request of the South Australian Government for financial assistance to complete the Lock-Kimba pipeline on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. The Prime Minister in 1969 announced a scheme to provide $100m to assist in water resources projects throughout Australia. The money to be allocated was to be recommended by the National Water Resources Council. At that time the South Australian Government was involved in a scheme to build a pipeline from Lock on Eyre Peninsula to Kimba, but due to the shortage of finance, the scheme could be financed only by spreading the cost over a number of years. However, when the Federal Government made the announcement concerning the $100m to be made available for water resources programmes, the South Australian Government submitted an application in January 1970 to the Federal Government for assistance under this scheme. 
In the report that was submitted to the Commonwealth Government, it was pointed out that the Lock-Kimba scheme is to provide a reticulated water supply for approximately 1,000 square miles of farm land and 10 provide an assured supply of water for the township of Kimba. Thus, it is a large distribution system to serve the needs of the district and of the farming community, and qualified for consideration under the Si 00m scheme. In the report submitted by the South Australian Government it was shown that the Lock-Kimba scheme was to serve an area which lacks water in quantities adequate to allow its rural industry to develop; that the scheme would serve an area which has sufficient rainfall to assure the growth of rural industry if water for stock purposes could be provided; that there is water of sufficient quantity and quality in the Polda underground basin to meet the demands of the area to be served; that the scheme is soundly based and designed and would lead to an increase in the gross national product; that the scheme estimated to cost $5,050,000, is an economically sound proposition; and that the South Australian Government has experienced difficulty in the past in financing the construction of the scheme from its own financial resources and has had to postpone the construction programme on one occasion already because of this. 
If the South Australian Government is to finance the construction of the whole scheme from its own resources, the work will take a further 21 years to complete, but if the scheme is financed from the national water resources programme, much earlier completion of the work will result. This earlier completion of the scheme will bring forward the increase in the gross national product expected from the scheme. The report further says that the most economical scheme in terms of a cost/benefit study is the one in which the construction programme is accelerated by the provision of funds under the national water resources programme. In the reply given to me and to the Premier of South Australia by the Minister it was stated that the Commonwealth was not considering giving South Australia financial assistance to expedite the scheme. It was stated that it was deemed inappropriate to provide special assistance under the national water resources development programme to support an expansion in the sheep industry in one area at the same time as the Government was involved in measures to alleviate economic problems in the industry generally. 
I submit that the Government came to its decision by looking solely at the sheep industry in this area and that it ignored other potential rural activities. The area is at present served by the use of local depressions which are able to catch run-off water in catchments, but unfortunately it receives intermittent and unreliable rainfall. This creates problems in stock carrying capacity in bad rainfall years. It has also been a wheat producing area but with the advent of the troubles within the wheat industry and the introduction of wheat quotas the farmers have felt the pinch, as have many other wheat producing districts. The lack of surface water restricts the farmers' ability to diversify into more productive branches of rural production. 
Practically every year the farmers of this district have to involve themselves in the very costly and time consuming business of carting water considerable distances. The State Government comes to the assistance of the township of Kimba, providing finance to assist in the carting of water to the township during the summer months. It has been doing this for a number of years. Despite these handicaps many farmers in the area have been able to increase their stock numbers to a large degree, particularly of cattle and pigs. An examination of the figures for the last few years certainly indicates this. To illustrate this situation I shall quote the number of pigs and cattle for the County of Buxton, which covers most of the area that will be affected by this scheme. In 1967-68 the county carried 1,497 cattle. In 1971 it is carrying 5.358 cattle. In 1967 it carried 1,528 pigs and this year it is carrying 5,492 pigs. It will be noted that the greatest percentage increases of stock have been in cattle and pigs, despite the problems associated with a lack of surface water. With the problems associated with wool and wheat the big hope of this area is to diversify into the more viable rural activities such as cattle. It is for this reason that it is strongly felt by everybody in the district that the Government made a very bad error of judgment in basing its rejection of the submission on the basis of the problems of the wool industry. 
It is beyond the resources of the South Australian Government to finance this project. This will mean that although the Lock-Kimba pipeline will eventually be finished it will be many years before this is so. Therefore I call on the Federal Government to reassess its attitude to this project. Many honourable members on the Government side have told us what they are doing to assist the rural industries which are in trouble. Here we have a rural area which has everything to make it viable but it will be held back by a decision of the Government which was based on a wrong assessment, that is, that the project was not supported because of the problems in the wool industry. This scheme has been the subject of a deputation to the Minister by State Liberal members within my area and by a South Australian Liberal senator, and I know that they received certain information from the Minister. I hope that we will be able to change the decision of the Government. Given the water that this scheme can provide, the rural industries can diversify. In conclusion I ask the Government to reconsider its decision and to provide financial assistance to the South Australian Government to enable it to complete the Lock-Kimba pipeline ina reasonable time and, by so doing, to give a new lease of life to this part of South Australia. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What steps have been taken by the Government to have the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act amended to provide for eligibility for pro rata furlough after 10 years service in place of the present provision which allows pro rata furlough after 15 years service, other than when retirement is due to age or ill-health. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a . member of the Australian workforce for many years,' has paid taxes and acquired Australian Citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In addressing myself to the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department I, too, would like to refer to the matter that was mentioned by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  namely, the plans to reorganise the Post Office. In my area, up to date the engineering activities of the Post Office have been centred in Whyalla. It did appear from the Postmaster-General's original statement that this reorganisation would mean the transfer of about 30 senior post office staff and people attached to that Department from Wyalla to Kadina. This caused a great amount of concern not only among the post office staff at Whyalla but also among the town council and neighbouring councils in the area. In fact, I have received a letter from the Spencer Gulf Cities Association which takes in 4 major corporations in that area expressing its concern that these activities were to be transferred to Kadina. 
However, when the Postmaster-General made his second statement he said: 
Approximately two-thirds of the district staff that was proposed to be transferred or moved by promotion or otherwise will remain where they are at present located. They will operate in circumstances in a situation similar to a business branch. 
I am sure that the Post Office staff at Whyalla realises that this means there will not be anywhere near as many transferred from that city as was intended under the original proposals. However, there is still some concern at the fact that the headquarters are to be moved from Whyalla to Kadina, mainly because there is a feeling amongst the post office staff that, although the headquarters will be stationed at Kadina and some of the other activities will be decentralised, there could be a tendency by the people in charge of the area headquarters to bring their senior staff closer together. This could mean in later years a greater concentration of people at Kadina instead of the decentralisation which was envisaged in the Minister's second statement. 
One matter that did cause concern among the people at Whyalla was whether a complete survey had been made of the comparative advantages of Whyalla and Kadina. As honourable members know, Whyalla is a growing city. It is a modern city with a population of over 30,000 people. It has all the necessary facilities. It has more or less been built up as a region that provides a lot of the services for the west coast area of South Australia, and it is felt by the people in the area that it would be much wiser to leave the area headquarters at Whyalla. Whyalla has many advantages, one in particular being that it has all the modern facilities of a city. There is readily available housing in Whyalla. There are continuing programmes by the Housing Trust to provide houses for the people there. There are adequate commercial facilities. I suppose most of the major Adelaide firms have branches in Whyalla. There are first class shopping facilities in the form of large supermarkets and so forth and all the activities that people look for in their living conditions. 
There is also a high level of educational activity in Whyalla. This would be of concern to the post office staff in furthering their children's education. It is possible to receive tertiary education at the Institute of Technology in Whyalla and I am sure that this is an advantage of which many of the children of the post office staff would avail themselves if they were still to be stationed at Whyalla. But of course, if they go to Kadina, they will not have these advantages. Because of Whyalla's natural growth, these facilities will increase. The hospital provides full services. It provides specialist services not only to Whyalla but also to most of the west coast and this is clearly one of the reasons why these departmental activities should remain at Whyalla. Its whole range of community services and facilities are as good as those which are provided in the metropolitan area. 
Although these comments relate mainly to conditions as they apply to the staff, I am sure they would also apply to a great extent to the post office operations. Whyalla serves the west coast Eyre Peninsula area where there is quite a lot of Post Office activity to be carried out, especially in the provision of rural telephones and 1 am sure that to have Whyalla as the centre would greatly facilitate the serving of this area. One other point was also made to me by one of the post office staff in Whyalla. Often they are called upon to use aircraft to carry out repairs and other services. At Whyalla, there is a first class aerodrome; at Kadina there is only a strip and I understand that the largest computer service in that area will not land its aircraft at Kadina. While 1 realise that Kadina will service western parts of New South Wales, I feel that Whyalla provides much better services than could be provided at Kadina. If the use of an aircraft from Whyalla were needed in a chartered plane a person could reach his destination in the time taken to travel from Kadina to Adelaide to get a plane there. I hope that a complete survey has been made of the relative advantages of these 2 towns because I am sure that if this matter were examined, Whyalla would be seen to have many more advantages than Kadina. 
I should like to conclude on a matter of television services. I have asked the PostmasterGeneral on a number of occasions about the television services to be provided on the west coast of Ceduna and also in the rocket range area at Woomera. I know that this is in the present programme of the Postmaster-General's Department and, although no date has been set for the opening of these television stations, I hope that the Department will see that the whole matter is expedited so that this modern media can be made available to these people as soon as possible. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth. 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $1.00 per capita immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2.00 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the United States  Deputy  Secretary for Defence,  Mr David  Packard, is to visit United States establishments in Australia, including Pine Gap and Woomera, can the Acting Prime Minister state whether it is possible to arrange for member of this Parliament to visit those establishments? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When will the Port Augusta telephone exchange be connected fully to the national STD network. 
asked the Minister or National Development, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth finance (a) has been and (b) will be expended on water resources projects recommended by the Australian Water Resources Council (i) throughout Australia and (ii) in each State 
What projects (a) have been and (b) will be assisted in each State. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities with properties within the boundaries of the City of Port Pirie (a) make and (b) do not make ex gratia grants to the City Council in lieu of rates. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What action has been taken to alter the existing sick leave provisions covering Commonwealth 
Railway employeesto allow accumulated half pay, sick leave credits to be converted by division to full pay sick leave. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: (1)Is the Office of Aboriginal Affairs negotiating with the owners of Everard Park in the north-west of South Australia to purchase this property for Aboriginal purposes. 
If so, (a) what stage have these negotiations reached and (b) when can it be anticipated that the matter will be finalised. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $1 per capita immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off then the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some 20 million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over 3 years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Were comprehensive surveys carried out by his Department of the facilities, growth potential, educational institutions and relative advantages of Kadina and Whyalla before the decision was taken to transfer certain post office activities from Whyalla to Kadina. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community; the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a. country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $1.00 per capita immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2.00 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government docs ail in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. Have he and his colleagues on numerous occasions in this House stated that the pensioner medical entitlement card and other fringe benefits have  a  value of $5 a week lor each pensioner? ls he aware that many age pensioners who are also in receipt of some Commonwealth superannuation recently received increases in their superannuation resulting in a reduction of their age pension entitlement and, in many cases, loss of their pensioner medical entitlement card? Is he aware that the loss of the pensioner medical entitlement card valued at $5 a week and the reduction in the age pension entitlement in many cases exceeded the amount of superannuation increase, resulting in many pensioners being disadvantaged financially, especially when they are now required to join a registered organisation to receive medical coverage? Does this not emphasise the need for the abolition of the means test, a promise made by the Liberal Party prior to the 1949 elections and a promise that has never been kept? 
-I would like to endorse fully the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  Part of that amendment reads: 
. . white not refusing a second reading to the Bill, regrets the failure of the Government, the responsibilities accorded to it by the Referendum of May 1967 ..." 
At "present there seem to be 2 parallel ways of approaching Aboriginal problems. One is the States approach and the other is the Commonwealth approach. To my way of thinking on many occasions they come into conflict with one another. Because there is this conflict I feel that we should take heed of the decision made by the Australian people in 1967. 1 feel that the Commonwealth should take over a greater responsibility in this field than it has in the past. According to the figures made available by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  there has been an increase from $3,650,000 in 1968-69 to $9,200,000 for this year. Whilst we can talk about percentage increases - there is a 31. per cent increase this year - it seems that when we kicked off we did not know where we were going and wc have just been giving percentage increases ever since that time. But those people who move around the areas where there are Aborigines will know that this is certainly not enough because not a great deal of progress is being made. We can see that progress has been made in some areas but not to the extent that it should be in view of the decision of the Australian people in 1967. 1 am well aware that there are many areas in which problems cannot bc solved overnight. Anybody who has been involved with Aboriginal problems will realise that these problems cannot be solved in a short time. But I feel that by providing more finance the Commonwealth Government can at least make a start towards solving Aboriginal problems. Reference is made in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle to the problem of Aboriginal housing. I suppose that housing is one of the 4 major items of concern with respect to Aborigines. The other 3 are education, health and employment. In referring to housing 1 might perhaps refer to my own electorate. Like the electorate of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  the electorate of Grey has quite a number of Aboriginal people in it. Some of these Aborigines are still in a tribal state. They live around the settlements, reserves, missions and so forth. In the southern part of South Australia the Aborigines, particularly in the towns, are sometimes quite sophisticated. 
Aboriginal housing needs could perhaps be divided into 3 areas. To begin with I will commence with the areas around the north west reserve where most Aboriginals still live in wiltjas which are cluttered around settlements and reserves. Perhaps we should start with what is required in these areas. The Aboriginals in the areas are living in the type of habitat in which they have lived for years, but in earlier times they lived a nomadic life. They were accustomed to moving on after a period and building anew at another location. They used to move around. But unfortunately they now come around the settlements that have been established supposedly in some cases for their benefit. In these settlements there are a few buildings which in most cases are occupied by Europeans and cluttered around these houses are the wiltjas in which the Aborigines live. I know that there are a few anthropologists who say that these dwellings are hygienic because they are dark and they keep out flies, they are airy, and so on. But whilst not being an expert on this I would say that these dwellings probably create a health hazard. Previously when the Aborigines were on the move they did not create an unhealthy situation. But now that they are not on the move but clustered around the settlements a health hazard arises. The Aborigines have got away from their natural foods. They have possibly lost some of their natural instincts for hunting, mainly because they rely more on the European type foods and I think to a great extent possibly the wrong type of European type food. 
Whereas previously the Aborigines used to hunt on foot, now one sees quite a few motor cars around these camps and the Aborigines use them to go out after kangaroos. The Aborigines augment their diet with the food they buy from the reserves. This is one of the problems. I understand that the Commonwealth Government has set up some prototype dwellings for Aborigines at Finke in the lower part of the Northern Territory. This type of dwelling combines some European aspects with some features favoured by the Aborigines themselves. From the photograph I saw of this type of dwelling there appear to be open rooms at both ends of the dwelling so that people can sleep out if they want to or they can cook out in the open if they so wish. I feel that there should be some research into this matter in order to work out what would be a suitable type of dwelling which could be used by these people so that they can get away from the health hazards which are at present created, while at the same time retaining some of their own ways of life, which of course they would not want to lose. 
I will now deal with the situation in some of the towns in the southern part of the State where there are fringe dwellings on the edges of the towns. I will refer to Port Augusta. The fringe dwellings there would not be the kind of dwellings one finds along the banks of the Darling River. There is a reserve just outside the town of Port Augusta which has some Aboriginal housing, although it is not really good housing. However, it is housing that can be used more or less as transitionary housing for Aborigines. In Port Augusta many Aborigines are able to get employment with the Commonwealth Railways, possibly the local town council, the Electricity Trust of South Australia and so on. The employment opportunities are there to a certain extent but these, towns do not provide all the employment opportunities that we would hope would be available to Aborigines. In these areas there are now many more Aboriginal children at school than there were in former years. When these children leave school there is a gap in providing employment for them until such time as they become adults and are able to move on and get jobs in other areas. 
By looking at the figures that were given by the Minister it will be seen that : $330,000 was made available for Aboriginal housing in South Australia. This amount of money which has been allocated to overcome the housing problem is only scratching the surface. 1 am aware that the Housing Trust of South Australia does allot a certain number of houses to Aborigines, but the Trust vets them pretty closely and it puts the screws on if the houses are not kept up to scratch. The Commonwealth contribution of $330,000 would provide only 33 houses in South Australia at a cost of $10,000 each. This number of houses goes nowhere near to solving the housing problem. It is a fact that there are employment opportunities in a number of these places but it is frequently found that no houses are available for Aborigines and they have to wait for accommodation. They have to wait until they are allocated a house by the Trust. I realise that at the present time the employment position in Whyalla is not really good but it is a fact that in this town some' time ago there were opportunities for employment but there was a . problem in providing housing. This meant in many cases that although the employment could be arranged the Aborigines were not able to take up the employment because of the shortage of housing. 
According to the figures supplied by the Minister in regard to the number of Commonwealth houses, 30 homes were built in South Australia but of that number very few were built in areas where employment existed for Aborigines. One of the amazing things to me is that in Port Augusta where there is a population of between 500 and 600 Aborigines no homes have been built for them for 2 years. I feel that if we are going to solve the employment problem we Will have to make a greater effort to solve the housing problem. I know that this is connected with other points but I do feel that we will have to make much greater efforts to solve this particular problem than we are doing now. 
Last week I attended a forum at the Adelaide University. The topic was 'Housing for Aborigines in South Australia*. At that forum one of the speakers was the Secretary of the Aboriginal Cultural Centre in Adelaide. Another  speaker  was a minister from a Methodist church in the Port Adelaide area. Both of these people spoke of the bad conditions that apply in respect of Aborigines in the cities. The first point they made was that a great many of these Aborigines are receiving unemployment benefits and that a great many are deserted wives. These people are not in a position to afford to rent a decent home. It was pointed out that frequently some of these people get together, pool their resources and rent a home, but when this happens the problem of overcrowding arises. I am sure that if honourable members opposite had heard what was said at this forum they would understand why the Opposition believes that the Commonwealth Government must take a greater interest in this problem and ensure that finance is available to enable a first class effort to be made to solve the problem. 
The Commonwealth should involve itself in many of the other problems which confront Aborigines. Perhaps I should mention a few of these problems. The South Australian Education Department has established schools in the North West Aboriginal Reserve but in some instances those schools are unsatisfactory. At Indulcna, for instance, the school consists of a brushwood fence with a brush roof at one end. The South Australian Government plans to construct a proper school in that locality but there are no houses for Aborigines there. They continue to live in wilchas. The teachers who have been appointed to those schools - I have spoken to several of them - are young and dedicated and have a genuine interest in Aborigines. We are lucky to have such people in these remote areas. When I visited the Indulcna area one teacher said that the teachers found themselves inhibited because, through the isolation of the area, they were not able to take the children on tours. It was suggested to me that perhaps the Commonwealth Government could come to the party and provide buses for this and similar schools so that the teachers could take the children on tours, possibly to the south but at least to areas where the children could see something different. It was suggested that this would help their education. The South Australian Education Department provides buses, but only to take children to and from school. The suggestion was made that the Commonwealth Government might provide buses to be used for educational tours. I realise that other honourable members wish to speak during this debate so I shall conclude on this point, fully supporting the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Fremantle. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in 1970-71 was disciplinary action taken against Commonwealth Railways employees which resulted in employees being fined under the provisions of the Commonwealth Railways Act. 
What sum in fines was imposed on employees. 
What right of appeal exists against these fines. 
For what purpose is the money collected from fines used. 
 I do not wish to keep the House for very long, but as the 2 stations that are proposed to be erected in South Australia are both in my electorate there are a few words 1 would like to say. Unfortunately, when the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  made a statement about the Ceduna area in 1969 the statement was in some way distorted and the people in the area were informed by the local Press that they were getting a powerful station which was to serve a pretty wide radius. Of course this was not the effect of the statement at all. A lot of people bought television sets because they expected that in the near future they would have a strong television station. Of course that was not so. 
Since that statement 1 have asked the Postmaster-General on a number of occasions when we can expect the station to come into operation. It is good to know that at least a completion date has been set which the people in this area can be told. When it was discovered that the announcement by the Postmaster-General, to the effect that there was to be a large station in this area, was not correct, there was extreme disappointment. It is still a very hot question in this area and it is one on which I receive numerous letters. Everytime I visited the area I am approached by various people to see what can be done about it. A reply I received about providing a larger station in this area to cover a wider radius indicated that there were no suitable topographical features from which a high power station could operate. People at places such as Elleston, Streaky Bay and towns on the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia will still be without television. If this programme finishes in 1974 it will probably be 1976 or 1977 before those people can hope to get television in this area. Although it has been stated that the stations at Ceduna and Woomera will be in operation in October 1973, some further thinking and planning should be done on the pretty vast areas on the Eyre Peninsula of South Australia which still do not receive any television reception. 1 hope that this plan can be brought to fruition within the next few years. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In cases where hearing aids are provided to age pensioners by the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories, are free replacement batteries provided to the pensioners by the Laboratories. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice:  (!) Did the Standing Committee on Fisheries, at a recent meeting, discuss the possibility of an import licence being granted to the firm of Oyster Farmers Coffun Bay Ply Ltd for the import of live oyster spat from Japan. 
If so, what (a) decision was reached and (b) reasons were given for the decision by the committee on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Supply the following question: 
Have the staff and equipment at Woomera Village, required for maintaining town services such as rubbish disposal and drain cleaning, been drastically reduced since 1967. 
If so, has this reduction caused a large accumulation of uncleared rubbish throughout the Woomera Village area, resulting in health hazards from flies. 
Have there been any recent outbreaks of hepatitis in the Woomera Village. 
If so, were investigations carried out by medical officers at Woomera as ' to the cause of the outbreaks. 
If investigations were carried out, what were the findings and recommendations relating to the outbreaks. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth Railway locomotive enginemen have been regressed on medical grounds during the last 3 years. 
What arrangements are made in respect to their wages on regression to a lower paid classification due to medical reasons. 
Are there any special compensations being considered for these employees due to the possibility of them being regressed at any time for a minor medical disability, and thereby reducing the degree of permanency in their particular classification. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many residences are owned by the Commonwealth Railways at its various operational locations. 
How many of these homes are (a) of brick or brick veneer construction (b) of timber framed construction and (c) temporary dwellings classed as sub-standard. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What Aboriginal projects have been assisted in the last 12 months from the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises in (a) South Australia and (b) the Electoral Division of Grey. 
1 direct my question to the Prime Minister, in the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When the United States of America and other recognised affluent countries grant aid for relief to a country in distress do they call on the United Nations Relief Fund to pay for the transport of their aid to that country? Why has this Government resorted to calling on the United Nations Relief Fund to pay the freight on the Australian aid to Bangla Desh when it is continually claiming that Australia is one of the most affluent countries in the world, and particularly having in mind that Australian ships are laid up for want of cargo and Australian crews are on unemployment relief? 
1 would like to compliment the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on the manner in which be presented his amendment. I certainly have much pleasure in supporting it. Since this debate commenced a number of Government supporters have referred to the pre-Menzies days and the days of Ben Chifley. They quoted figures which related to those times. However, those honourable members seemed to forget that the country was passing through a transitional period from war to peace. The Chifley Government certainly instituted in this country a policy of full employment. It has been a policy with which no government until now has been prepared to tinker. This policy has been maintained over the years because governments have known that if it is not maintained and if people have to accept growing unemployment Ministers will be tossed out of office. This is the way things are going now. 
The level of unemployment has increased to 130,000 persons. We do not know what the figures will be at the end of February. By the time the election comes around the people will have had enough of this Government and will toss it out of power. A lot of red herrings have been thrown across the pathway in regard to Bob Hawke, Leslie Haylen and so forth. I believe that the diversions have been a lot of rubbish. I think that in our present day society the unemployment that has developed has been brought about by deliberate acts of Government. It is a deliberate result of the last Budget. I do not think there is any question about this. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  said that the Australian Labor Party was interested in seeing a condition of growing unemployment. To him I say that members on this side of the House usually represent lower paid groups and probably come into contact with more unemployment than do honourable members from the other side of the House. We are fully aware of the effects of unemployment. Every one of us would look with compassion on anyone who was unfortunate enough to be out of a job. To say that the Labor Parly is trying to make political capital out of unemployment is absolute rubbish. 
I would now like to say something about conditions in South Australia. As all honourable members know, industry in South Australia is connected mainly with the production of consumer durables such as motor cars, refrigerators and so forth. As soon as the eastern States sneeze in regard to money South Australia catches a cold. This State feels the pinch because its industries are so closely tied up with the consumer durable industries. This is why South Australia is the first State to be hit. The Premier of South Australia is to be commended on his action to try to broaden this base so that South Australian industry is not completely tied to these consumer durable industries and is better able to absorb any effects of a tightening of the economy. 
The unfortunate thing is that the consumer durable industries in South Australia are those which employ a large number of migrants. These are the people who have been hit worst by the present growing unemployment. The Federal Government has been carrying out a migration programme and bringing people to this country. I understand that it is putting big. flashy advertisements in newspapers in London. Migrants come here and obtain jobs in the factories of General MotorsHolden's, Chryslers and others. However, they are there at the whim of the employer. As soon as there is a tightening of economic conditions, they are the first people to be placed on the labour market. They are the people least equipped to handle this situation. That is the position in South Australia. We certainly hope that it does not get any worse. Certainly some action has to be taken by the Government to get these industries back on their feet. I hope that this takes place quickly. If it does not, the Government knows perfectly well that the people will not stand for it any longer, and will put in a government that will restore the employment situation. 
Perhaps we can look at another section of our unemployed population. I refer to Aborigines who are in the underprivileged section. For them the amount of work available in rural areas is a lot greater than it is in city areas. I know that in my own area there is quite a number of Aborigines. Many have come into the Port Augusta area because of a slackening of employment in the rural industries and others because of a slackening of work in the cities. We have a growing number of young unemployed people. Most of them have not come in from the scrub. They have had a reasonable education, have knocked around and have had jobs. It is those people who are feeling the pinch in my area. One other area is the city of Port Pirie where the number of unemployed has trebled in the last 3 months. I know that this area contains a fair amount of the hinterland of Port Pirie, but this is the figure. The figure has trebled since the end of November. It has risen from about 300 to 910. 
I know that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  wants to have this Bill passed promptly. 1 say definitely that I deny what was said by the honourable member for Hume and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  about the Labor Party's attitude. The Labor Party does not want to see unemployment. I say this because of our close association with the people who are affected by unemployment. I speak of the effect on their children, their inability to pay for the education of their children and all the many associated heartbreaking problems. However, as I said, I know that the Minister wants to have the Bill passed by the House. Perhaps I should close on that note. I hope that this Mouse sees fit to support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Oxley. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that a growing number of medical cases is being treated in hospital outpatient departments, will the Minister consider amending the provisions of the medical benefits scheme to allow members of registered organisations to be re-imbursed the cost of medical services provided in out-patient departments. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Have opal miners been ordered by officials of the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera to move from opal bearing areas within 41 miles of Coober Pedy as reported in the Adelaide Advertiser' of Saturday, 19th February 1972. 
If so, will he, in line with the answer given by the former Prime Minister to question No. 3084 (Hansard, 6th May 1971, page 2861), review the need for these opal bearing areas near Coober Pedy to be proclaimed within, the Woomera Prohibited Area with a view to them being made available for development as opal fields. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Has any further consideration been given by his Department to the establishment of rehabilitation clinics in country areas. 
If so, has consideration been given to establishing a clinic in the northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia, covering the cities of Port Pirie, Port Augusta and Whyalla. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the rental for residences owned by Commonwealth Railways at Port Augusta and other locations recently been increased by approximately 28 per cent. 
If so, is this the second large increase in rentals on Commonwealth Railways' residences in less than 2 years. 
Is it a fact that the rental increases, coupled with a large reduction in the availability of overtime, has resulted in a considerable lowering of living standards of these employees, particularly among the lower paid employees. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Railways giving consideration to selling the many residences owned by it and occupied by its employees in Port Augusta and other towns. 
If so, (A) will the occupants of the residences be given priority to purchase and (B) will the purchasers be given any credit for the amount of rental that has been paid on these residences by occupants. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth financial assistance has been made available in 1971-72 to date to maintain the road known as the Point Lowly Road used to service the Point Lowly Lighthouse on the shores of Spencer Gulf, South Australia. 
Has there been any increase in the Commonwealth allocation to assist in the maintenance of this road. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned sitizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting inthe closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Supply whether his attention has been drawn to the deplorable circumstances concerning the 12m town of Maralinga in South Australia, established in the 1950s as a joint British and Australian testing area. Can the Minister say why this valuable asset has been allowed to depreciate to the extent that it has? Does the British Government still retain an interest in Maralinga? If not, can the Minister say what is  proposed for its future? Have approaches been made by the South Australian authorities requesting a transfer of the town's facilities for a useful and humane purpose? If approaches have been made, will he confer with the Minister for Defence to ensure that if the town is not to be retained for its original purpose, alternative proposals will be considered as soon as possible? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I would first of all like to protest against the manner in which this Bill has been brought on for debate. The manner in which other Bills have been introduced into this House by the Government recently and been used for blatant political purposes by honourable members opposite to try to drag red herrings across the path of the Australian people is to be deplored. It is quite obvious that the Government intends to rush this Bill through as quickly as possible. I understand that the Australian Labor Party spokesman on industrial matters was informed by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  that the Bill would not be brought on for debate until he had returned from overseas at the end of the week's recess after Easter. However, the matter has been brought on by the Government knowing full well that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would be denied the opportunity of taking a full part in the debate. I state those matters in reply to the comments which the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  has made about Opposition front bench members. 
I support my colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  in his opposition to this Bill, the Public Service Arbitration Bill 1972. It is a Bill that the Minister claims aims to make provision for sections similar to section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to handle particular situations that come within the Commonwealth Public Service. It is a decision taken by a government that appears bereft of ideas for handling an industrial dispute. It was pointed out clearly by the honourable member for Stirling that this goes a lot further than section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is a reaction we have come to expect from a government which sees the only solution to industrial situations as the introduction of more repressive legislation that can be used against employees and their industrial organisations - in this case it is the Government's own employees. The Bill seeks to give the Public Service Arbitrator or a  deputy  Public Service Arbitrator the power to make orders for the purpose of putting an end to or preventing what the Minister calls 'industrial situations'. One could be forgiven for thinking after reading the second reading speech of the Minister that the Commonwealth Public Service was a strike-prone area in Australia. Of course, this is not so. Whilst there are a few such areas which can be pointed to, an examination of the man-hours lost in industrial disputes in the Commonwealth Public Service would indicate that this is not the true position. 
The Bill includes a clause that defines an industrial situation' and is worded in such a way that looking cross-eyed at a supervisor could be interpreted as being an industrial situation. It is worded in such a way that the definition of an industrial situation can cover any incident that could occur that in any way slightly interfered with normal work in any Commonwealth establishment. Laid down in the Bill are the procedures that are to be adopted in an industrial situation. The Bill provides that the Minister or the Board, or an officer of an industrial organisation, if they consider a situation will or is likely to arise or that members of an organisation are concerned or are likely to be concerned, may give notice to the Arbitrator informing him accordingly and can make an application to him to exercise his powers under other sections of the Bill. In the last part of the Minister's second reading speech we can see the crunch in these proposed amendments in that the management can obtain from the Public Service arbitration tribunal the power to deal with any restriction on the performance cf work by making orders permitting the standing down without pay of employees who cannot be gainfully employed and/or by making orders affecting the pay of persons who refuse to perform the full range of their duties. The first power - that is, the right to stand down employees if they cann: be gainfully employed, is surely a new departure from practices that have applied in dealings with matters under the Public Service Arbitration Act. Whilst we have been accustomed to seeing provisions such as this used in proceedings under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it is a new provision in relation to Commonwealth public servants. I refer now to the second portion of the Minister's comments on this particular matter in which he said: 
. or by making orders affecting the pay, ot persons who refuse to perform the full range of /heir duties. 
The Minister went on to say: 
The power of the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator to make orders is not expressed in specific terms, however. We recognise that the tribunal must be given flexibility of approach in dealing with industrial situations. Nevertheless, we envisage that the tribunal may be asked to make orders, for example, relating to - 
the standing down of officers or employees involved in a dispute or who cannot be gainfully employed as a result of a dispute; 
application of the principle of 'no work-no pay' where officers or employees refuse to do all the duties they are required to do; 
organisations being directed to withdraw bans or stoppages; 
alteration of the terms and conditions of employment of the particular class of officers or employees in an effort to overcome the cause of the 'industrial situation'. 
If we take (b) which I have just referred to in the Minister's speech which deals with orders relating to the application of the principle of 'no work-no pay' where officers or employees refuse to do all the duties they are required to do, one can come only to the conclusion that this is not just very vague but also very dangerous. It is dangerous because if the Minister's interpretations are correct it has a dragnet effect to cover each and every situation that could arise in a Commonwealth undertaking, no matter how small or unimportant. 
Anybody who has had any experience in union activity knows full well the variety of situations which can arise in any work place whether it involves postal or railway employees or employees in any of the other Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities mentioned by the Minister. As a former union official having worked on the floor level I know of my own experiences in such situations. For example the question of safety on a particular job may arise and if there is any doubt whatsoever any union official worth his salt would advise his members not to touch the work in question. An argument may arise between an employee and his supervisor over the way a job should be done. A demarcation dispute may arise as to who is entitled to do a particular class of work. These are just a few examples of situations that can arise. Situations such as these are quite common in many work places and are usually resolved to everyone's satisfaction by a commonsense approach by union and management in 99 cases out of 100. However, they are all matters that could be defined under the provisions of this Bill as involving a refusal to perform the full range of the employees' duties should there be any delay to the work in hand because of a stop-work meeting or something of this nature. This is surely introducing a completely new principle into an area of industrial relations as they affect Commonwealth public servants, whether they be clerical or manual workers. I refer to the last of the matters mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech in envisaging that the tribunal may be asked to make orders relating to a situation. It reads: 
alteration of the terms and conditions of employment of a particular class of officers or employees in an effort to overcome the cause of the industrial situation. 
What does this mean? Does it mean that if an officer or employee or his industrial organisation does not toe the line, certain awarded conditions gran ed by the Arbitrator can be taken from him or his established rate of pay can be interfered with? If this is the case, it is obvious that the Government's attitude to industrial relations is going from bad to worse. 
One can only hope that this Bill receives the treatment it deserves and is soundly rejected. It will certainly not contribute to any improvement in the relations between officers and employees in the Commonwealth Public Service and the Government. The Bill is badly conceived and emphasises the Government's attitude that he only way to solve industrial disputes or situations is to use the big stick. Recently, some honourable members on this side of the House had an opportunity to have discussions with officers of a number of unions concerning employees in the Post Office. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  mentioned these discussions. One of the main complaints put up by these union officers was the amount of trouble they had in getting to see the top industrial people in that organisation and in the Public Service Board to discuss their problems. If this is the case - and I have no reason to doubt them - a change of attitude is essentia] if industrial problems within that organisation are to be put on a rational level. 
My own experience as a union official covering employees in a Commonwealth instrumentality has convinced me that the best kind of arrangement in establishing better working conditions and rates of pay is for these matters to be thrashed out over a conference table where it is possible to discuss fully any points or differences. Whilst you certainly do not resolve all your problems in this way, it is a far better arrangement than having to appear before arbitration tribunals with the threat of some penalties lurking in the background. From these discussions often come the consent awards between the employer and the employee which are agreed upon without any trouble. Commonweatlh Public Service employees already have a great number of restrictions placed upon them. They can be proceeded against under Public Service regulations and under sections of the Crimes Act. There are areas where they can be charged with a misdemeanour or breaking a workshop rule or by-law. In such cases, the head of a department becomes the accuser, judge and jury. He decides whether an employee is guilty of the offence and imposes the penalty. Surely if the Government is sincere in its desire to improve industrial relations with i s employees, it should look at matters that would speed up the operation of the functions of the Public Service Arbitrator so that the delays that now occur do not occur. 
Another complaint that has been heard for years, and as far as I know is still unresolved, is the matter that has to my personal knowledge denied the full increases granted to Commonwealth Railways employees following flow-on decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Decisions of the Commission in the national wage case have granted increases to apply usually from the first full pay day after a certain date, which is invariably a Monday. But the Commonwealth pay period starts on a Sunday, despite the fact that a great number of Commonwealth Railways employees do not work on Sundays. So they are placed in the position of having to work for another fortnight before they can commence a full pay period at the new rate. This means that Commonwealth Railways employees can be deprived of a full fortnight's increase, as their pay is worked out fortnightly. In other cases, they lose a week of the increase. I mention this as I have considered for years that this anomaly, although it may be small taken overall, has saved the Commonwealth thousands of dollars and has been a source of discontent among Commonwealth Railways wage employees. 
Another point of discontent is the amount of time that often elapses between the time when an increase is granted and the time when an employee receives the increase. I have known this to extend for over 5 months. Whilst some improvements have been made on this point following discussions between the union involved and, in this case, the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner, undue delays still occur. I am aware that determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator have to lay before the Parliament for 28 sitting days. But I am sure that some efforts can be made to reduce the waiting time for payment to be made. 
To return to the main points of the Bill, I fully support the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  and other honourable members in their opposition to this Bill because I feel that to extend to the Public Service Arbitration Act some of the obnoxious provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is a retrograde step. The Government is trying to introduce into relations with its own employees provisions that can lead only to distrust and resentment between the Government and those employees and their industrial organisations. In conclusion, I urge members of the House to reject this Bill. In fact, the whole Bill should be withdrawn as suggested by the honourable member for Stirling. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the per capita expenditure on Aborigines for all purposes in the Northern Territory in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Do divisional returning officers make periodical tours through remote areas of Australia for the purpose of enrolling Aborigines on the electoral roll. 
If so, when was the last occasion that this was done in the Electoral Division of Grey. 
Is it intended that an enrolment tour for this purpose will be carried out in the Electoral Division of Grey prior to the next general elections for the House of Representatives. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement of the Prime Minister at Cairns on 23rd April 1971 dealing with Aboriginal affairs policy. 
If so, what steps are to be taken by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs to encourage the use of vernacular Aboriginal languages for the purpose of Aboriginal education in areas where these languages are in common use. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Shipp  ing and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth Railways employees who are on compensation for a period exceeding 3 months, lose pro rata annual leave for the period they are absent from work on compensation. 
If so, will the Government take the necessary steps to have the relevant provisions in the Commonwealth Railways By-laws altered to ensure that these employees are not penalised by the loss of any annual leave entitlements due to their absence from work because of injury sustained in the course of their employment. 
Do similar provisions apply to employees in other Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Have negotiations been completed by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs for the purchase of Everard Park Station in South Australia for Aboriginal purposes. 
If so, what plans have been formulated for the utilisation of this Station. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many (a) - tradesmen and (b) other classifications have been recruited in the . United Kingdom &lt;by Commonwealth Railways- in- each of the last 3 years. 
How many of these (a) tradesmen and (b) other classifications have remained as employees of Commonwealth Railways. 
What has been the cost of recruitment programmes in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In what Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities has the management power to inflict fines on employees for disciplinary purposes. 
Although we on this side of the House are not opposing this Bill, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has moved an amendment which I think clearly outlines some of the aims of the Australian Labor Party in seeking a new Navigation Act. It is quite obvious that there is a need for a complete review of this legislation. As the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  has mentioned, as far back as 1967 a new Navigation Act was promised, but it has not yet come to light. This Bill is more or less just altering a very small section of the Act. 
I know that most of the points concerning the amendment and the main sections of the Bill have already been covered by various speakers tonight, and I  do  not want to say a great deal about that. But one point I should like  to  mention is that, although we are not opposing the Bill, there are many things connected with shipping around the Australian coast that give cause for concern. Perhaps one  of  the greatest things causing concern is the number of overseas ships operating around our coast. I fully support the honourable member for Stirling in what he said about Australian ships trading overseas being owned in Australia. I certainly oppose the viewpoint expressed by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who said that one  of  the things that is killing Australian shipping is the excessive demands made by the Australian shipping industry. He said that we cannot afford this. 
It is interesting  to  note that the United States has a very strong Navigation Act relating to shipping to and from the United States. I think that any comparison made between the conditions applying to Australian shipping and the conditions applying to the United States shipping would indicate that the United States is a long way ahead  of  us in this regard. I think that the argument advanced by the honourable member for the Northern Territory about the cost  of  supplying crews for Australian ships is erroneous. 
One matter that does concern me and, I think, members  of  the maritime unions at the present time is the number of Australian ships that are being laid up along the Australian coast. We know that while this is happening overseas ships are operating around the coast to the detriment  of  our own seamen. Perhaps I can mention a few ships built in various shipyards in Australia that are laid up. There is the Australian National Line ship 'Mount Kembla'  Of  13,700 tons and the ANL ship 'Mount Keira'  of  13,710 tons. There is the 'Wollongong', which is an ore carrier of 16,520 tons owned by Associated Steamships Pty Ltd. Those 3 ships are laid up and Australian seamen are out of work. But while this has been happening the bulk carrier Iron Somersby', which was built in Belfast, has arrived in Australia. Apparently this ship of 105,000 tons will replace some of the Australian ships that are laid up. I understand that Australian crews were to man this ship, but there is a bit of a dispute over this question. Apparently this ship is to operate under a 5-year charter. But of course nobody knows the arrangements concerning this charter or what agreements have been made. We do not know whether the same conditions will apply to this ship as applied previously to some oil tankers. When those overseas oil tankers were brought to Australia to operate on the Australian coast, the oil companies had to agree that they would replace those tankers with Australian built ships within a number of years. 
I think that this question of shipping generally on the Australian coast involves not only our trading position but also the people who man the ships on the Australian coast. I think it should be our aim - it is the aim of honourable members on this side of the House - to ensure that Australian built ships, manned by Australian crews, operate on an equal basis with overseas ships that operate from the Australian coast. At the present time there is a lot of hesitancy on the part of our ship builders because they do not know what lies ahead for them. 1 know this to be a fact. I had the opportunity to speak to the people at the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd shipyards at Whyalla, which .:s in my electorate. They are the largest shipyards in Australia. The people there told me that if they do not get another order within 3 months it will mean that their forward planning will be disrupted, and (his will result in a possible shortage of work. I understand that the Tariff Board report on the subsidies provided to Australian ship building yards has been in the hands of the Government for some months now. 
I did intend to elaborate on that particular point, but as you,  Mr Speaker,  have informed me that 1 would be overstepping the mark if I did so, I will not transgress again. I return to what the honourable member for Stirling said about proposed amendments which were talked about in 1967 still not having been brought into operation. I think that most of the questions that were raised earlier by the honourable member for Newcastle and the honourable member for Stirling concern matters which we would hope to introduce into a new Navigation Act when we become the government. 
MrWALLIS- No, I said 'when'. 
It has something to do with the amendment. I should like to return to the point that I raised earlier, and I hope that I will not be transgressing in doing so. I refer to the Ausralian ships that are laid up along the Australian coast. I feel that this is a matter about which we should be very concerned. Whilst our ships are laid up we are allowing more and more overseas ships to operate along our coast, and I fee] that this is against the best interests of Australia. It is something which I would hope we would be able to rectify when we become the government. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many man hours have -been lost by employees of Commonwealth Railways in industrial disputes in each of the last 3 years. ' 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister for Health given consideration to the question of medical benefit payments to contributors to medical benefits funds in isolated areas where the only means of receiving medical treatment is from hospitals without medical officers or where no doctors are available? In these cases the treatment is being administered by qualified nursing sisters. Because this treatment is considered to be out-patients treatment it does not attract medical benefit payments. I refer particularly to areas such as Coober Pedy in South Australia where the hospital is run by qualified nursing sisters and has only the benefit of a visit by the flying doctor once a fortnight. 
-I support the attitude that has been adopted by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  who spoke in complete opposition to this Bill, and fully endorse what they said. The honourable member for Stirling mentioned that last year the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the employers got together and were able to thrash out a number of their problems but, unfortunately, there was, it appeared, Government interference and what could have been the establishment of guidelines for a decent industrial policy in Australia was not permitted. I think this was done by the Government with the intention of making sure that the industrial peace that looked like coming about would not eventuate, because this was a matter that could be used for purely political purposes. It appears at this point that the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been introduced for purely political reasons. This is an election year. It is a year in which the Government is not faring too well, and it has to pull some chestnuts out of the fire. It thinks that if it can raise the question of industrial relations this will assist it. So it is quite obvious that this Bill has been motivated by purely electoral reasons. During the course of his contribution to this debate the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  referred to what the LiberalCountry Party Government haH done since it came to office in 1949. I shall mention a few of its actions. In the early 1950s the Menzies Government put more teeth into the Arbitration Act. This happened because of what is now known as the boilermakers case, to which the Prime Minister referred tonight. As a result of this case the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Industrial Court were established. Perhaps we should consider the background to this case. A number of boilermakers employed by Mort's Dock in Sydney, not under any instruction from their union, decided to take up a collection for members of another union who were carrying on an industrial dispute. The union was ordered by the then Arbitration Court to instruct its members to stop taking up the collection. The union said it could not, with a fair conscience, instruct its members to do such a thing. As a result the union was fined 500 or, in today's currency, $1,000. The union was not prepared to accept this and with legal assistance the matter was taken to the High Court. As a result of this case the judicial and arbitral powers of the Commission were separated and subsequently the Industrial Court was set up. The late  Dr Evatt  referred to this Court as the Court of Pains and Penalties. The enabling legislation was introduced and a prominent Minister of the Liberal Party who piloted it through this House eventually was appointed as Chief Judge of the Industrial Court. 
On a number of matters we have seen the Government carry out policies which have worked against the interests of the ordinary employee. It opposed the 3 weeks annual leave case in the early 1960s. Although it was agreed to in principle, the matter dragged on for the next 3 years until granted by the Court. The reasons the Government gave for this delay were the state of the economy and the possibility of Britain entering the European Economic Community. We saw the Government's support for the total wage concept. At the time the unions opposed this concept as they considered that the retention of the basic wage plus margins would have given the workers a much fairer deal. J, would fully agree with that at this stage because I think that the big differential which now exists between the higher paid and the lower paid worker has come about mainly through the operation of the total wage concept. 
It probably does. We have seen many actions since then which have resulted in a feeling against the Commission among the workers and which have in some way dissolved any confidence which the ordinary employer had in the Commission. If I may refer to a particular case concerning the firm of C. A. Parsons and Sons in Whyalla, the members of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society who worked at this establishment carried out what was at that time union policy, namely, a 12-hour limit on overtime. The union placed a 12-hour limit on overtime to cut out not only the individual greedy member but also to prevent the exploitation of the ordinary employee. The union wanted to cut out excessive overtime. The union considered that 12 hours overtime a week was enough. The firm took the matter to the Commission and the result of this action was that because the union members refused to exceed the 12-hour limit on overtime the union was fined a total of $2,000. 
I do not think this sort of this thing is conducive to happy industrial relations. I do not think anyone can say that 12 hours a week overtime is not an excessive amount of overtime. I think that we are all pretty well aware, particularly those members on this side of the House who have had anything at all to do with the trade union movement, of the whole history of the use of penal clauses in the past. We know what happened right up until the time of the O'Shea case. Prior to that case we saw the way in which penal clauses were used. Their use was such that they caused more disputes than they settled. This culminated in the O'Shea case in which we saw the Industrial Court back off and Government back off. As a result some improvements came about in the arbitration system. 
I wish to refer to another case. I mention these cases to illustrate the way in which unions have run foul of the Commission and the unfair manner in which they have been treated at times. This particular incident did not occur under the provisions of the Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Act but under Western Australian legislation. In this case members of a union were in dispute. Again these members belonged to the union to which I belong, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society. The members were in dispute with the Western Australian firm of Forwood Down Pty Ltd. The men were instructed to lift their ban and to go back to work, which they did. Some of the members were not satisfied and decided that they would resign. The firm involved was able to go to the Industrial Court from which it obtained a court order which denied the men the right to resign. The men then had to approach the Court to get permission to resign from their job. 
This was in Western Australia about 3 years ago. Another case involved about 6 chaps who were prepared to go to gaol rather than pay fines which had been inflicted on them individually. If I may deal with the proposed amendments to this Bill perhaps I could first of all refer to that part which deals with the state of the economy or the effect of a decision of the Commission on the economy. For a long time we have heard Government sup porters more or less give hints that the Commission should take into account the effects which any decision it makes might have on the economy. I know that a provision relating to this is included in the Bill. This will certainly give the Government greater power of intervention in cases so that an application will not be considered purely and simply on its merits; the question of the state of the economy will come into it as will also the effect of the Commission's decision. I think that the fact that the Government will be able to intervene will greatly strengthen its hand in appearances before the Commission. I doubt whether this clause is necessary, bearing in mind the decision which was given last Friday in the national wage case. It is obvious that somebody must have been listening to what the Government has been saying about any decision which the Commission gives because the Commission gave only a $2 rise and a rise of $4.75 to a worker in receipt of the minimum wage. 
It is quite obvious that the provisions of this clause will be used for political purposes. It would appear that the way in which the whole Act is operating at present will be the way in which it will operate in the future. We on this side cannot see any difference in many of the Commission's functions. The question of inflation will once again be a burden which will be placed on those who are least able to pay. This Bill could lead to an even greater lack of confidence in our present conciliation and arbitration system because it will sap away further public confidence in the system itself. 
Provision for the holding of secret ballots is another proposed amendment to the Act. I think it is obvious that the scheme of secret ballots must have some aura that attracts public attention. I would say that anyone who has any practical knowledge of this matter would realise that the operation of secret ballots is a little farcical because it is practically impossible to carry them out. This has already been mentioned by an honourable member who spoke earlier in this debate. Most disputes take place at job level. They take place before a union official knows anything about them. The official finds out when someone rings him up from the job and says: 'The members are out the gate. Will you come out?' The Union official does not know what it is all about until he gets onto the job, so what the devil is he going to do in this sort of situation? I would say that this is the position with 95 per cent of the disputes that take place. Disputes take place for various reasons, including the sacking of a union official or because of unsafe working conditions. Any number of situations could arise which might bring about a dispute and result in a decision by the men to walk out the gate, or they might have a meeting at lunch time and decide not to go back to work. The union official does not find out about it until afterwards. 
There is provision in this Bill to give to the Commission power to order the holding of secret ballots. One thing which intrigues me is the assumption that if a secret ballot is held the men will automatically reject strike action. This has not always proved to be correct. I refer to a secret ballot which was carried out among railway men in Queensland a few years ago when the men overwhelmingly decided in favour of strike action. What intrigues me is that if a secret ballot is carried out and the men decide to go out on strike or to take other industrial action, after a while some negotiations will take place, but what action will be taken to get the men back to work? Will a secret ballot be held to get them back to work or will a show of hands be relied on? That is one point that certainly is not covered in this Bill, mainly because in the argument of the Government it is assumed that every time a secret ballot is held the men will reject any suggestion of industrial action. 
Yes, that could be done. 
Just give me a minute and I will think about it. One thing which I did notice in that part of the Bill dealing with secret ballots is the list of penalties which may be imposed if a person does not abide by the provisions of the Bill. I thought one of them was pretty strong. It carries a $500 fine or 6 months imprisonment for a person who tries to induce a person not to vote. This seems to me to infringe a little on a person's civil rights. That is my own opinion. Another point which I think infringes on a person's rights is the matter of the bank account which is referred to in this legislation. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech said that 'union employer bodies exist primarily to protect and advance the interests of their members. It is the members who must determine the affairs of these organisations'. It is a gross interference in the rights of unions if they have to tell the Commission where they keep every cent. This is one of the reasons why we on this side most certainly have decided to oppose this Bill completely. It will certainly make it easier for the Government to pick up the money when a union is fined if it knows where all the money is kept. 
Finally I would like to deal with the subject of amalgamation of unions. As I said earlier I am a member of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society. I am a former official of that union. I was involved for a number of years in discussions that took place at branch level dealing with that union's amalgamation. I know the strong feeling that exists in these unions in regard to what has happened concerning amalgamations. 
Firstly, in deciding to amalgamate, the unions were giving effect to the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The unions held conferences a number of years ago and altered their rules to ensure that the amalgamations could be made. In doing this they had the advice of prominent counsel and, I understand, the benefit of discussions with the Industrial Registrar. They endeavoured to ensure that they did not run into problems. The matter was given all the publicity in the world by the 3 unions concerned - the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society, the Sheet Metalworkers Union and the Amalgamated Engineering Union. Now people have suddenly decided to challenge the amalgamations, right at the death knock, on the ground that nobody knew what was going on. Their arguments do not hold water. The amalgamation has been given wide publicity, including publicity in the journals of the unions involved. 
I have one such publication here for September 1970. The whole scheme was set out in a publication in January 1971 and to say now that nobody knew what had been going on is rubbish. It is obvious that the whole matter had the fullest possible discussion at top level, and by the various State branches. I know from my own experience that from the word go everything that was done was done according to the rules of the union; and it was never challenged. As I have said, the rules were changed to prepare for the amalgamation. The legal steps required under the arbitration system were taken. The Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and the Sheet Metalworkers Union were to go out of existence, and the rules of the Amalgamated Engineering Union were broadened to cover various new classifications. This, too, was done on legal advice and after discussions with the Industrial Registrar. The unions were advised by the Industrial Registrar that in order to bring about the amalgamation, the two smaller unions, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and the Sheet Metalworkers Union, would have to deregister. This, of course, they did. 
The only obstacle to amalgamation was the outstanding fines. The unions agreed to pay them. The Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society agreed to pay S17.000 to allow the amalgamation to take place. The unions were advised to act responsibly, in accordance with the law and the arbitration regulations. This they did. Everything was done after taking advice and consulting the Industrial Registrar, and it appeared that all hurdles to amalgamation were overcome. Ballots were held and carried by large majorities. In each of the 3 unions concerned a large majority of those who voted were in favour of the amalgamation. Everything had been done right and it looked as though this proposal was going to go through, until a few weeks ago when there was a bit of a bellow from the Democratic Labor Party about whether the Government would allow the amalgamation to take place. There was talk of pressure being put on the Minister who, apparently, was in favour of the amalgamation. I could quote what he said, but my time is short. 
We now have the Government with this Bill pandering to the DLP, which is opposed to amalgamation. Despite what the Minister for Labour and National Service said in a statement on 2nd March, we are now to have a situation where it will be practically impossible to bring about an amalgamation of unions because of the percentage of votes required in favour of such a move. It would be possible in a ballot in which 48 per cent of the membership voted to have 47 per cent in favour and 1 per cent against, but because the number of votes cast was not 50 per cent of the membership, the ballot would be invalid. That is a gross interference with the rights of unions. The ballot in respect of this amalgamation in my own union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society, was 3 to 1 in favour of amalgamation. 
I would say that there is no need for this legislation. Mainly as a result of interference by the DLP and pressure put on the Government by the DLP over allocation of preferences in the next election, in future it will be very difficult for unions to amalgamate. It is quite obvious that the Government has bowed to the DLP on this matter. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he receive a submission on 12th October 1971 from the Parent-Teacher Council of South Australia dealing with the financing of education in Australia. 
If so, has he replied to that organisation on the proposals submitted to him; if not, when may the organisation expect a reply. 
asked the Minister for Shipping  and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the South Australian Government submitted further proposals to the Commonwealth Government in an effort to expedite the scaling of the Eyre Highway in western South Australia. 
If so, have these proposals been considered by the Government and what is the attitude of the Government to them. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to the answer given to the honourable member for the Northern Territory by Hie Minister yesterday following a question about upgrading the Stuart Highway from Port Augusta to Alice Springs, in which the Minister stated that he would bring the honourable member's concern to the attention of the Minister for Roads in South Australia. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian State Government is stretching its resources to the utmost in carrying out 3 major roadwork projects in the sparsely populated areas of western and northern South Australia, namely the Flinders Highway, the Eyre Highway and the Stuart Highway? Does he not consider that the efforts of the South Australian Government to seal these roads is worthy of more support from the Federal Government instead of repeating his statements on the supposedly generous allocation to South Australia under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act, especially when it is noted that up to- 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has he studied the reports on the new desalination process called Sirotherm, developed by Imperial Chemical Industries, the CSIRO and the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories. 
If so, is it a fact that the process is considered to be potentially cheaper than any other large scale desalination process now being used. 
Will he give consideration to having the CSIRO, in co-operation with State authorities, establish pilot test plants using the new process at the opal mining towns of Coober Pedy and Andamooka, both of which have permanent water supply problems. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
In the design of the additions of the Commonwealth Railways workshops at Port Augusta which will house the diesel electric locomotive servicing sections, have all precautions been taken to ensure that waste products from this area, such as oil, etc., do not run into the adjacent waters of Spencer Gulf and thereby endanger the marine growth in the immediate vicinity. 
Can the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts inform the House whether the Commonwealth ever held an option to purchase Everard Park in north west South Australia? If so, was this station sold while the Commonwealth still held the option? Can the Minister confirm that  Mr B.  MacLachlan has now offered the property to the Commonwealth at the price at which he purchased it and whether this offer has been accepted? How does  Mr MacLachlan's  purchase price compare with the original price offered by the Commonwealth for this property? Will the Minister confirm the statements he made in the Press and elsewhere to the. ' effect that someone had gone behind the Commonwealth's back in the original purchase? Had the Commonwealth given consideration to exercising its powers to acquire Everard Park prior to  Mr MacLachlan's  offer to sell the property to the Commonwealth following the public outcry over the whole transaction? 
1 would like to make a small contribution to the debate on this Bill. As was indicated by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  the Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  refers to the national water resources development programme which was part of the scheme to give the States $100m for rural water conservation and supply works, flood mitigation and water measurement. This Bill covers the extension of this programme to a particular area of Victoria. The Press statement made by the Minister for National Development and the Victorian Minister for Water Supply refers to the Millewa scheme in the following terms: 
The project was not expected to change greatly present production of the area which was primarily wool and fat lambs together with wheat, barley and oats and some cattle grazing. 
The Ministers said the scheme would allow an expanded sheep population to utilise fully the improved pastures developed in recent years. 
I do not think there is anything controversial in that or anything with which anyone would disagree. I have not been to the area and could not dispute what has been said. But in the Grey electorate we have a similar area which has been the subject of an approach for a grant under the national water resources development programme. We certainly do not have the River Murray alongside but there is the Polda scheme which when connected with the other schemes on the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, can supply a great volume of stock water and water for other purposes to this fairly large area. There is one area near Kimba in the middle of the Eyre Peninsula which has been in trouble for a number of years through lack of water. It is a productive area but the whole trouble is that there is no surface water. The South Australian Government decided to allocate a certain amount of money to put in a pipeline from Lock to Kimba to service this area with water. Unfortunately the South Australian Government because of its limited finances has been able to allocate only so much a year for this scheme. It has done this and has made application to the Commonwealth for assistance under the national water resources scheme. 
I want to make a comparison between the 2 schemes. I have already mentioned the produce from the electorate of Grey and I will refer to an answer given to me last year by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  in reference to the Lock-Kimba scheme which services an area which also produces wool, wheat, barley and oats. In answer to my question the Minister said: 
The Premier of South Australia has now been informed that the Commonwealth is not prepared to consider financial assistance for the Lock-Kimba scheme at this stage. Having regard to the uncertain situation in the wool industry it is deemed inappropriate to provide special assistance under the National Water Resources Development Programme to support an expansion in the industry in one area, at the same time as the Government is involved in measures to alleviate the economic problems of the industry generally. 
The request for financial assistance was refused because it was considered that there was no future for sheep in that area. A Press statement by the Minister in conjunction with the Victorian Minister for Water Supply is as follows: 
The Ministers said the scheme would allow an expanded sheep population to utilise fully the improved pastures developed in recent years. 
What the Minister for National Development said last year in reference to the Lock-Kimba pipeline contradicts what he has had to say about this scheme. I am in no way trying to knock or oppose this scheme but I would like the Federal Government to apply the same thinking to the Lock-Kimba scheme. I would like to develop this argument a little further but I think that you,  Mr Speaker,  would probably call me to order. Now that the Government of South Australia has again made a submission to the Commonwealth for assistance to complete the Lock-Kimba pipeline, I hope that the Commonwealth will give sympathetic consideration to South Australia's request as it did to the request of the Victorian Government. The Victorian scheme is to cost $2.9m and the State Government has already spent $900,000 and the Commonwealth Government will come to the party with the remaining $2m. The South Australian Government is certainly playing its part. Last week it allocated a further $675,000 to the Lock-Kimba scheme and I hope that the Commonwealth Government will give further consideration to the submission made by the South Australian Government requesting financial assistance to enable the scheme to be finalised. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I raise tonight the matter of social service pensioners who have inadvertently - perhaps I can describe it that way - exceeded their permissible income and as a result lost portion of their social service pension. The first case I refer to is that of an old chap of about 75 years of age. Previously, he was in receipt of supplementary assistance because he was paying rent. He was offered accommodation in a house that had fruit trees on the land around it. The owner of the land informed him that if ho was prepared to water the fruit trees and look after the plot of land he could live in the house rent free. This he did. But, being an old chap, not very well educated and a little wary of officialdom, he did not inform the Department of Social Services. 
After a period of approximately 2 years the Department discovered that he had not been paying rent and took away his supplementary assistance. The Department calculated that he owed it approximately $236. He was informed that it would be taken back from him at the rate of $4 each pay-day, which is $2 week. I made representations on his behalf and this was reduced to $2 each pay-day. But it meant that he suffered a drop of $6 a fortnight in his pension. This consisted of $4 in supplementary assistance and $2 in repaying What he was overpaid by the Department of Social Services. It was impossible for this man of 75 years of age to obtain work or supplement his income in any way. He had to exist on a standard which was well below what was accepted as the standard for a pensioner at that time. He was left without adequate money on which to live a decent sort of life. 
The second case that I raise is that of a married couple. The husband was allowed to earn approximately $800 a year. He took a job assisting at a drive-in theatre. He had an arrangement with the employer that when his earnings reached $800 he would be informed and he would cease work. I do not know whether he did this consciously or unconsciously, but he allowed his income to exceed the $800 mark. I think the figure of earnings that he ended up at was approximately $1,200 for the year. In this case the Department of Social Services went back to the anniversary of his pension, which was in January. He had reached the $800 mark about the following August. When the Department found out that he had exceeded his permissible income, it went back for the whole of the pension year and adjusted his pension accordingly. The last I heard from the Department was that under the formula that had been worked out he and his wife would have to repay this amount of about $236 to the Department at the rate of $6 a fortnight each. He is now in a position in which, if the Department goes ahead and Sakes this amount out of the pensions of him and his wife each fortnight, they will have to live well below the level of the ordinary pensioner. He has now reached the stage where the position in which he was supplementing his pension does not exist and he and his wife living on $12 a fortnight less than the married rate pension with very little chance of obtaining work to supplement their income. 
The third case I want to refer to is that of a married woman whose husband died about 4 years ago. He left her with 3 kiddies who were going to school. These people were purchasing a home. Two of the children have now left school but the woman still has one child at school. She is still trying to pay off the home. She had to take a job to assist her to give her children a decent standard of living. She informs me that she had an arrangement with her employer to inform her when she reached her permissible income. She exceeded her permissible income. Although she has only one son still fully in her charge she is in difficulty because of the heavy payments she has to make. She and her husband tried to pay off the house before his death. She informed me that she has reached the stage that when her son wants to go away with his school on football trips and sporting tours she has to refuse him permission because she cannot afford the expense.  Her  main difficulty is the heavy payments she has to meet on her house. 
In each of these cases the pensioner concerned has received more than the income allowed by the Department of Social Services. In most such cases the Department insists that the money be paid back. On occasions the Minister has adopted a compassionate attitude. I have in mind the case raised by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  in which the Minister agreed to rectify the position. I think we can assume that the pensioners are to receive increases. They are also to benefit by an easing of the means test. They certainly will be assisted a fair bit when the legislation is passed. Had the conditions that are to apply been applied when these people were receiving the extra income it is quite evident that they would not be in the position they are in today where they have to pay back considerable amounts of money to the Department of Social Services. They are forced to reduce their standard of living. 
Most pensioners are to receive increases. The Labor Party certainly will not oppose the legislation for increased pensions and an easing of the means test. Pensioners will then be in a better position. I suggest in all seriousness that in view of anticipated developments in the social service field within the next few weeks the time has come to have a look at these cases involving pensioners who have to return excessive pension amounts paid after the people concerned had received more than the permissible income. The Government could declare an amnesty for these people. I am not sure of the powers of the Minister in such cases but, as I said earlier, he did act in the case raised by the honourable member for Sydney. I earnestly hope that the Government will consider the position of the pensioners I have mentioned and declare an amnesty in respect of their debts, particularly in view of the changes about to take place in social service benefits. 
We have just heard from the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  another tirade of abuse of the Labor Party. He has continued the policy of the Liberal-Country Party Government over the last 23 years, using scare tactics as a weapon against the Labor Party. But I am afraid that it is too late. The Australian people irrespective of what the Government does, will make their decision within a few months and I am positive that the Government will be tossed out of office. I wish first in dealing with the Budget to turn to the pension increases. We do not oppose them but we feel that they do not go far enough for pensioners who rely wholly and solely on inadequate pensions. When Labor comes to power we will raise pensions to a level which will allow pensioners to enjoy a decent standard of living. 
It is true that the Government plans to abolish the means test. We have advocated that move since 1954 but numbers of 
Liberal-Country Party governments have decried the suggestion year after year, election after election. They have said that it could not be done. Now, because of the influence of the gallup polls which show a trend against the Government, Government supporters are feeling the hot breath of the Labor Party down the back of their necks and they can suddenly find that it is possible to follow our suggestion. We certainly do not oppose the move and I assume that we will give the legislation enacting the social service improvements a swift passage through the House. In that way pensioners can soon receive the full benefits to which they are entitled. 
Improvements are made in the area of supplementary assistance for pensioners who are paying rent, but pensioners who own their own homes and have no income but their pensions have great difficulty in paying council rates. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  referred to this difficulty. I am a little disappointed that recognition has not been given to this problem. Pensioners have told me of the problems they face in paying rates. Some local government bodies do give assistance. Submissions have been made to the Federal Government to grant assistance to pensioners to pay their rates but unfortunately no such assistance has been provided for in the Budget. 
In this debate various references have been made to the days of the Chifley and Curtin governments and to the child endowment paid before the Chifley Government was defeated. In purchasing power the child endowment then paid would be worth much more than it is today. In 1949 the Menzies Government promised child endowment for the first child. That factor helped to defeat the Chifley Government but since that time Liberal and Country Party governments have not given the same consideration to people receiving child endowment. It certainly has not retained its purchasing power. 
The social service provisions of the Budget will certainly not assist a great deal the people who are living purely and simply on their pensions. We will need to correct that situation when we become the Government after October or November. The Budget is certainly aimed at some key middle class electorates in the suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne, as was claimed by the Leader of the Opposition. The people in those areas seem to be receiving the benefit of the Government's generosity while many lower paid workers and less fortunate members of society are being ignored. 
I wish to refer once again to the taxation provisions of the Budget. Many grandiose . statements appeared in the Press about how in this Budget there are taxation benefits for everybody. The average back bencher in this Parliament will receive about an extra $16 a month as a result of the tax cuts, but the lower paid workers will certainly not get . very much out of the Budget. On the night that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  presented the Budget he handed out a document giving examples of the tax benefits. It showed that a man receiving $67 a week, with no dependants, will pay $1.09' a week less in taxation. Many people in my electorate - semi-skilled and unskilled workers - receive a great deal less than $67 a week. A taxpayer receiving $67 a week who has a dependent wife and 2 dependent children will pay $1.21 less a week in -taxation. A similar taxpayer with a dependent wife and 4 dependent children will pay $1.29 a week less. The document also instances the worker on the average national wage of $98 a week. More than 65 per cent of workers do not receive that amount. A man receiving $98 a week who has no dependants will pay $2.14 less a week in taxation. A worker on that wage who has a dependent wife and 2 dependent children will pay $2.75 a week less in taxation. A worker receiving $98 a week who has a dependent wife and 4 dependent children will pay $3.09 less a week in taxation. 
Where is the generosity of the Government to be found in those figures? I could give many other examples but I have given an illustration of the effect of the tax cuts on the 2 most important classes, a worker on the average national wage and a semiskilled worker or somebody of about that classification. 
The only conclusion we can reach after studying the document issued by the Treasurer is that the Budget is designed for the middle and upper class income earners. The examples I have given show what is in the Budget for the lower paid worker. He misses out not only on child endowment increases to assist him in maintaining his wife and family at a decent standard but also on taxation remissions. The Treasurer provided a lot of percentage calculations to serve as a smoke screen for the real figures. 
I turn now to deal with health matters which should be considered by the Government. The first matter was raised by me with the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  a few months ago. It concerns hush hospitals at which there is no doctor. There are no permanent doctors stationed at a number of hospitals in my electorate, and anyone seeking medical treatment must rely on the services given by a fully qualified nurse. These are services which, h* one lived in a city or a town where there are doctors, would normally be provided by a doctor who would issue his patient with a prescription and the patient would be able to claim and recoup his expenses from his medical insurance fund. But because there are not permanent doctors at these hospitals, the people seeking medical services are treated as outpatients. They can claim as often as they like from their medical insurance funds but they will get nothing back. This happens in the 2 opal mining towns of Coober Pedy and Andamooka in my electorate. These people subscribe to a medical fund but unfortunately they receive nothing back from it unless they can visit the flying doctor on his regular fortnightly or 3-weekly calls. There are also throughout my electorate many small community base hospitals that are caring for pensioners and which now receive from the Federal Government $5 a day to cover the costs incurred in caring for these pensioners. Many of these hospitals are in grave financial difficulties. According to the last figures which I saw, it costs Si 6 to $20 a day to keep the pensioners in these hospitals but there has been no increase in the amount of $5 a day which is paid by the Government to bush hospitals. 
I should like to say a few words on the question of transport. I suppose that on this question, my electorate possibly did come out the best from the Budget in that the Government, after a lot of prodding and submissions by the State Government of South Australia, has agreed to provide $2.5m to the South Australian Government to allow it to complete the sealing of the Eyre Highway to the Western Australian border over a period of 4 years. This is certainly welcome and we hope that the provision of these funds will enable the job to be expedited. However, this finance is long overdue and its provision shows a change of attitude on the part of the Federal Government which, in the past, has thrown the whole responsibility for the sealing of this highway on to the South Australian Government. I would also hope that, in the survey of our national road systems, the Stuart Highway will receive a fair amount of attention as it is important not only to the lower part of South Australia but also to the Northern Territory. The South Australian Government has been doing its bit in that it is sealing sections of the Stuart Highway but I do not think that the South Australian Government can do the job alone. If it did, it would take quite a considerable amount of time. I could mention the question of subsidies on shipbuilding and the proposed imposition of excise on liquid petroleum gas and other gases used for fuel but I know that these matters will be discussed at a later date in the debate on the Estimates. 
One other very important point for which the Government stands condemned is the unemployment problem in Australia today. The Opposition knows that the current level of unemployment is a direct result of the last 2 Budgets and we do not believe that the measures the Government proposes to take in this Budget will greatly reduce unemployment. We are at a stage where there is no growth in employment opportunities and we can look forward only to the unemployment figures at the very best remaining where they are. They may even get worse. The Australian Labor Party certainly hopes that the unemployment situation does not worsen but 1 am afraid that the moves which the Government has made are a little late. All that the Opposition hopes for from the Budget is that it does reduce unemployment. Unemployment has had a serious effect in South Australia. In any turn down in the Australian economy, South Australia in usually the first State to be hit because it relies in the main on its consumer durable industries. As soon as there is a slackening off or a turn down in the economy, the goods that South Australia produces are first hit. This has been the effect in South Australia. The Dunstan Government has recognised the problem of the State's complete reliance on consumer durable industries and has made every effort to try to broaden the industrial base of that State so that, in any period such as we are now going through, there will be other industries with a broad base that can cushion the effect in South Australia. Unfortunately, we also find that it is in these industries where the greatest number of migrants are employed and when there is unemployment in these industries and a slackening off in employment opportunities, it is the migrants who are the first hit. 
I should like to refer to another matter which did not receive much mention in the Budget - in fact, I do not think it was mentioned at all - and that is the question of decentralisation. There is no doubt that at present, with the growth of our major cities such as Sydney and Melbourne and with the difficulty experienced by these cities in providing services for their increasing populations, decentralisation or the setting up of regional centres becomes of great importance. Unfortunately, this matter has not received a great deal of attention in the Budget and the Opposition feels that the Government stands to be condemned for this omission. Perhaps I could refer again to the pre- 1949 years, when the Chifley Government did plan for decentralisation in Australia. We had an example of this in South Australia in the setting up of an industry at Wallaroo. However, unfortunately in later years, because of certain factors, this industry had to be closed. In his 1949 policy speech,  Sir Robert  Menzies promised the following:   . . a positive decentralised national programme of rural production, to be carried out cooperatively with the States and with regional and local authorities. 
However, this undertaking remains unhonoured. In 1964 when  Sir John  McEwen was Acting Prime Minister of Australia, it was agreed to establish a conference of State and Commonwealth officers and a committee on decentralisation was set up. I understand that this committee has met on only 3 or 4 occasions and, up to date, we have seen no tangible results of its formation. 
It is obvious that the whole question of decentralisation has been left completely in the hands of the States. Of course, some of the States are trying to overcome the problem while others are doing absolutely nothing about it. Perhaps I could refer again to South Australia because the South Australian Government is trying to set up areas outside the Adelaide metropolitan area. South Australia did set up the city of Elizabeth, about 17 miles from Adelaide. This was carried out by the benevolent dictator,  Sir Thomas  Playford, but, as Elizabeth is only 17 miles from Adelaide, I do not know whether it can be called decentralisation. However it was an effort to move people away from the heart of the city. South Australia has gone a long way in trying to provide an incentive for industries to move away from the major city of Adelaide. Perhaps I could summarise some of the assistance which the South Australian Government gives to industries which are interested in moving to country areas. What assistance the Government does give, it is prepared to provide anywhere in the State. The Government has established an industries assistance corporation which is prepared to  assist with finance. It is prepared to back loans up to 100 per cent, lt is prepared to back loans for people who want to purchase land and buildings, for plant and machinery and for research, development and expansion. The South Australian Government is prepared, through the South Australian Housing Trust, to provide houses for employees in areas where these industries are set up and it has built a number of houses in country areas. The figures for areas such as Port Pirie, Whyalla and Port Augusta would show that the number of houses owned by the South Australian Housing Trust in those areas is considerable. 
The South Australian Government, by paying subsidies, has made country freight rates uniform with those applying in the metropolitan area. The tariff for electric power in country areas is also uniform with that applying in the metropolitan area. The South Australian Government is prepared to assist in the provision of design and aid and also in the purchase of premises. The South Australian Government has attempted to do all these things. Decentralisation is one of the main points in the platform of the Australian Labor Party. At the conference that was held in 
Launceston last year a definite policy was laid down to encourage industries to move away from the capital cities and to achieve regional development. It was resolved at Launceston that:  a Labor government would establish a Department of Housing, Urban Affairs and Regional Development with responsibilities which would include: 
Advising the Australian Government on proposals for urban and regional development received from the States and Local Government; 
Initiating and co-ordinating research into urban and regional development; 
Providing advice and assistance requested by the States aird their authorities in the preparation and implementation of plans for cities and regions; and 
Using Commonwealth economic powers and structures to promote and concentrate regional development. 
As I say, I think it can be expected that a Labor government will be elected at the next general election irrespective of what is said on the Government side of the House. I hope that as soon as we win government we will set up that ministry and will be able to move into an area that has been completely ignored, namely, regional development, and take the weight off our large cities where land is at a prohibitive price and where services cannot be provided. The outskirts of all our major cities are unsewered. The only way we can do this is by establishing regional areas to take the weight off our cities and provide a decent life and good living standards for the Australian people. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did officers of his Department carry out an economic survey of the prawn fishing potential of South Australian waters. 
If so, when is it anticipated that the report will be made available. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many (a) maintenance fettling gangs and (b) special gangs are operating along the Commonwealth Railways, east-west and northsouth railway lines. 
How many of these gangs have a fully qualified first aid man as a member of the gang. 
What payment is made to Commonwealth Railways' employees as an inducement for them to become qualified in first aid. 
What classifications of employees of the Commonwealth Railways are required to be qualified in first aid as a condition of promotion. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the comments of  Sir Ian  McLennan of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in the latest publication of that Company in which he refers to the need in the future to deepen the harbour at Whyalla to enable that port to take ships in excess of 100,000 tons. 
If so, are there any plans to deepen the port to enable it to handle the larger ships now being used in our shipping activities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
As many long service leave awards, agreements and State Acts provide for a qualifying period of 10 years or less under certain circumstances, will he take steps to amend the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act to provide pro rata long service leave for all Commonwealth employees after 10 years service instead of the present 15 years. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Supply. Has the Minister any further information on the question that I have raised with him concerning the removal of opal miners from the opal bearing areas south of Coober Pedy in South Australia by officers of the Woomera rocket range earlier this year? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Mentioned in the various sections of the amendment are all the things for which Australia has stood condemned in the past. I suggest that the House should support the amendment because, by accepting it, it will at least show that it is really fair dinkum in its attitude towards solving the problems of Aboriginals. The first point in the amendment condemns the Government for not accepting its full responsibility in Aboriginal matters following the referendum in 1967. The Bill before the House is the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill. The Opposition feels that the Commonwealth, instead of just passing money on to the States as it does, should be taking a greater interest itself, mainly because the attitudes to Aboriginals vary from State to State. Some States have a particularly bad record of treatment of Aboriginals. Others are a little better. I do not think that any State is perfect. I feel that this variation between the States in their attitudes to Aborigines is one of the reasons why the Commonwealth should take full responsibility, and that is one of the reasons why the first point in the amendment should be accepted. 
The amendment refers to the Government's neglect to consult the Aboriginal people. Arguments could probably be developed on this point. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and other speakers have already pointed out areas where the Government has not consulted the Aboriginal people and, as a result, has taken the wrong course. The amendment refers to the Government's refusal to restore land rights to Aborigines. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  covered that matter pretty fully and so did the honourable member for Lalor. The question that worries me most is the question of housing. In the paper issued by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  we see a list of houses to be built by the Commonwealth. With the increasing growth of the Aboriginal population - it is a fast growing section of the Australian people - we are not overcoming the problem. We are not catching up with the increasing growth. We are not really getting at the teeth of the problem. 
Something has been said today about non-European housing. The electorate which I represent contains a fair number of Aboriginal people, from the people in the north west corner who have had contact with the white man for only a few years, to the possibly more sophisticated people in the south - people with regular jobs, living in Europeanised conditions. In the north west Aboriginal reserve, where the housing position is possibly the worst, people are still living in humpies. They are not living as they did in the past when the humpy was probably suitable accommodation. As soon as they tired of a particular area or as soon as the area was befouled they moved on and built more humpies, wurlies, or wiltjas as they are referred to in the Pitjantjatjara. I have taken the opportunity to look at some of the accommodation of the Aboriginals in the north western area. These people are experimenting. They have tried a few things such as wire mesh frames with coverings over them, Nissan type huts and so forth. Of course, most of the people are still living in the wiltjas in which they lived before. I have heard an anthropologist say that this is the way in which they want to live and that a set environment could be unhealthy. The number of animals such as dogs around the place could cause a lot of the ill health that is experienced in this area. The mortality rate in that oval piece of country from the north west Aboriginal area to Alice Springs is very high. I certainly hope that with the efforts being made by the South Australian Government and with the provision of health services by the Federal Government, these mortality figures will be reduced considerably. 
I think the most important point, and one with which I come into contact a great deal, is employment. I have been notified by the Commonwealth Employment Service at various times about the amount of unemployment in my area. Although I do not say that the figures are fictitious I would like to point out that the Service is registering only those who come along and report to it. However, there are very many itinerant people who stay in a town for a short time and then move on because they do not pick up a job straight away. Of course, as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said, the people who come down from the rural areas and the north possibly are not quite used to an urbanised society; they run into social problems, trouble and so on. The training of people for employment also is important. Training schemes could be started on reserves in the north-west. I think that if we are to do the right thing by Aboriginal people we have to overcome the problem of employment. 
We have a pretty bad situation when we link the problem of unemployment with poor educational opportunities that existed in the past, bad health conditions and so on. I realise that the South Australian Government, with possibly some assistance from the Commonwealth, has provided improved educational facilities for Aborigines. I know that a number of Aboriginal children are going to the local high school in my area. Some of these children have reached third and fourth year level and are equivalent in ability to quite a number of white children. But I am afraid that once Aboriginal children receive an education they do not have the opportunity to get the jobs that they want. 
Much was said earlier about angry Aborigines. I think that we are really courting trouble if we educate Aboriginal children in an urbanised or country town situation and then throw them back on to the scrapheap. What we have is a person with  a  reasonable amount of education but who is unemployed. Mention has been made of protests. I think that these people will protest and that they have every right to do so if we  aTe  to throw them back on to the scrap-heap. 
I can see some advances being made in my area. I think it could be admitted that the South Australia Government has possibly the most progressive ideas in relation to Aborigines. However, at the same time I think that the South Australian Government and indeed, all of us would admit that there is still a long way to go. As the honourable member for Fremantle has said, the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition sets goals - goals which I think are attainable and which I hope this Parliament will see are carried out in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has his Department evaluated the pilot rehabilitation schemes established at Newcastle and Townsville. 
If so, (a) has this resulted in any plans to expand these activities to other areas and (b) has consideration been given to establishing such a scheme in the Northern Spencer Gulf area of South Austrafia. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that a further delay appears likely in the establishment of a television station to serve the Ceduna area of Eyre Peninsula io South Australia which previously was programmed to commence operations in June 1973? What are the measures that will result in the likely postponement of the commencment of operations of this station? When can it now be anticipated that this station will commence operations? Are similar delays likely to occur in relation to the commencement date for the television station at Woomera which the Postmaster-General said in a statement was programmed to commence operations in October 1973? 
 I should like to make a few comments on the estimates of the Department of National Development. Recently we had circulated to us a copy of a statement made by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  titled 'Australia's Natural Resources - Minerals, Forests, Water and Energy'. It is a very interesting document. It contains quite a deal of information. But one point about it is that it clearly indicates how much of Australia's resources have been given away to overseas interests. Recently the Government introduced guidelines in order to put a bit of a brake on the taking over of Australia's resources by overseas companies, overseas shareholdings and so forth, but I am afraid that this step has been taken a little bit too late because if we look through the Minister's statement we find that the greatest part of Australia's mineral resources are now controlled by overseas interests. If we want to get back some control, legislative action will have to be taken by a future government. 
As I said, our mineral resources already are well under overseas control. Perhaps 1 can just go through the Minister's statement and refer to a few of the minerals. The first is tin. Australia has a fair amount of equity in the tin industry and possibly in the uranium industry. But if we refer to iron ore we see that in Hamersley Holdings Ltd, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd has 54 per cent equity, the Kaiser Steel Corp. has 34.5 per cent equity and the balance of the equity is held mainly by Australian shareholders. In Goldsworthy Mining Ltd, Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd has a 33i per cent interest, the Cyprus Mines Corp. has a 33V per cent interest and the Utah Development Co. has a 33i per cent interest. Mount Newman Joint Ventures is owned 30 per cent by Dampier Mining Co. Ltd, 30 per cent by Pilbara Iron Ltd, 25 per cent by Amax Iron Ore Corp., 10 per cent by Mitsui-C. Itoh Iron Pty Ltd and 5 per cent by Seltrust Iron Ore Ltd. If we look through the other companies we find a fair percentage of overseas holdings. The only fully Australian owned company engaged in the development of our iron ore fields, of course, is the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The same comment can be made about the Koolanooka project. Cliffs Robe River Iron Associates and the Savage River Mines Joint Venture. 
The same comment applies to the aluminium industry. In Comalco Ltd. Kaiser Aluminium and Chemical Corp. has 45 per cent equity, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd has 45 per cent equity and the balance is owned mainly by Australian and New Zealand shareholders. Alcoa of Australia Ltd has a great deal of overseas control. In Nabalco Pty Ltd. Swiss Aluminium Australia Pty Ltd has 70 per cent equity and Gove Alumina Ltd has 30 per cent interest. I understand that originally Nabalco was to have only a certain percentage of overseas control, but because money for the project could not be raised in Australia, the percentage of overseas control was allowed to rise. If we had a progressive government, a government that was concerned about maintaining Australian ownership, it certainly would have taken up the balance of the equity in Nabalco. The same comment can be made about Queensland Alumina Ltd and Alcan Australia Ltd. If we look through the statement which the 
Minister presented we find that a great number of overseas owned companies have a big say in our nickel production. 
The same comment can be made about black coal, not so much in relation to the New South Wales fields but in relation lo the Queensland fields. There has been exploitation of our coal fields by overseas companies, and it has been exploitation in its real sense. Companies are taking coal from Queensland at a price which I understand is well below the price which purchasers, mainly from Japan, have to pay for similar types of coal in the United States and in other countries. The same comment can be made about the petroleum industry. If we look through the list of companies engaged in our petroleum industry we find that they are mixed up with well known overseas companies. The only one which did not get a mention was Mogul Ltd from the television show 'The Troubleshooters'. The same can be said of our refining industry. The only wholly Australian owned refinery is Ampol Refineries Ltd. Again, the others have strong overseas ties. If we examine the investment in our mineral resources we find the same sort of thing. This is a result of Government policies. I hope that the next Labor government will take steps to reverse this and to see that some Australian  control is  regained so that Australian resources are used for Australia's benefit. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I should like to refer to another matter which I have raised on a number of occasions, namely, the Lock-Kimba pipeline. My reference to this particular project has not been political. Following the offer by the Prime Minister in 1969 of $100m to assist in Australian water resources programmes the South Australian Government - then a Liberal Government - in January 1970 applied for assistance to complete the LockKimba pipeline. It serves a pretty dry area which has very little surface water. This is an area that could be developed far more than it is if surface water could be mid available. 
The Hall South Australian Liberal Government applied in 1970 for assistance lo complete this project. In the intervening period between the time of the application and the time a decision was made I know that many approaches were made to the Commonwealth Government seeking a decision. By the time the decision was made South Australia had a Labor government and it could not get an answer. It took 19 months, I think, from January 1970 until September last year for an answer to be given. That answer rejected the South Australian Government's application for assistance for reasons which were more or less related to the difficulties in the sheep and wool industries, and the Commonwealth Government said that it was not practical to put money into a project when the products of the area were already in trouble. For these reasons the Federal Government rejected South Australia's application for assistance. 
After approaches had been made to the Federal Government it agreed to reconsider the application in the light of what had been put forward to show how diversification had taken place from the time of the application until the time that the Government rejected it. In May this year the South Australian Government carried out a complete and comprehensive survey of the area. It examined what had taken place and the potentialities. This information was submitted to the Commonwealth Government in May  -  5 months ago. In view of the information the Commonwealth Government had prior to May, with the new information from the South Australian Government, I think it is about time for a decision to be announced. 
The South Australian Government is playing its part. In the last State Budget it appropriated $675,000 to keep this project moving. But unless South Australia receives assistance from the Federal Government it will be a number of years before the project can be completed. I certainly hope that the Minister and his Department have examined the latest application by the South Australian Government and that a decision will be available shortly. It is obvious that the Lock-Kimba pipeline is becoming a political football. It has been kicked around by a number of Liberal politicians in my own area who have tried to place, the blame for the delay on the South Australian Government. In fact, one Liberal senator criticised the South Australian Government for delays in the submission of its application. Little did he know that 6 weeks previously the South Australian Government had presented an application and submissions to the Commonwealth Government. 
I am beginning to feel that whatever decision is given on this subject, it will be a political decision. If South Australia is to receive assistance for the Lock-Kimba pipeline we will probably get a decision before the election. If assistance is not given before the election a decision will not be made at all. This is not a political matter. It is a matter on which both sides of the political spectrum in the State and to some extent in the Federal sphere have been prepared to cooperate to try to get something for this area of South Australia. I hope that the Minister will see his way clear to announce a decision on this matter shortly. 
-I do not want to take up too much of the Committee's time but 1 should like to say a few words about television in remote areas. As honourable members may know, my electorate covers more than 50 per cent of the total area of South Australia so I am naturally concerned about remote areas. Probably the area most harshly treated with respect to television at the moment is Eyre Peninsula which comprises approximately 50,000 square miles. The eastern part of the Peninsula is served by existing television services, but in the western part there are no services whatsoever at present. A couple of years ago a public announcement was made- I do not blame the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  for this - that a powerful station would be established in the western part of Eyre Peninsula to service quite a wide area. This statement was incorrect. I checked with the Postmaster-General's Department and it said that it would only provide small stations at Ceduna, which is approximately 280 miles west of Port Lincoln and at Woomera. The small station at Ceduna will give coverage possibly only for about 12 to 15 miles if the people are lucky. A vast area will remain unserviced even when the proposed station is established and many constituents will have no television reception at all. No television stations are planned to cover that particular area, but I certainly hope that in the next phase of planning the Postmaster-General's Department will give these areas some consideration so that the local people will get a television service. Many of them have bought television sets in the hope of being able to receive programmes. Because they have the receivers they have to pay the licence fee and so forth, but they get absolutely nothing in return. 
I am of the opinion that whilst colour television may be very desirable we are possibly getting our priorities wrong. Colour television is very expensive from a capital point of view and before we go too deeply into the matter of colour television we should look at the question of providing a reasonable service to the more remote areas of Australia. In a lot of cases people in these areas are penalising themselves by living in such areas. The Leigh Creek coal fields area, which is not in my electorate but in the electorate of Wakefield, has a population of slightly more than 1,000. This area is completely remote. These people get no television reception, but surely they are entitled to something. It has been suggested by a couple of previous speakers that with technological advances these particular areas could be covered in the near future and the people could secure a reasonable television reception. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  referred to the delay in rural telephone connections. I must virtually back up what he said. Following the announcement of the new policy of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, under which the Department provides 15 miles of line, there was a flood of applications for telephone connections. However, the facilities of the Department were not sufficiently advanced to be able to give people the benefit of what was then proposed. I have checked with the local engineers in my area and they have told me that the best they can do is to effect about 35 rural telephone connections a year on Eyre Peninsula. I have made inquiries for various people and in some instances they have been told that they may have to wait until 1974 or possibly 1975 to be provided with this facility. This is not very satisfactory to the people who have lodged applications. I certainly hope that the Postmaster-General's Department will make a greater effort to speed up these connections. 
In the rural areas there is also a need for more automatic telephone exchanges. Most of the members who represent wide country areas receive complaints about the present service. Because only a limited number of subscribers are connected to an exchange, the service is restricted in hours. This is the cause of much discontent. I hope that the Postmaster-General's Depart ment can bring about an increase in the number of automatic telephone exchanges so that people in the more remote areas can have a 24-hour automatic service. That is all I have to say on these estimates but I hope that some notice is taken of what I have said. 
As one of the little people and the representative of the electorate of Grey I hope that we can provide the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  with possibly SOO miles of railway line.  I  hope that the Government agrees to go ahead with work on the Stuart Highway because the people in my electorate would be happy to provide land for a decent roadway. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles 
Jones) but I do not wish to speak on it at this point The main thing I should like to refer to is the Australian shipbuilding industry. It can be said that for some time the Australian shipbuilding industry has been in some confusion. The Tariff Board made a report to the Government on the shipbuilding industry. The Government sat on the report for some time. The report, as we all know, was released about the end of last May. Since then the Government has examined the report. It did not accept it fully and made some alterations. I think that it has possibly only added to the confusion that exists among shipbuilders and everybody connected with the shipbuilding industry in Australia. 
In the Minister's original statement he said that a licence would be freely given to import ships to Australia provided they were tied up with the landed costs or the cost of building them overseas and sailing them to Australia. The Minister recast his statement on that point and withheld the 'freely given' term in respect to the imports. The industry certainly does not know where it is going at the present time. This is indicated by what has been said by many people connected with the shipbuilding industry. Perhaps one point that came out of the Tariff Board report - I think this has been accepted by the Government - is that we no longer have the recognised yards. This has added to the doubts that exist among the shipbuilders. For example, the contract for the construction of an oil rig was given to Transfield, a firm which has had no experience in shipbuilding in Australia. Construction of (his type has been undertaken successfully in Australia at Whyalla. I refer to the 'Ocean Digger'. Perhaps the Minister can inform me whether the oil rig to be built by the Transfield organisation will be subject to subsidy. 
I have said that the industry is still confused and does not know where it is going. This is indicated by a number of public statements that have been made recently by people connected with the shipbuilding industry. In last Thursday's Adelaide Advertiser' was the report of an announcement by  Mr Dalziel,  the general manager of the Whyalla shipyards. It was stated that the proposed SI 2m to $15m expansion plan for the Whyalla shipyard has been temporarily shelved.  Mr Dalziel  stated that this was because uncertainty in the future shipbuilding market made it difficult to justify such an expenditure. He went on further to say that the expansion, known to include improvements to the existing harbour, would have enabled the shipyard to build ships in the 100,000 ton class - bigger than anything yet built in Australia. When the Minister attended the launching of the 'Clutha Capricornia', which was 85,000 tons, he made the statement that he hoped that we soon would be able to build ships of 100,000 tons. This statement certainly put back the Whyalla shipyard. It is possible to build ships of that size because we know at the present time that the larger a ship is the more economical it is. 
The Whyalla shipyard is an old shipyard in one sense. It is 32 years old. Its order books are pretty thin at the present time. In fact, it has tendered for a contract for a 4,000 ton unit load carrier and a 15,000 ton zinc concentrate carrier which would help relieve the situation. Apart from that the future seems a little bleak. A ship construction firm in Adelaide in South Australia is facing the same situation. In the Sunday Mail' of last Sunday there is an article headed 'Sack Threat to Ship Men'. The article states that the general manager of the company said that the shipyard reeded a new order very quickly to avoid having to dismiss workmen.  His  comment followed a report that a proposed $12m expansion to the Whyalla shipyard has been temporarily shelved. The Whyalla shipyard has no new orders after 1974. The articles goes on to list the orders this shipyard has received. They involve 2 ships, one to be completed next January. After the shipyard has completed this work :t will have no further work. So we see the situation in relation to 2 shipyards, one employing approximately 1,700 men and the other one employing approximately 850 men. Certainly the future does look a bit bleak for these 2 shipyards. 
This situation applies not only to the South Australian shipyards. I think the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  has made mention of Evans Deakin. It is interesting to read the comments of  Dr Hughes  from Evans Deakin. On 22nd 
August he attacked the Government for its dismal record in encouraging cargoes to be carried in Australian ships and said Australia was at the bottom of a list of 36 countries engaged in sea transport. He said that this situation would be aggravated further unless a subsidy is paid on Australian made ships engaged in overseas trade, a proposition rejected by the Government although supported by the Tariff Board. This attack came from the shipbuilders themselves. We find another point of view from the unions. The industrial officer of the Merchant Service Guild, Captain Nicholls, following an appearance before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, said Australia was exporting crude oil from its own oil fields while it had its own refineries and importing refined products, which meant that Australian tankers were being laid up. He said that this amounted to an attempt by overseas companies to put Australian ships off the coastal trade. Australian shipping companies should do something to look after their own interests. He said that the Merchant Service Guild would send a telegram to the Minister protesting at the inroads made by foreign companies. I think that statement would tie in completely with the opposition we heard from the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  earlier. 
In yesterday's Adelaide 'News' appears an article in which it is stated that 2 Australian tankers are being tied up. It states that 2 R. W. Miller tankers which lost their contracts to carry Australian oil are up for sale. So we find that in that situation 2 Australian owned tankers will be tied up with the consequent dismissal of crews and so forth. As everybody knows, quite a number of Australian manned ships are laid up around the coast with the resultant unemployment of our seamen. Perhaps one point that does cause concern to everybody connected with the shipbuilding industry is the fact that a feasibility study was done on the Westernport project which involved the building of a new shipping complex- dry docks and so forth. Of course, this would only affect the existing yards and, in my opinion, certainly would not be in the best interests of Australia or of the yards. If we look at the shipbuilding yard in which I have an interest - Whyalla -  vrc  find a shipbuilding industry which to a great extent employs excellent labour which has been brought from Great Britain over the last 2 years. They are people who have set up their homes in a decentralised area 250 miles from Adelaide. I do not think they should be placed in the position where they do not know what their future is. I know that my time has just about run out. 
I hope that my remarks show more sense than those of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. We hope that the Australian people, when they look at the policy of the Australian Labor Party, will realise that we want to ensure that we have our own ships, we put our own ships on the overseas trade, that we man them with Australian seamen and that we see that they are carrying a fair percentage of our own trade. We do not want the present situation where we are completely at the mercy of overseas shipping lines. I think less than 2 per cent of our overseas trade is carried by Australian ships. I am sure that the people of Australia will realise this and when we have a Labor government we will have a comprehensive policy that looks into the future of our Australian shipbuilding industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth instrumentalities have utilised the facilities of the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories to initiate and advise on programmes to reduce hazardous noise levels in Commonwealth establishments. 
Have Commonwealth Railways sought the assistance of the laboratories in initiating programmes to reduce noise levels in workshops and other areas where noise levels may be a health hazard. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
On  what  date was an Area Manager appointed for the area of South Australia  now  administered  from  Whyalla. 
When will  a  decision  be  made on the  location  of the headquarters  of the area management  to cover  this area. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the committee which he and the South Australian Minister for Transport set up to examine details  of  the standard rail link with Adelaide finalised its examinations; if so, when will the report be available. 
The matter I would like to raise affects my electorate quite considerably and also affects a Commonwealth instrumentality - the Commonwealth Railways. Last April the Commonwealth Railways was to call tenders for 200,000 concrete sleepers and at the same time to call tenders for 200,000 timber sleepers which were to be used on maintenance work on the Trans-Australian Railway. Following the calling of these tenders, the Bureau of Transport Economics carried out a survey to ascertain which was the most efficient and most economic of the 3 types of sleepers available - concrete sleepers, untreated timber sleepers and treated timber sleepers. The Bureau of Transport Economics has done an evaluation on 3 railway lines - the proposed Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway, the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railway and the Trans-Australia railway. I have a copy of the Bureau's report, which is a pretty comprehensive document and contains certain recommendations. It states: 
Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway: the primary alternatives are 9 inches  x  6 inches x 8 feet 3 inches and 10 inches x 5 inches x 8 feet 6 inches jarrah sleepers, both treated and untreated, and concrete sleepers. 
The concrete sleeper is the least cost alternative. 
For the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railway, which is the line joining the standard gauge to Adelaide, the Bureau recommended red gum sleepers. For the Trans-Australia railway a tender for 400,000 sleepers was called; that is, 200,000 concrete and 200,000 timber sleepers. The Bureau of Transport Economics recommended concrete sleepers. In the evaluation of the whole project the Bureau had to consider certain social effects. When the Commonwealth Railways opened a new railway line from Whyalla to Port Augusta quite recently the Minister and various other officials spoke of the progress in railway construction by the use of all-welded track coupled with concrete sleepers. I understand that the concrete sleepers that the Commonwealth Railays wanted were to be used between Port Augusta and Port Pirie. The Commonwealth Railways would have then gone from Whyalla right through to Port Pirie on timber sleepers and a welded track. The 200.000  timber sleepers were to be  used west of Port Augusta for the replacement of worn out sleepers and so forth. But this was not to be. Although the Bureau of Transport Economics recommended concrete sleepers for the Trans-Australia line, last Sunday the Minister delivered a statement in which he apparently ignored the advice of the Bureau. The statement reads: 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, said today that Commonwealth Railways would continue to use timber sleepers in maintenance work on the Trans-Australia railway. 
I feel that by making this decision the Minister has gone completely against the advice of the Bureau of Transport Economics and prominent railway engineers. In fact, he has taken a backward step for one particular reason - purely for political purposes. In Western Australia there is some unemployment in the timber growing areas but there is also some unemployment in the area north of Spencer Gulf in South Australia where it is quite likely that concrete sleepers would have been manufactured. What would have been the obvious decision for the Minister, the Government or the Cabinet to make? It would have been to stick to the Commonealth Railways' original desire for 200,000 concrete sleepers and 200,000 timber sleepers. Possibly this would have had the effect of alleviating a bad unemployment position in the timber areas of Western Australia and would have certainly given a fillip to the northern areas of Spencer Gulf in South Australia where unemployment is rife. 1 appreciate that there is unemployment in the timber areas in Western Australia. I shall cite the unemployment figures for the Port Pirie area, where it was quite likely that the concrete sleepers would have been manufactured. For the 6 months to September the total unemployment in Port Pirie was 428, 669, 1,094, 743, 622 and 754 respectively. Of the September figure 559 were males and 195 were females. I think the figures are worse when the number of unfilled vacancies in this area is considered. The unfilled vacancies were 26 for males and 86 for females. It is quite likely that the concrete sleepers would have been made in this area. All this was ignored completely and a political decision was given purely to try to assist the Government to hold Country Party seats in Western Australia. It is quite interesting to read the comments of 2 newspapers, the Adelaide 'Advertiser' and yesterday's 'Australian'. The 'Australian' editorial stated: 
If the Federal Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Nixon,  had decided to order timber instead of concrete sleepers for the Transcontinental rail line on the ground of economy his decision would have been understandable, if regrettable. 
That he has opted for timber instead of concrete at the cost of an extra $2. 8m for what appears to be largely political reasons is both incredible and lamentable. 
To say that the choice had been made 'taking into account local employment and social effects' is one way of saying that the decision will help the Country Parly's election prospects in marginal timber-producting electorates such as Forrest, in Western Australia. 
The Adelaide 'Advertiser' stated: 
The arguments in favour of concrete- 
Referring to concrete sleepers -  are straightforward enough. As the Bureau of Transport Economics pointed out in its special report on the subject, concrete would have been the best choice for the Trans-Australia Railway. It has a longer life expectancy than jarrah, the timber alternative, and is also bushfire-proof and better suited to holding fastenings. But the deciding factor is cost. According to the BTE figures, the use of concrete sleepers would have saved the taxpayer almost $3m. Yet the Government has opted for jarrah.  1 think there is no question at all on reasoning and logic that the Government should have gone for the concrete sleepers, at least in the areas where it was completely replacing sleepers - probably between Port Augusta and Port Pirie - and carried out what it originally intended with 200,000 timber sleepers, then progressively replacing them on the east-west line. It will be many years before they are done away with in that area. The Government did not decide to do this but for cynical reasons decided to use timber sleepers from Western Australia and to ignore completely the industrial areas in South Australia which are suffering a bad bout of unemployment. The Government could have given those areas a shot in the arm by offering them 200,000 concrete sleepers to manufacture. I conclude by saying that the Government should be soundly condemned for what is no more than a cynical political decision. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to an answer given by the Minister for Shipping' and Transport last week in which he blamed the South Australian Government for .the delay in the finalisation of the agreement for the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. Did the South Australian Premier write to the Prime Minister on 27th September 1972 in connection with the Alice Springs-Tarcoola railway, agreeing to a grant of Crown land for the railway without reservations concerning mineral rights and requesting the Commonwealth to keep the existing line from Port Augusta to Marree open whilst necessary for the general welfare of the State of South Australia, subject to arbitration if a dispute arose as to economic viability? Is it true that South Australia raised no objection to the removal of certain sections of the Northern Territory Acceptance Act 1910-1952 provided that South Australia was not disadvantaged by freight rates? Is it a fact that no reply has been received from the Commonwealth? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Have the further submissions of the South Australian Government to the Commonwealth for assistance in financing the Lock-Kimba Pipeline on Eyre Peninsula been examined by his Department; if so, when is it anticipated that (he South Australian Government will be informed of Ihe decision. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice. 
As the Commonwealth Government has finalised plans for the purchase of Everard Park in South Australia for Aboriginal purposes, what plans nave been formulated to develop this property lor the benefit of the Aboriginal people in the area. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in the plans to establish a health hostel for Aboriginal women at Port Augusta in conjunction with the South Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
As Commonwealth Railways operations resulted in a loss of $2,332,598 during 1971-72, will he state whether the operations of the Commonwealth Railways provision stores operated at a profit or loss during the same year, if so, what was the profit or loss. 

 - Mr Speaker, I join in the condolences offered by the 4 previous speakers. 1 would like in particular to join in the condolences offered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other honourable members concerning the late  Mr Jack  Mortimer who he'd t'ie seat of Grey for a period covering 2 parliaments. During the period that he held the seat of Grey he was untiring in his efforts to cover that vast electorate. Although it is still a large electorate, in those days it was even larger by perhaps 30,000 or 40,000 square miles. In the work that he did in covering that large electorate he gained many friends and I think was respected by all. In regard to my own personal association with Jack Mortimer as a trade union official and as an official of a sub-branch of the Australian Labor Party, during the period that he was the member for Grey on a number of occasions I raised matters with him and I must say that he treated me with the greatest courtesy. He did his utmost to see that the matters we raised were finalised to eur satisfaction. In conclusion I woud like to express on behalf of the people of Grey condolences to  Mrs Jack  Mortimer and her family for the loss of her husband and their father. 
Is the Minister for Labour aware of any award or determination covering employees of the Commonwealth that makes financial membership of an industrial organisation a condition for the employee to receive payments for annual leave, public holidays and sick leave? Can the Minister state whether any such conditions have applied during the full term of the previous Liberal-Country Party government - a period of some 23 years? 
It would appear from what the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has just said that he feels that quite a high percentage of our young people do not want to work and that all that this increase in unemployment benefits will do is encourage people not to seek jobs but to become dirty, unwashed layabouts with long hair. I think he shows a lack of faith in our young .people because I am positive that a high percentage of them want jobs and do not want to be in a position of needing unemployment benefits with all the degrading aspects associated with them. He comes from a rural area. I come from what I would call not a rural area but a non-metropolitan area. It is an area where jobs are limited for a certain class of people. It is an area in which there is a limited number of apprenticeships. It has quite a high proportion of Aborigines who because of their background find difficulty in obtaining jobs. Probably a very high proportion of them have to live on some assistance from the Government in the form of unemployment benefits. The only chance they have of keeping their families under any sort of decent circumstances is for us to make sure that they get reasonable assistance from the Government. 
They have the responsibility of sending their children to school as well as the responsibility of seeing that their children are reasonably well dressed. But without jobs and without unemployment benefits things would be very grim for them indeed. Those who have jobs find that the whole family makes a valiant effort to try to make their conditions a lot better. The honourable member for Murray spoke about people not wanting jobs but my understanding of the way the Department of Labour works is that if a person does not have a work record he does not get unemployment benefits. If a person cannot produce proof that he has applied for a job recently or worked recently he does, not necessarily get unemployment benefits. I understand that that is the position - just or unjust, and I have my reservations about it - if a person cannot produce some sort of record to show that he has worked. 
Social services has been a pretty hot issue over the last few years. In 1969 we saw the question of social services and the treatment of pensioners becoming a very hot political issue. It was one of the main issues which brought about the reduced support for the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. From 1969 onwards we saw gallup polls showing an erosion of support for that Government and I am sure that this question was one of the reasons for that erosion of support. It appears that the Liberal-Country Party Government used social services mainly at times when pressure was put on it, such as when people showed that unless the Government was prepared to do something they would vote it out of office. That situation applied over the last 12 months and in the last Budget we saw some improvements in social services and the treatment of age and other pensioners. I think it is a fact that this would not have happened had it not been for the pressure put on the previous Government by the people to change completely all that it had said in the past. 
It had said since about 1953 that it was impossible to do away with the means test, notwithstanding that the Liberal and Country Parties, were elected in 1949 on their promise to abolish the means test, but it found in 1972 that it was possible to abolish it and it did subsequently give some relief to the people who were being penalised by that means test. At this point it cannot be argued that the previous Government did not realise that the Labor Party's policy, which was part of the 1969 policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  to do away with the means test within a period of 2 Parliaments was something which the people wanted and something which the people considered they were justly entitled to. The Liberal-Country Party Government saw that if it was to have a chance of winning the 1972 elections it would have to do something about the abolition of the means test. So what happened? It did introduce some alleviation in the means test and this was something which everybody on this side of the House approved. But it was something which we realised the then Government had taken from our policy. The means test was something which the then 
Government had decided to do away with completely. The previous Government's attitude followed the same line that we had already taken, that is, that the means test would be abolished within 6 years. As I said earlier, the whole question of the treatment of social service pensioners and the matter of unemployment benefits have always been political footballs but at last we have a very responsible and conscientious Minister who has shown by his actions to date as Minister for Social Security that he has a genuine concern for the less fortunate in our society. Every action he has taken since being appointed Minister for Social Security has been towards relieving poverty and want within our society. 
This Bill is indicative of his approach and the approach of the Labor Party to the whole question of social services. The Bill does not provide a great deal and we know that the increases which are included in it will certainly not solve all the problems that the less fortunate in our society face, but at least it does go part of the way. As a result of the promises of action to follow this step, promises such as increasing the age pension twice yearly until it reaches 25 per cent of the average wage, we will achieve a position where our people upon retirement are not forced to accept a much lower standard of living than they had been used to. Other matters such as national superannuation were also contained in Labor's election promises but at least the step taken by this Bill is a start. I am sure that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will be untiring in his efforts to make these promised changes and do away with the poverty that exists in our society. 
Over the last 3 years we have seen developed by the South Australian Labor Government a completely different attitude to the question of the needy in Australia. The South Australian Government, like the present Federal Labor Government, has shown a very sympathetic attitude to the less fortunate in society. It has announced some beneficial proposals such as rebates on rates which it will introduce if it is re-elected, as I have no doubt it will be. 
The increases in pension rates that are to be granted under the legislation before us show how far this Government is going in its effort to eliminate poverty. The standard rate of age pension will be increased by $1.50 a week to $21.50. This is the first step in the Government's plan to bring pensions up to a reasonable level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. This discrimination that exists at present between A and B class widows will be eliminated. The B class widow will not only receive the general increase of $1.50 a week but also will be brought to the level of the A class widow. This will mean a total increase of $4.25 a week. At present the difference between the pensions is $2.75 per week. 1 do not want to take up my full time. I know that honourable members on this side of the House want to see this Bill passed through the House. I understand that this is the attitude, too, of members of the Opposition. I conclude by once again congratulating the Minister for Social Security on the Bill which he has introduced. This is the first step by the present Government in a genuine attempt to do away with poverty. The Minister has taken this matter so much to heart that he will in future legislation take further steps to eliminate the poverty that does exist. Whilst this Bill is a big improvement, we know that it is not the end. With the sympathetic Minister that we have it will not be very long, as Was said the other day, before Australia has the best social service system in the world. 
I do not think I will bother wasting the limited time that I have in this debate by answering some of the things which the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has just said. He seems to take the attitude that the people on this side of the House have never seen an Aboriginal before, that we all live deep in the heart of the cities and we see only those people who drift to the cities. This, of course, is not so. 1 do not intend to waste any more of my time on what he had to say. 
I rise to support this Bill which was introduced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  I would like to congratulate him on his efforts and his concern for the Aboriginal people of Australia since his appointment. I would also take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  on the removal the other day of the discriminatory sections dealing with Aboriginals that existed in the Immigration Act. 1 am of the opinion that that measure and the Bill before the House confirm that the newly elected Government has a conscientious concern for the Aboriginal people and that it fully and unequivocally accepts the responsibility of giving the fullest opportunities to these people who have for so long been discriminated against. I also take this opportunity to recognise the contribution made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Although we on this side of the House do not aften agree wilh him I think that those of us who are interested in Aboriginal affairs have recognised that he has shown a concern for Aborigines for some time. 
We as a nation cannot look back with any pride on our past attitudes to Aboriginals. At the very best all that could be said is that in some circumstances we adopted paternalistic attitudes. We were prepared to allow the growth of fringe settlements in many of our country towns. We were prepared to close our eyes to the many problems created by those settlements, such as the lack of any semblance of decent housing conditions. There was a complete disregard for the health problems created by such conditions and we failed to meet the educational needs of the children or provide employment opportunities for the adults. That has been our record in the past. One can say, however, that over the last seven or eight years we have been able to see some improvement in the situation and while some effort has been made to make up for past failures the efforts taken were not enough and left much to be desired. We still see many areas where our efforts have only scratched the surface of what needs to be done to rectify all the injustices, the shocking health problems that exist in some areas, the lack of decent housing, the provision of full educational opportunities for the children and also, of course, employment opportunities. 
As a member for the South Australian electorate with the greatest Aboriginal population, I hope that I have endeavoured to play my part in seeking to have the general wellbeing of these people improved and whilst realising that all the injustices, inequalities and so on cannot be removed overnight with a wave of a wand. I think it can be said that the most conscientious effort made by any of our State governments was made by the Dunstan Government of South Australia but as the expenditure by the State Governments has in some way been controlled by the money allocated by the Commonwealth Government, I would hope that this Bill will allow the South Australian Government to carry on the work that has been started and. better still, that the Commonwealth itself takes over the full responsibility in doing away with the many problems associated with these people. 
One of the progressive moves made in South Australia was the establishment of the Aboriginal Lands Trust which has the responsibility of acquiring land for aboriginal purposes. Of course the members of that Trust are Aboriginals. The establishment of that Trust does not completely solve the problems but at least in that State a start has been made. Althought I have mentioned the great injustices of the past I do recognise that the previous Government did make a number of moves to improve the lot of the Aboriginal people but we on this side always felt that it did not do enough. The constitutional right of the Commonwealth to legislate for the Aboriginal people was established in 1967 in a referendum in which the people of Australia voted overwhelmingly in favour of Commonwealth rights in this field. 
The previous Government did set up the Office of Aboriginal Affairs hut it was never given the status of a full Ministry. The previous Government tacked it on to other Ministries, first the Prime Minister's Department and later, in a reshuffle, it was a part of the Ministry dealing with arts and the environment. We of the Labor Party have for  a  number of years bad included in our policy provision for the setting up of a separate Ministry. We were strongly of the opinion there was a necessity for a separate Minister, with a full department to back him up in carrying out his duties. In line with this policy, the new Government did set up the separate Ministry and the appointment of the Minister was a recognition of the interest and concern that he has shown over many years in the interests of the Aboriginal people.  His  actions since his appointment have shown that he has undertaken the tasks confronting his area of responsibility in a manner that does him great credit. He has undertaken a number of journeys to those areas where the problems have been greatest to enable himself to fully understand what his tasks are going to be. He has made a great start in his decisions and perhaps mention can be made of some of these decisions. One such decision is embodied in the Bill. On the question of Aboriginal land rights he has recognised the need for a more rational and sympathetic approach to this question. He has appointed  Mr Justice  Woodward Q.C. as an Aboriginal land rights commissioner to make a report on the best means of achieving the Government's aims in this area, and, in doing so, the Government is only falling into line with what has been done in a number of other countries which have had to face the injustices that have been done to their indigenous people. It is a move in contrast to the activities of the previous Government. 
It is the intention to ensure that in all matters connected with these questions, there will he the fullest consultation with the people involved. This has not been the case completely in the past, where decisions have often been made without regard to what the people themselves felt that they wanted. The Government has taken steps to provide additional finance in an effort to overcome the lag in housing. Whilst the previous Government did make finance available for Aboriginal housing, our greatest criticism has been that the amount was absolutely inadequate and did not overcome the shortage that was growing year by year. This Bill certainly recognises this grave problem and we have pledged to take positive steps in an endeavour to overcome this lag. In my own State of South Australia the amount to be allocated for housing under this Bill is being increased by 100 per cent. Efforts are being made to provide finance so that special projects can be carried out in areas where no employment opportunities existed before. This has special relevance to my particular area and should give assistance to the North West Aboriginal Reserve in South Australia. Work opportunities in this area have been very scarce. I know from personal experience on a visit to the area a few months ago that some work had been provided under the rural unemployment scheme, but the amount of work being provided is likely to be reduced due to shortage of finance. I hope that the extra grant to South Australia will provide an opportunity for continuity of work in these areas. The Government also hopes to provide work of such a nature as to provide job training and responsibility, which should make a positive approach in this sphere as the finance allocated for this special project work has been directed to the areas where the problem of Aboriginal employment is most acute. 
On the important question of Aboriginal health, the Government has accepted the responsibility of leaving no stone unturned to get to grips with this grave problem. The urgency is emphasised when we see the figures for infant mortality. It is the intention of the Government to make a major effort in this area not only to reduce greatly the shocking infant mortality rates but also to attack many of the chronic diseases that affect many of the Aboriginal people. (Quorum formed). I da not think the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  did the honourable members on his side a great favour by calling that quorum. In my own area covering the Northwest Aboriginal Reserve, the South Australian Government has recently taken steps to reorganise health services. We certainly hope that, coupled with the benefits available from this Bill, great inroads can be made into the overall health problem. 
The Bill increases the amount available to carry out these projects by an extra $7m over the allocation in the last Budget. Whilst the Minister realises, as I think we all realise, that all the problems in this field will not be solved overnight by the extra money provided, a positive contribution has been made. The extra $7m has been allocated as follows: Housing $2,484,000; health S 1,440,000; education $510,000; special work projects $2,555,000; and regional projects $511,000. This figure represents a 50 per cent increase in finance made available in this area. Although this increase will not completely change the position to what it should be, it shows that the Government is making every endeavour to give extra effect to the decision of the Australian people in 1967 in the referendum to give the Commonwealth the right to legislate on matters affecting the Aboriginal people. 
I would like to refer again to the matter of housing. Many Aboriginals are still living in their traditional ways of life in remote areas. This type of living may not have been the cause of health problems when the people were completely nomadic and moved from hunting ground to hunting ground, but this traditional way of life has now been drastically altered. The people in the more remote areas are now grouped around settlements on reserves and missions, and as a result they have lost some of their mobility. In this situation I believe that the traditional type of dwelling made of spinifex in itself creates a health hazard. Many of the people have not liked to move into the normal European type house, so there is a great need for a transitional type of house that allows these people to maintain their traditional ways but also provides accommodation that greatly reduces any health hazard. (Quorum formed). There have been experiments in prototypes of this type of housing, one of which was carried out by the previous Government at the Finke in the Northern Territory. While 1 have not personally seen these buildings I have been shown photographs. They were designed to allow for sleeping under the stars and also for outside cooking of such things as kangaroos, lt would be interesting to know whether these types of dwellings have been a success and whether they have been accepted by the people. 
At the Ernabella Presbyterian mission in South Australia one enterprising Aborigine was making dwellings using 6 inch or 8 inch gauge wire mesh as the frame. Various types of material were used to cover the frame which, from memory, measured 12 feet to 14 feet in diameter. I think the amount he was charging his fellow Aborigines was about $18 a frame. At the same place there is also si housing society operating which erects more of a European type house, and it has been able to complete several of these with the assistance of the mission staff. On this trip I was accompanied by the honourable member for 
Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who was then the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. At Amata further westward we saw 3 other types of the transitional types of dwelling made by the Aboriginals themselves. The local Aboriginal council was most enthusiastic in its efforts to get us to have a look at these dwellings. Obviously they were quite proud of them. One was a smaller version of the Nissen hut, another was a shed about 15 feet square, and the third was again about the same size but it had another innovation in that the roof was hinged in the centre which allowed the ends of the roof to be raised to allow air to flow through. All had wooden floors. They were certainly proud of their efforts and they Impressed the 3 of us as being a very proud and dignified people not spoilt by some of the bad ways of the white people. 
I am sure that the Minister is fully aware of the needs in this area and will continue to see that efforts are made to provide transitional housing in the more remote areas in a manner suitable to the Aboriginal people. In the latter part of last year the previous Government took over Everard Park station in the Everard Ranges in the north of South Australia. I hope that this will be developed as an Aboriginal property. It is something that is unique. Groups of Aboriginal people were placed on this station. I certainly hope that the property will be developed to the full so that they can make the most of it. Also it is in an area where the people have strong traditional ties and where every hill has some sacred significance for them. I hope that we do not allow this area to be destroyed. 
In conclusion I would again congratulate the Minister for the drive and enthusiasm he has shown since his appointment to the Ministry, and also on the introduction of his first major Bill. We hope that before many years are out we will have been able to right the many wrongs, the injustices and the discriminations that the Aboriginal people have suffered in the past and that we can look forward to a future when there is no need for Bills to come before this House dealing specifically with matters affecting the Aboriginal people. 
I rise to support the Bill before the House which was introduced by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  The Minister in the opening remarks of his second reading speech correctly stated: 
Free elections are basic to a democratic society. But free elections by themselves are not enough - the results must reflect the will of the majority both in individual constituencies and throughout the nation.  (Quorum formed) The quote continues: 
If the electoral laws do not result in the Government desired by the majority - if they are manipulated to reflect the political interest of persons or parties - it would be a denial of the very essence of democracy . . . 
To give effect to these thoughts the Government has introduced this Bill in line with its more forward thinking attitude on electoral matters. We have already introduced legislation to give full voting rights to 18-year-olds. The Minister stated in his second reading speech that there would be a comprehensive review of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. He stated also that the question of providing additional representation to both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory would be the subject of legislation that he intended to introduce into this House at a later date. 
The plans of the new Labor Government are in line with the Party's attitude in the past in that it has been from this quarter that electoral reform has always come. We have led the fight against the established interests in our society to obtain some form of electoral justice. This has been the case not only in this country but also in every country that aims to live under a system people like to call democratic. Man for centuries has  desired to take a hand in the manner in which he has been governed. We as a Parliament have always taken many of our customs from the Parliament at Westminster and, whilst that institution is referred to as the mother of Parliaments, the stage that it has reached today did not come about without a continuing fight for fair representation and some form of electoral justice. We can refer to the struggle that took place in the United States of America to set up that country's constitution when lack of representation resulted in the American Revolution and the subsequent setting up of that country's own form of Government. We can look to the present troubles in Ireland, much of which has been caused by lack of representation and repression of the common people of that country in years gone by. France is another example where the fight for democracy has taken place. 
Whilst our own situation has been to a certain extent free from the violence of many other countries in their aspirations to seek fair and democratic representation for their people, our own past shows that the political struggles to establish our own form of democracy have been a continuing political confrontation with the Establishment and the forces of privilege, and unfortunately this political fight for fair and democratic representation has not been finally won. The present Bill, besides bringing about a redistribution of seats following the 1971 census - a move which the previous Government dodged - is a further step towards the Labor Party goal of one vote one value. Whilst we realise that there are problems in carrying out this goal in its entirety we believe that this legislation is a big step along the way. 
The Bill endeavours to alter the existing tolerance of 20 per cent in the numbers of electors in an electorate to a tolerance of 10 per cent. It also alters other factors. Any examination of the numbers of people eligible to vote in the various electorates as they stood at the election on 2nd December clearly indicates the great variations that exist. These figures certainly show a great difference in representation in this House. Perhaps we can look at some of these variations. In New South Wales, which at the time of the last election had an electoral quota of just over 57,000,  the  number of electors varied between 47,000 in the seat of Calare, 68,000 in Chifley, 44,000 in Darling and 71,000 in Mitchell. The difference between the largest and smallest elec torate in this State was 27,000 voters. In Victoria, which had an electoral quota of nearly 57,000 electors, the electorate of Diamond Valley was made up of 72,000 voters and Mallee was made up of 45,000 voters. The difference between the largest and smallest electorate in that State was 27,000 voters. Tn Queensland, which had an electoral quota of 57,000 electors we find that Bowman contained 68,000 electors and Maranoa 43,000. The difference between the smallest and largest electorate in that State was 24,520 voters. In my own State of South Australia, where the electoral quota also was 57,000, the electorate of Bonython was made up of 67,000 voters and the electorate of Wakefield contained 45,000. The difference in that State between the largest and smallest electorates was 21,800 electors. Western Australia varied from 64,000 voters in Canning to 50,000 in Forrest, a difference of approximately 14,000 voters. If we look at Tasmania, where of course the position is different because the population is lower, we find a difference of only 3,684 between the largest and smallest electorates. These figures indicate the differences in the size of electorates in the various States. 
This Bill will be a progressive step towards the goal of one vote one value. Whilst we realise that some tolerance is essential, this legislation certainly will help to break down the wide disparity that exists now between the various electorates in our Federal system and bring about a system that gives equal voting rights to every elector, irrespective of what he is, what he does or where he lives. As a member for one of the larger electorates, I can fully appreciate the difficulties of distance in these large electorates and the amount of travel involved in endeavouring to give some service to the people, but I feel that this situation does not justify the large disparity in numbers that exists at present, lt should not be used to reduce the value of electors' votes in other areas. The best way in which we can overcome this problem is not to reduce the numbers in those electorates to a ridiculous level, making the possibility of a gerrymander of seats very easy, but by the provision of greater facilities to members who represent the larger electorates to enable them to give their electors the service they should be able to expect. I understand that the Minister, fully realising the problems of these electorates, is having investigations made as to how these  members can be assisted. 1 am sure that he will come up with some worthwhile ideas in an endeavour to overcome these problems. 1 note that in the Press last week the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is reported as having said, in the course of comments he made on this Bill and the proposal to reduce the tolerance from the present 20 per cent to 10 per cent, that few overseas countries had as good a record as Australia in keeping electoral districts politically equal. Surely the Leader of the Opposition could not have been referring to the electoral system that exists in most of our States. With the exception of Queensland, every State has an upper House and in every one there is some grave anomaly in the matter of representation. 1 am of the opinion that under our present system of government grave doubts exist as to the efficiency or usefulness of upper Houses in the State electoral setup. In most cases they are leftovers from the political power of the landed squattocracy and the wealthy of the last century. In every case they can frustrate the democratic wishes of the people as reflected in the franchise that exists in the State lower Houses, despite the fact that there are inequalities in these themselves. 
If we look at the upper Houses that exist in the 5 States other than Queensland we find that in New South Wales the upper House may delay Appropriation Bills for only one month but not reject them; otherwise its powers are unlimited. In Victoria it may not initiate money Bills and can reject, not amend, any financial legislation. In South Australia it may not initiate financial legislation, but here again its powers are practically unlimited except only in that regard. In Western Australia the upper House may not initiate financial legislation. In Tasmania it may not amend annual supply Bills but can reject or delay them indefinitely. So in every one of the States we find that the power of the upper House is far beyond what it should be in a democratic society. In the upper House in South Australia, that is the Legislative Council, we have a clear example of the undemocratic procedure of upper Houses. It is elected on a restricted franchise, with the State divided into 5 electoral districts. These districts each elect 4 members, 2 being elected every 3 years. The franchise, as I mentioned before, is restricted, and as a result denies a considerable percentage of the people of South Australia their right to vote in Legis lative Council elections. A further hurdle to democratic government is the fact that the number of electors in the 5 districts varies from 106,000 in one district, that is Central District No. 1, which is an Adelaide seat, to 50,000- 
Can the Minister for Transport give any information on the progress of the negotiations now proceeding between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia on the construction of a new standard gauge railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs? Can he also restate the intention of the Commonwealth Government to proceed with this project at the earliest opportunity? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Government given any further consideration to the suggested alterations to the Superannuation Fund, as contained in the last actuarial investigation of that Fund, wherein it was suggested that the present unit purchase scheme be replaced by  a  scheme whereby a contributor would pay into the Fund a percentage of his wage or salary during his working life. 
Has consideration been given to the present surplus in the Fund and how this amount will bo used for the benefit of contributors. 
I support the Bill, which was introduced by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  lt represents a departure in the handling of industrial disputes in Australia and should meet with the approval of the people. Since the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was introduced in the early years of Federation industrial relations have been the subject of much argument and discussion throughout the nation. The Act has been altered on quite a number of occasions since its introduction. This measure certainly takes a new look at the whole question of industrial relations in Australia. It takes a completely new look at various areas of our industrial life. As the Minister for Labour stated in his second reading speech, the Bill examines the need of trade unions and employer organisations for amalgamation, trade union education and closer consultation between unions, employers and the Government. The Bill seeks greater social justice and harmony in our industrial relations and it will go a long way towards achieving those aims. The Minister also said in his second reading speech that the powers of the Federal Government will have to be expanded in the field of industrial legislation in line with the growth of nationalism. I consider that this is a natural course of events, but at this stage the Government does not intend to press that point. The Minister also referred to workers on the shop floor level, the need for worker participation, the role of shop stewards and shop committees and the concept of works councils. 
This Bill is also directed towards the removal of the penal provisions as they at present affect employee relations. These provisions have probably been the most vexed question in the whole of our industrial relations. They have had the dubious honour of creating more disputes than they have solved. On numerous occasions disputes of a minor nature were expanded into major disputes because the penal provisions were invoked. Many disputes which could have been solved by round table discussions held in a conciliatory atmosphere finished up in major confrontations because of the use of these powers. The operation of these provisions has proved to be a failure, as we are all aware. They have failed to such an extent that even the previous Government had to recognise that they had failed by altering the manner of their operation following the confrontation in 1969 with the tramways union. The ordinary trade unionist on the job would harden his attitude after seeing his union dragged before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
The previous Government and its predecessors have always taken the attitude that the conciliation and arbitration laws of this country could not operate unless penal provisions were included to back up the legislation. History has shown that the inclusion of penal provisions has not achieved the results that were claimed for them. This Bill takes a completely new course in removing the major sanction provisions from our industrial relations. In view of the failure of past penal provisions included in the Act, their removal will mean that we can enter into a new era in our industrial relations in which the threat of the operation of the penal provisions will no longer act as a spectre in the background of industrial discussions. 
Another important aim of the Bill relates to the amalgamation of unions. The honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  the previous Minister dealing with industrial matters, stated in his speech that honourable members on his side of the House do not oppose union amalgamation in general. However, their' actions in the past cast doubt whether that statement correctly reflects their attitude in this matter. (Quorum formed). Last year we saw efforts to stop the amalgamation of the metal unions, something the unions involved had been working towards for years. As a member of one of the amalgamated metal unions I have personal knowledge of the discussions to achieve amalgamation that took place over many years, not only between the officials of the unions involved but also right down to the level of the member on the shop floor. Those who voted in the ballot on the amalgamations were overwhelmingly in support of what was proposed, namely, the amalgamation of the  3  metal unions. But after many years of negotiation between the unions involved, legal moves were made to throw a spanner in the works - moves that were supported by the honourable members opposite and their allies in the Senate. Fortunately the legal moves failed and the amalgamation of those unions came about. 
At the present time a number of proposed amalgamations of unions are being discussed. The alterations proposed in this Bill will pave the way for those amalgamations should the unions still wish to amalgamate. When one considers that there are about 350 industrial organisations of employees throughout Australia and that some of those organisations have memberships that can be numbered in the hundreds, there is no doubt that there is certainly a need for a reduction in the number of unions. No doubt those who believe in the divide and rule principle will support a situation in which there is a large number of unions with small memberships. But if we are seriously to consider our industrial relations a strong case exists for reducing the number of unions covering workers throughout Australia. 
The Opposition is using the matter of union amalgamations as a big bogy in an effort to frighten the Australian people. But as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  mentioned in his speech, in other countries many fewer unions than there are in Australia cover work forces much larger than ours.  His  special reference, of course, was to West Germany where, I think he said, the number of industrial unions is 16. It would be interesting to compare the amount of time lost by Australia and West Germany in industrial disputes, and to compare the size of work forces in the 2 countries. I can remember the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  when he was Minister for Labour and National Service, stating in answer to a question that demarcation disputes represented 11 per cent of all industrial disputes in Australia. My own experience as a member of one of the amalgamated metal unions showed me the wastefulness of unions fighting unions over which has jurisdiction over a certain class of work. Most of these disputes finished up with hard feelings existing between the unions involved. The problem of demarcation disputes in the metal industry became a thing of the past following the amalgamation of those unions. I think that such amalgamations are to be supported for this fact alone. I should imagine that most employers would welcome the elimination of demarcation disputes. 
Mention was made also by the honourable member for Gellibrand of union research and the greater use of unions resources in setting up research centres etc. The existing combined research centre operating in Sydney was set up by a couple of unions of the amalgamated trade unions prior to their amalgamation and certainly is an example of what can be achieved when union resources are pooled for the benefit of the members of those unions. These kinds of activities can be brought about only by employee organisations amalgamating for the benefit of their members and in this way, greater use can be made of the resources that they have. This Bill will make it easier for these amalgamations to come about and it will be welcomed by all those interested in industrial relations in Australia. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition also mentioned the inclusion in the Bill of provisions to give greater rights of entry to union officials. Here again, if one takes an antiunion stand, some employers would see dangers in this, but the employer who is interested in maintaining good industrial relations would not raise any serious objection to such a provision. It also is important that in many matters facing a trade union official, investigations must take place while normal work is being carried out. For example, if it were felt by the employees that a certain operation was a safety hazard, would it be unreasonable to have the union official make an inspection or investigation on the job, while work was being performed? Refusal to allow right of entry on the job to a union official has often been the cause of a dispute. I know of a number of occasions when a union official has been refused entry and the employees, of their own choosing, have decided that if the official could not come and see them, they would go and see him and, as a result, they walked off the job. I feel that it is a provision that would not be opposed by responsible employers interested in maintaining good industrial relations with the employee organisations. It certainly is not the bogy that the Opposition is trying to make of it. 
The Minister for Labour in his second reading speech had quite a lot to say about industrial agreements. There is no doubt that the most effective manner of resolving industrial disputes is for the parties involved to sit down at the table and thrash out a settlement. It also is a fact that any settlement achieved in this manner is treated with a great deal more respect by all concerned than is a decision that is forced on the parties involved. The Minister went into some detail on the matter of industrial agreements. He referred to the Government's intentions to do everything possible to see that the terms and conditions of employees be regulated by freely negotiated agreements, and said that these agreements then would be certified by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. They would have the full force of an award and would be preferable to an award arbitrarily forced upon them. 
There are many other altered provisions covering the matter of industrial agreements. These reflect the different attitudes of the Government to the entire area of industrial relations and should, we hope, result in a greater confidence in our industrial relations by all concerned. We are quite confident that the operation of the new provisions will result in a new era in our industrial relations. Members of the Opposition have always been loud in their concern for the rights of the rank and file trade unionist, although whether they have been sincere in this is another matter. If they are concerned they will, no doubt, welcome the provisions in the Bill that safeguard the interests of the rank and file unionist. This is in line with the aims of the Australian Labor Party which has included in its platform provisions to ensure that unions in Australia are subject to the control of their members and allows the member the fullest participation in the affairs of his organisation. 
The provisions in this Bill give effect to that platform as they refer to the rights and safeguards of the individual member of a union. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act has been altered on many occasions since it became law in 1904. The alterations proposed in this Bill probably are the most farreaching, in that they are a departure from ideas on industrial procedures which have shown in the past that they have failed. The Bill deserves the support of this House. 
-1 rise to support this Bill. 1 am sure that it has the support of honourable members from both sides of the House because it provides some improvements in superannuation pensions to so many former employees of the Commonwealth Public Service who had contributed to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund for many years and who have now retired. The Bill gives effect to the recommendations of Professor Pollard which were contained in the report tabled by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  some weeks ago and which resulted from an examination by Professor Pollard of the means of updating the method of payment of pensions. Superannuitants have been unjustly treated in the past not only because they have been deprived of any social service payments as a result of their membership of the fund and by the operation of the means test but also because the value of their superannuation units remained static over many years. With the effect of eroding money values, these people were a forgotten race. They were falling fast behind in their battle to lead a decent existence despite the fact that in order to keep up their superannuation payments while employed they were depriving themselves of portion of their income to provide for their retirement. At the same time they were contributing to general taxation without getting some of tha benefits. The previous Government did give some recognition to the problems of eroding values of superannuation pensions. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking about the difficulties that were faced by contributors to the Superannuation Fund who retired some years ago on a pension with a constant value and who were the victims of the erosion of the value of that pension due to inflationary pressures. However the previous Government recognised this fact in that it introduced some years ago the notional salary method of adjustment of those pensions under which the Commonwealth segment of the pension was reviewed every 5 years and adjustments were made to this segment in line with the actual changes in the purchasing power of money. 
However, whilst this was an improvement on what had applied in the past it still left much to be desired. Over a period of 5 years the value of the pension would drop considerably, but the pensioner had to endure a falling value of his pension until such time as the Commonwealth restored some value to its contribution. The previous Government recognised the problem to some extent in that last year the then Minister mentioned the fact that it was examining the possibility of reviews being held more often. Of course, later on Professor Pollard conducted investigations, and this is what we are dealing with tonight. This Bill gives effect to the proposal for alterations to the pension to be carried out every 12 months and, as stated by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the alterations will be based on variations iri the consumer price index from one March quarter to the next March quarter, the increased payments being made on the first pension pay day in July of each year. This is subject to the increase not exceeding the percentage increase in average weekly eanrings. The increase will, of course, also apply proportionately to widows and other dependants of deceased superannuation contributors. 
This Bill is certainly a big step forward in providing justice to all former contributors to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund who have suffered injustices in the past because of the erosion of the value of their pension. I am sure that it has the support of every member of this House. The Treasurer in his second reading speech foreshadowed comprehensive reviews of other aspects of the scheme which we can expect to be tabled in the House in the future. We would hope that the scheme will give to contributors confidence in the future when they retire and will enable them to live at a level for which they have paid a fair proportion of earnings during their working life. 
There are a few other matters associated with the Bill on which I would like to make a few comments. We are all aware that when the Commonwealth Actuary made an examination of the Fund last year he declared that there was a surplus. I think the amount stated was $15m. Some years ago the surplus that then existed in the Fund was distributed to contributors to the Fund. However, last year the Actuary suggested a new scheme under which the contributor paid a proportion of his income according to the age at which he joined the Commonwealth service. Since then we have seen a new report which comes out with a different idea under which, I think, the contribution is based on 5 per cent of the employee's earnings throughout his working life. This report was tabled in the House 'ast week. I think it is about time that a scheme such as this was introduced, because as the contributors get older they find that the payment of their contribution units becomes a greater hardship, particularly in the last few years of their working life. I know, and we all realise, that towards the time when a person is due to retire on a superannuation pension, any increase he receives in his wages or salary results in an increase in the superannuation payments he has to make to maintain his contributions at a level comparable with his wages which often exceeds the increase in his wages. We hope that a new scheme such as the one that has been suggested is introduced so that we can overcome this problem that older contributors face when they are nearing their time of retirement. 
There are a few other matters which I would like to mention. I am a former contributor and I know of a number of contributors who, because they had growing families and could not raise the necessary finance to commence the purchase of a home, decided to use the accumulated money they had in the Superannuation Fund. They resigned from their Commonwealth job and used this money to purchase a home, because this was the only chance they had of raising the necessary finance. Because of this the Commonwealth in many cases lost good staff. I do not claim to be an economist, but I wonder whether an examination could be made to see whether it is possible for contributors to the Fund to have finance made available to them for. the purchase of a home with moneys provided from the Fund. Most of the men I know of who resigned were skilled tradesmen whose resignation was a loss to some Commonwealth instrumentality. 1 would also like to see examined the position of contributors who resign from the Commonwealth service to go to other employment. At the present time they get a return of their contributions and that is all. I suggest that an examination be made to see whether it is possible for these people to receive some return on the money they have held in the Fund for some years. This is a matter about which I have felt strongly for years and about which I know a lot of contributors who have left a Commonwealth job have felt strongly. All they have received back is the actual amount they have paid in. Often Commonwealth contributors living, say, in country towns are placed in the position where to get better education for their children, possibly to provide better employment opportunities for their children or perhaps for a healthy reason, they are required to resign from a Commonwealth job and move to the city. These people finish up with only the actual contributions they have paid. T would certainly like to see some examination made of the possibility of the contributors who resign receiving some interest payment on their contributions. I do not want to take up my full time. I certainly commend the Bill to the House. 
My question to the Minister for Transport refers to the announcement made by the Minister last January in which he instructed the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Railways to re-call tenders for the supply of sleepers, both concrete and timber, for use by the Commonwealth Railways in the construction of and maintenance work on the Commonwealth Railways system. Will the Minister state whether tenders have now closed? If so, when can we expect an announcement to be made as to whether concrete or timber sleepers will be used on that system? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
In the plans of his Department to establish rehabilitation clinics outside the metropolitan areas, isit the 
Intention of the Department to establish such a clinic in the Northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia, in either Port Pirie or Whyalla. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy and refers to the agreement reached between the Australian iron ore exporters and the Japanese steel industry. With the successful result of the negotiations on the price to be received by Australia for our iron ore exports, is this not a vindication of the present Government's decisions on the parity of the Australian dollar and also of its view that future contracts of this nature should be written in Australian dollars? 
I will not take up much time of the House but I wish to say a few words about the scheme as it is situated in my electorate. I have directed my efforts towards pushing the scheme while I have been a member of this House. The scheme has had a rather chequered career. There had been concern up to 1963 about the lack of a water supply to Kimba. Water had to be carted every summer. There was also a lack of surface water at that time. The South Australian Government investigated the feasibility of connecting Kimba to the Morgan-Whyalla pipeline but because of the estimated high cost of the project the idea was rejected. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  referred to the discovery of the Polda Basin. It is in the lower part of the Eyre Peninsula and holds a considerable amount of underground water. Consideration was then given to tapping into the Polda Basin to service this area. At that time the South Australian Government decided to go ahead with this scheme. In 1966 an approach was made to the then Federal Government for financial assistance to carry on the scheme, but the Commonwealth decided that the Polda-Kimba pipeline, or the Lock-Kimba pipeline as it was later known, should be excluded at that stage. 
The new program was announced in 1969 and in January 1970 the South Australian Government again made submissions to the Federal Government for assistance under the national water resources development program to complete the project. Unfortunately there was a long delay until October 1971 before a decision rejecting the approaches made by the 
South Australian Government was announced. Following that rejection approaches were made by quite a number of interested people, including myself, asking that the rejection be reconsidered and assistance given to the project. The main reason given for rejection at that time was the state of the wool industry. 
After approaches had been made in a number of quarters for the plan to be reconsidered the Federal  Government  agreed that it would reconsider it and asked the South Australian Government to submit new proposals. In May last year the South Australian Government submitted a new proposal to extend the scheme considerably, involving more pumping. Just before the last election the previous Government agreed that it would make available $2.1m of the $3m needed to complete the scheme in a reasonable time. This sum was to be given to the South Australian Government as a grant to complete the scheme. This Bill honours the undertaking given by the previous Government. It will allow the scheme to be completed ki a much shorter period than was originally envisaged and will certainly allow expansion of rural activities in the area. Only a few weeks ago I read a report in the Kimba newspaper that the pipeline had reached Kimba. Provision of the extra finance will allow completion of the branch lines and ancillary work. Completion of the scheme will accelerate much greater development of the area. This area has suffered in the past because of lack of surface water. I support the Bill- 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What was the profit or loss incurred by the Commonwealth Railways Provision Stores in its operations during the last five years. 
Can the Minister for Transport give the House any information on the result of the negotiations between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia for the construction of the standard gauge rail link from Crystal Brook to Adelaide and also the proposed new standard gauge line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many rural automatic exchanges have been installed by his Department in the Electoral Division of Grey during the last 4 years. 
Where have they been installed, at what cost, and how many subscribers are connected to each of these exchanges. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Have contracts been called by the Commonwealth Railways for the supply of sleepers, both timber and concrete, for use on Commonwealth railways track maintenance and replacement between Port Augusta and Port Pirie and beyond? If so, has any finality been reached with these contracts, and, if so, what type of sleepers are to be used in this section of the transcontinental railway? 
I think it was rather amazing to hear the speech that was just delivered by the former Prime Minister particularly when we consider the 1971 Budget - a Budget that created massive unemployment in Australia - and the 1972 Budget which was brought down to try to win an election. Firstly, I should like to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on the Budget which he presented to this House last week.  His  is not an easy position. He had to follow 23 years of Liberal Party-Country Party government. To hear honourable members opposite talking tonight and previously, one would think that the question of inflation, as the Treasurer said, started on 2 December 1972. But our memories go back to 1949 and I can clearly remember  Sir Robert  Menzies promising to put value back into the pound. Following that he was able to fool the Australian people, win the election and we then saw the greatest bout of inflation that Australia has ever seen. We can also cast our minds back to that time when the ordinary worker in industry secured cost of living adjustments to his wages. Although the problem of galloping inflation had been created by the Menzies 
Government the only way it could try to stop it was to cut out the worker's, quarterly cost of living adjustments and making him carry the whole burden. 
Speaking to the Budget itself, one of the main planks in the Australian Labor Party's platform was education. Following the winning the election on 2 December the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  set up the Interim Schools Commission under Professor Karmel, a well respected and renowned South Australian educationist, and of course he has brought down his report. The provisions contained in the Budget give effect to quite a number of recommendations in that report. Education, which I think for quite some time has been something of a poor relation, has had its allocation increased by 92 per cent to a grant total of $843m. This of course is of particular concern to me since I am, I think, the only South Australian Labor member who lives in a country area. That area takes in the Eyre Peninsula, through which I" travel quite regularly. I always make it my business to visit schools in the area. To say the least, the schools show the neglect of 35 years of Liberal Government in South Australia. Probably the most progessive  education Minister in Australia is  Mr Hugh  Hudson, from South Australia. He has drawn up plans to improve the standard of buildings and the general standard of education in that area. We know that the honourable members on the other side of the chamber are always very free with statements to the effect that the Labor Party does not worry about people in country areas. 
Mine is a wheat growing area. I suggest that if honourable members are ever in that area they should have a look at the schools there. One can see the effect of 35 years of Liberal neglect. But steps are now being taken and I hope that with the extra allocation in the Budget that the State Education Department will start to replace some of the old schools. The Department also has some plans but because of lack of finance in the past it has not been able to proceed. With the extra finance we certainly hope that the Department will be able to carry on and provide a decent education, decent buildings and so forth for the children in the more remote areas. 
I mentioned that the allocation will now allow the campaign for the provision of better school buildings and so on to be speeded up. In the more expanded areas of Whyalla and Port August - not so much Port Pirie because it has been static for some time - most of the schools are first class. But the rest certainly fall far behind. I would hope that with the extra allocation in the Budget by which the Commonwealth takes over full responsibility for all tertiary education, it will accept responsibility not only for universities but also colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges, technical colleges and so forth. The only technical institute in South Australia outside Adelaide is in Whyalla. Its activities at present are severely restricted to teaching mainly mechanical subjects. We hope that with the extra allocation the Whyalla Institute of Technology can greatly expand its activities, even to the extent of becoming a teachers college. By doing so this area which could be designed a growth centre, will be able to provide services for the tertiary education of many people on the Eyre Peninsula who now, if they want that education, have to move to Adelaide. 
The Government also took the opportunity in the Budget of increasing the living allowance payments to a total of $3 2m. We also notice that the amount allocated for technical training - a very important aspect of education - has increased by $10m to a total of $25.6m. We also note that in- the Budget the Treasurer is prepared to make allowances of up to $304 a year for children from low income families. This will certainly give an opportunity to many children who now do not have an opportunity because of the poor economic background of their parents, to take up adecent education and have the advantage of what is available to them. There is an increase of $97m in the 1973-74 year for capital current grants for primary and secondary schools. The appropriation of $2m fo assist in providing facilities for the teaching of migrant children must be a great help to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby). 
We have heard a lot of criticism of the Australian Labor Party with respect to its attitude towards those who live in the more remote areas of Australia. I hope that the Country Party, particularly the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who has mentioned this matter on many occasions, will give the Government credit for the provision it has made to assist in the education of isolated children. Not long after taking office, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  allocated Commonwealth money to provide for the first time for assistance in the education of isolated children. The amount of SI 2m has been allocated in such a way that, depending on the circumstances of a child's parents, a payment of $350 completely free of a means test and a further allowance of S350 subject to a means test may be provided in respect of each child who qualifies for this payment. The honourable member for Maranoa has spoken on this matter in the House on a number of occasions. Not many compliments have come from the Country Party with respect to the actions of the Labor Government and I hope that the honourable member for Maranoa will acknowledge this action which has been taken by the Minister for Education. 
The program of this Government is based largely on welfare matters. In this respect, I turn to provisions for health services. Community health centres were given some prominence in the Budget. Initially, an amount of $10m has been allocated to enable a start to be made on community health centres. We certainly hope that in the future we will see spread throughout Australia community health centres of the standard of those which have been opened at Melba and in one other suburb in the Australian Capital Territory. Also, $7. 5m has been provided to set up clinics to handle the problems of drug dependency and alcoholism. This is one extra provision included in the Budget in the he"alth field. 
The school dental scheme is fairly well advanced in a couple of States. In the Budget, $7. 9m is provided for the extension of the school dental scheme. The Budget also includes a provision for assistance to those older citizens, who must use hearing aids. At present, a charge of SIO is made for hearing aids for pensioners who bear the cost of the replacement of batteries for those hearing aids. The Budget will wipe out that charge. Pensioners will receive hearing aids and replacement batteries free of charge. 
I turn to the field of social services. Generally, pensions are to be increased by $1.50 a week. Mention was made that, in the autumn session of next year, a further increase will be granted. This action is in line with the electoral primise given by the Prime Minister prior to the House of Representatives election in December last. Recently, in answer to a question, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  stated, if it was found that the value of the increase of $1.50 had been eroded by that time, consideration would be given to lifting the level of the increase in autumn above the $1.50 a week that has been promised. I mention also the greatly improved home care program for the aged and increased subsidies to senior citizens' clubs. This provision will assist a few of the towns in my electorate which are now in the process of trying to raise money to provide senior citizens' clubs. The assistance that they will receive from this Budget provision will expedite the whole of that program and will permit these towns and cities to carry out these projects 
With respect to social services, I notice in the Budget an allocation to increase the number of regional offices of the Department in remote areas. As a member who represents a pretty vast electorate. I know that a number of the social service problems directed to me come by mail or by telephone. The provision of extra regional offices in at least 2 more of the major towns in my electorate would mean that a more extensive service would be provided to the people who will not feel so remote from these facilities to which they should have access quite easily. I was quite pleased to see the increase granted with respect to handicapped children. That increase is $1.50 a day. This matter is of particular concern to mc as I have a personal involvement with the Mimimooka Mentally Handicapped Children's Hostel in Whyalla. That hostel provides accommodation for retarded children from the Eyre Peninsula area. In the past, that hostel has run into many financial problems. Although it has received assistance from the Commonwealth Government with respect to the provision of the hostel building and it has received SI. 50 a day per child, it has still run into financial difficulties in trying to maintain the hostel and in providing a hostel situated close to a special school. The financial burden has been very great. The announcement that this hostel, Song with others, will receive another Si. 50 a day for each child will certainly give it a boost. 
I refer next to repatriation benefits. One of the repatriation provisions now included enables not only ex-servicemen to use the facilities of the Repatriation Department for the provision of artificial limbs and other artificial appliances but also civilians. I know that, at present, repatriation facilities are available for civilians but only at a pretty great cost. A visitor to me in Port Pirie last week showed me a bill which revealed that the cost to him of adjustments, etc., for such an appliance was $680. The fact that these people will be able to make greater use of the facilities of the Repatriation Department will take some of the financial weight off those people who have been unfortunate enough to have lost limbs and who must have those limbs replaced periodically. 
I intend to speak at length later, when the relevant Bills are introduced, on the increase in the allocation for Aboriginal advancement. I point out now that the allocation this year is double that which was appropriated last year. Certainly this is money which can be well spent because Aboriginal people in many areas have a need for advancement with respect to welfare, health and education. 
When the sitting resumed this evening, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  spoke in the Budget debate. He made mention of the program that he will introduce to assist people to own their own homes. In the Budget, $2 19m is made available to assist the States to provide welfare housing. There is also an increase of 20 per cent in the sum appropriated for defence service homes. Mention is made also of the new proposal by which the Labor Party intends to allow interest on mortgage payments to be tax deductible. I know that honourable members opposite state that this scheme will replace the homes savings grants scheme. At least the Treasurer has given plenty of warning that that scheme will cut out in December 1976. Nobody should be caught by saving for this scheme and then finding out that it has been discontinued because approximately 3i years' notice of the intention of the Government to take this action has been given. 
Although the homes savings grant scheme has been a means of assisting a large number of young people to obtain their own homes, it is not without fault. Plenty of anomalies have existed in it, particularly anomalies in relation to the upper limit with respect to the cost of a home beyond which the grant is not payable. I instance the case of one young man who was having his home built. While the home was under construction he decided that he would put in concrete footpaths, a brick barbecue in the backyard and other such items. When the value of the home was assessed, it was found to be $80 greater than the upper limit provided and this factor denied that young man the payment of that grant. I am sure that the provision which the Australian Labor Party intends to introduce to allow interest payments on mortgages to be a tax deduction will be of much more assistance to young couples than the homes savings grant scheme has been. Let us not forget that that scheme was introduced initially purely and simply as an election gimmick in the early 1960s. 
The Budget reveals appropriations by the Government for such matters as the arts, recreation and national fitness. One interesting item of which I took note was the amount that was allocated for legal aid purposes. We all know of the problems into which people get themselves. Those who are without means fate the additional problem that they cannot afford a lawyer. I know that it is said that such people can seek legal aid, but legal aid is a pretty complicated business. If one lives in a country area, it is not quite so easy to get legal aid. South Australia has recently introduced a scheme of legal aid. I am glad to see that the Australian Government is now to provide $2m to the States to assist them in the schemes they are operating. 
All the matters I have mentioned have been part of the Labor Party's election promises; they are promises that have been kept. I was surprised last night to hear the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the former Minister for Social Services, state that the Labor Party had said that when elected it would wipe out the means test. He used the word 'lies' quite often in his speech. I would say that what he had to say comes under that description. Everybody knows that I campaigned twice on the means test, once in 1969 when I said that the Labor Party would cut out the means test in 6 years and again in 1972 when I said that the means test would be cut out within 3 years. In the interim the means test had been eased by the previous Government. So, what was said by the honourable member for Mackellar last night was not quite true. 
I have only a few moments left and I wish to refer to the increase in petrol prices. Being the member for a large electorate I know what effect the increase in the price of petrol will have as I probably use as much petrol as does anybody in this House. I am a bit disappointed about the increase in the petrol prices overall, because it will certainly go right through the economy and will help send prices up, particularly in the more  remote  areas. I wish to deal also with postal charges. There is no doubt that the provision of telephone services in rural areas is a very costly business. I know that there is quite some discontent over the increased rentals. The telephone directory for my electorate shows that there still are a terrific number of manual exchanges. I think the increase of $8 in rentals for telephones connected to these exchanges is in proportion to, or slightly less than, the increase in many other areas. I know that the Postmaster-General's Department has come in for quite an amount of criticism, but there were a few items in which there were reductions. One of course was the first step on telephone trunk charges which are being reduced from 19c to 15c for a daytime call and 15c to 10c for a night call. The fee for the transfer of a telephone has now been dropped to $30. 
In concluding I refer to the position of the brandy grape growers in South Australia. I speak on this matter as a South Australian. I have read of the Premier of South Australia expressing his concern about the increase in excise on brandy and its effect in South Australia. I know that the Treasurer has said that he is prepared to listen to complaints on behalf of this industry and I hope that if he receives any submissions from the South Australian Premier he will give them consideration and see whether some better arrangement can be arrived at. I -had a few other comments to make but I notice my time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to a report in today's Press that the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria are to set up small claims tribunals to protect the interests of consumers. Will the Prime Minister suggest to the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria that they confer with the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  and his AttorneyGeneral,  Mr King,  who can provide them with the information on the most advanced and comprehensive legislation in Australia on consumer protection? I refer to the South Australian legislation on this matter. This is similar to the more advanced South Australian legislation on the control of land prices on which the Prime Minister commented favourably earlier this week. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs it is to be noted that there has been a large increase in the allocation for this Department this year. I am not critical of what has been done in the past.. I realise fully that since the Commonwealth Government assumed the power with respect to Aboriginal affairs the amount made available for this purpose has risen annually, but the. Commonwealth has never been in a position to say that it has been catching up on requirements. With the 92 per cent increase in money available this financial year we hope that we will be able to catch up on past deficiencies and do something of which we as a nation can be proud. I think all honourable members will agree that much catching up is needed and we hope that this year'6 allocation will enable us to correct some of the deficiencies. 
I should like to refer to a number of matters within my electorate which I hope the additional allocation will enable to be rectified by the responsible authorities and that, as a result, there will be some improvement in the conditions of Aboriginal people in South Australia. Apart from the urban dwellers most Aborigines in South Australia are located in the electorates of Wakefield, Grey and to a lesser extent Angas. Most of the western and northern Aborigines reside in my electorate and I should like to see something done for them. At Port Augusta, which is one of the larger provincial cities in my electorate, there is a considerable Aboriginal population of possibly 600 to 700. It is a fluctuating population. Port Augusta has been accepted by the Aborigines as the centre of this area. On the outskirts of the town is the Davenport Reserve which has been established during the last 7 or 8 years. Prior to that time it was a humpy town - a real fringe-dweller type of settlement. Despite what has been done by the South Australian State Government - it has provided a first class old folks home to care for Aboriginal people who are getting on in years - the reserve still leaves a lot to be desired. It certainly can be classed as possibly a semifringedweller type of settlement. However it provides a stepping stone for those Aboriginal people who want to move into the general community. It affords them the chance to become used to European type housing. What usually happens is that after a period in this reserve the Aborigines can be moved into houses provided by the South Australian Housing Trust. 
Recently some rather nasty incidents have occurred, including one in which violence was used. White residents got together and signed a petition asking that a particular family be removed from an area in the town. This resulted in a nasty accident in which some violence occurred. One of the problems concerned the question of housing. In this particular area 22 Aboriginal people were living in one house. They comprised a number of families and their children. Whilst I do not condone violence in any form I am sure it would be agreed that if white citizens were living in the same circumstances unhygienic conditions would result in that toilet systems would not operate, there would be overcrowding and an unhealthy situation. This indicates the great need for additional housing. 
In Port Augusta a group of Aborigines calling themselves the Aboriginal Social Club has done a fantastic job, thanks to money allocated by the Commonwealth Government and with the assistance of the local council in purchasing an old house and transforming it into a social club wherein the group has provided facilities for Aboriginal old folk, including a television room. The group has been able to provide a facility through which it can supply school children with a hot meal during the day. Playrooms and other facilities have been provided. Unfortunately the incident to which I referred a moment ago resulted in some adverse publicity in the local Press, the Adelaide Press and on television. Whilst I do not condone violence I believe that the media should take a more responsible attitude. The only time Port Augusta receives publicity on the Aboriginal question appears to be when something goes wrong. When Aborigines make a go of life, are able to hold down steady jobs, move into the town itself, become part of it and merge into community life no publicity results. It is only when something adverse crops up that the Press and the television blow it up in many cases out of all proportion. In so doing they incite racial hatred. I know from questions that I have been asked in the last few weeks since this incident occurred just how people's minds can be inflamed when something like this occurs. 
Last year the Commonwealth Government purchased the property known as Everard Park. This was a cattle station carrying 2,500 head of cattle. It has now reverted to its Aboriginal name of Mimili. Efforts are now being made to make this an area from which Aboriginals can gain some sort of living and on which they can occupy themselves. The land around this area is sacred to the Aborigines. It is located in the Everard Ranges. I have had the opportunity with the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  of travelling through this area on a number of occasions. One can appreciate the significance of these Ranges to the Aborigines in the area. I hope that part of this year's allocation can be devoted to this particular project which deserves the support of the Commonwealth Government. Stock numbers can be built up and a better type of housing can be provided. There are possibly 200 to 250 Aboriginal people in the area and by the provision of extra finance something can be done to improve their lot. 
Adjacent to Mimili is the State Government reserve of Indulkana. This is not an area about which we can boast. In 1968 this property was purchased as an Aboriginal reserve. A hard bargain was driven by the owners of Granite Downs station on which this area is located. The State Government was able to purchase 12 square miles of land but unfortunately it is not a good area for wood or water supplies. Apparently one of the conditions of purchase was that a dog proof fence had to be built around the 12 square-mile area. The people on the reserve regard this fence as they would a prison wall. These people are steeped in tribal tradition. Although they can jump the fence and walk on the other side of the property the fence has become symbolic to them. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will consider purchasing further land in this area to give these people more land on which to move around. The people could tell honourable members, as they have told the former Minister and myself on a number of occasions, that all their sacred sites are located outside the dog proof fence. This fence is a disgrace and I hope that when the Government sees its way clear to get control of more of the adjacent land that fence will be pulled down. 
Indulkana is an area in which advanced use has been made of the native language for teaching purposes. This situation applies also at Ernabella, Amata and other places in the area. The local language has been used in the teaching of children. It is very fortunate that some Aborigines who are full time teachers on the staff of the Education Department of South Australia are from that area and, as such, are able to teach the children in their own language. English has become a second language. What has been achieved there is a credit to all of the teachers who have gone into these areas and made their contribution. There is no doubt that they are very dedicated people. 
In the short period I have left in which to speak I wish to express my appreciation to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who is sitting at the table. I have sat with him on committees on Aboriginal affairs over a number of years and know his concern. I think everyone who has worked with him would appreciate the work he has put into this field. 
I regret that he is no longer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, although I am sure that the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will give of his best. 
I wish to pass a few comments on a number of matters which come within the administration of the Department of Transport. In the last few days, 1 have not agreed with many of the remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  But at least I do agree with him tonight as to the condition of the Stuart Highway which runs from the border to Port Augusta. Certain information given by the honourable member was incorrect. He said that the road from Alice Springs to Port Augusta was a dirt one. The South Australian Government has been working on this road and has completed bitumenising 65 miles of it. The South Australian Government expects to have further bitumen work to Woomera completed by the end of next year which will mean that 115 miles of this road will have a bitumen surface. 
This is a most important roadway in the electorate of Grey. It runs for some 600 miles through my electorate and serves the opal mining centre of the world, Coober Pedy. As we all know, exceptionally heavy rains have fallen this year. Depending on whether one is going on holidays or is relying on the land for one's living, this year can be described as being a good year or a bad year. The fact is that on numerous occasions in the last 6 months or 8 months, this roadway has been closed completely for days on end. Tourist buses, semi-trailers and people in caravans have been stranded on many occasions at various points along the highway. I hope that in the national planning of our highways the Stuart 
Highway from Port Augusta to Alice Springs will receive due consideration. It does serve a specific area. The township of Coober Pedy which, I repeat, is the opal centre of the world relies on it. Coober Pedy has a population of approximately 4,000 people. Two of the most important townships on this highway in South Australia are the Woomera village and Coober Pedy. They are the only big centres served by it. But I feel that, in the long range planning of our highways, efforts should be made to bitumenise this highway completely. That is what people in this area are entitled to expect. 
There is another matter I want to deal with in this debate although it may touch on the estimates for the Department of Supply. During those times when this highway could not be used permission has been granted in emergency cases to use the bypass through the Woomera rocket range area thereby cutting off approximately 50 to 60 miles. This road is not all bitumised but it is for a considerable part of the way. As I said, there have been occasions when permission has been granted to use this bypass in cases of emergency. There have also been occasions when permission to use it has been granted to public servants situated in the north who wished to travel south. I intend to make an approach to the Department of Supply to ascertain whether permission can be granted for this road to be used on occasions other than when the normal route cannot be used. The use of the Woomera road will save a considerable amount of time and travel will be over a much better roadway. As I said, the South Austraiian Government is doing its part in regard to this highway and it hopes to have the highway completed as far as Woomera by the end of next year. We would hope that the Government in its national planning will, by the injection of Commonwealth finance, help to expedite the sealing of this highway. 
Another matter of concern in the same area is the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line. For most of this year as a result of heavy rainfalls the existing narrow gauge line north of Marree has been continually affected by flooding. At times when the roadway and railway line would not be used because of flooding supplies had to be flown into Alice Springs. It was agreed some time ago that this line should be improved. The present Government has not altered the plans. We would certainly hope that in the very near future a start would be made on this section. 
Last year when this matter was raised the question was put as to what type of sleeper would be used on this track and also on other Commonwealth Railway lines. The Government at that time did commission a study by the Bureau of Transport Economics to ascertain what types of sleeper should be used - timber or concrete. The Bureau brought down a report which favoured the use of concrete sleepers. The reasons were clearly set out in the report brought down by the Bureau but I would say that the then Government for political reasons decided not to accept that report. The then Minister stated that timber sleepers would be used. As I said, I think that decision was purely a matter of political expediency and was made with the idea of trying to save a seat in Western Australia. 
I know that this matter has been resubmitted for consideration. The Minister for Transport has informed the chamber that both the timber industry and the concrete industry have been asked to make submissions which will be examined by the Bureau of Transport Economics. 'The Minister will make the final decision. I would certainly hope that in making that decision the Minister will favour concrete sleepers because I think that, apart from the report brought down last year by the Bureau which favoured concrete sleepers, it is the considered opinion of all competent railway engineers that this is the most advanced method of building railway lines. The Commonwealth Railways for some time have been utilising all-welded rails in most sections of railway. Last year the section of line from Port Augusta to Whyalla, which has an allwelded track and has concrete sleepers, was completed. To my knowledge that line has not given a great deal of trouble - not the sort of trouble that one would expect from a newly laid track. I think that experience has indicated that concrete sleepers are the sort of sleepers to be used in a bed for new railway lines. It is a fact that because of the extreme temperatures in the area in which this railway line is situated there has always been a very great possibility of buckling. But with the utilisation of concrete sleepers, the extra weight to hold the line down, the method of attaching the track to the sleeper and the fact that it is an all-welded rail will go a long way towards obviating the possibility of buckling rails in hot weather. It will certainly make a much better and much more solid track. As I said, the previous decision on the type of sleepers to be used favoured timber sleepers for reasons of pure political expediency. I hope that when the report does come down it again comes out in favour of concrete sleepers and that the Minister accepts the report and decides to go ahead with this particular track using that type of construction. 
There are a few more points that I should like to make. Quite recently, there was a dispute on the Commonwealth Railways involving the wages staff. The wages staff has been discontented for some time over the amount of expenses they receive when they are required to work away from their home station. It finished up as an industrial dispute lasting a couple of days. As a result of the conference that followed that dispute the men went back to work and a case was put to the officials of the Commonwealth Railways who agreed that there would be an increase in their expenses. This dispute is indicative of the discontent that often arises in the staff of the Commonwealth Railways. I consider that the difference between conditions applied to wages staff and those applied to the salaried staff have always been a source of discontent. I ask the Minister for Transport whether he will examine the conditions that apply in the Commonwealth Railways and, in cases where there is a big difference between the conditions that apply to wages staff and those that apply to salaried staff, whether he will examine those differences and see if something can be done to put the wages staff in a more equitable position. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply. I refer to a report in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' last week concerning the scrapping of the former National Aeronautics and Space Administration tracking station at Island Lagoon near Woomera. Were investigations carried out by the Department of Supply to see whether the facility could be used for scientific research in Australia? If so, what was the result of those investigations? Has the Department been approached by Australian scientific bodies seeking to have the facility retained for research? If so, what was the reply by the Department of Supply to those approaches? 
Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy state what is the present position between the Australian and South Australian Governments in relation to the proposed petro-chemical project to be established at Redcliffs in the Spencer Gulf area of South Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Secondary Industry. In view of the importance of the shipbuilding industry at Whyalla in the Grey electorate, can the Minister give any indication as to when the interdepartmental committee examining the shipbuilding industry is likely to bring down a report on this industry? 
Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy give further information on the negotiations between the South Australian and Australian governments on the establishment of a petro-chemical industry at Redcliffs in South Australia? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Have Commonwealth Railways recently made a decision to increase rentals for all residences owned by it and occupied by employees. 
If so, what is the percentage increase  of  these rent rises. 
Does the increase apply to residences in outlying areas on the Transcontinental and Central Australian lines. 
asked the Minister for Transport  upon notice: 
How many permanent maintenance camps are there on the: 
Transcontinental Railway between Port Pirie and Kalgoorlie, and 
Central Australian Line between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. 
How many of these camps have electric power supplies from Commonwealth Railways services. 
What charges are made by Commonwealth Railways for the supply of electric power to employees in these maintenance camps. 
I want to maKe a few comments on the estimates for the Department of the Media. My electorate represents over half of South Australia and takes in most of the remote areas. The extension of television services to those remote areas is something that occupies the minds of many of the people living in my electorate. Television services in the more populated portions of the  electorate  have been available to viewers since about 1965 in the case of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and from about 1966 in the case of the commercial channels. Although these 2 television channels now extend further down the eastern part of Eyre Peninsula and are able to provide a service to approximately 80 per cent of the electorate of Grey, there are still many areas which receive no television service. 
It is a fact that in phase 7 of the plans formerly of the Postmaster-General's Department and now of the Department of the Media to give a television coverage to as much of Australia as possible there was provision for the establishment of 38 remote area stations. Two of those remote area stations are in the electorate of Grey. One is at Ceduna, which is on the west coast of South Australia and the other is at the Woomera rocket range, which has an isolated population of about 3,500 to 4,000. The one at Ceduna was opened in the final stage of phase 7 about last June. I received word during the week from the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  that the station at Woomera will be opened on 30 November. Both stations are small. They have a very limited range. They have a maximum range of about 12 to 15 miles. Both stations will serve a very limited number of people. 
As I have already said, there are possibly 3,500 to 4,000 people at the Woomera rocket range. There are probably 3,000 to 3,500 people in the Ceduna area. But a great part of the Eyre Peninsula, which has an area of more than 40,000 square miles, will receive no television coverage. Although this area is sparsely populated it is nevertheless populated. It is an area in which there are a number of towns of possibly 600 to 800 people - some towns are smaller and others slightly larger - which receive no television reception. I have raised this matter with the previous Government in the past. I have also taken it up with the present Minister for the Media. Various reasons have been given as to why it is not possible to service these areas. One is that the actual cost of the provision of television services compared with the number of people receiving those services does not justify the outlay of the finance that would make such a television reception possible. I hope that this area will receive its due share in the next phase of the program for the provision of television services in remote areas. 
It is hoped that with technological advances in the television field it will be a lot easier to provide areas such as those to which I have referred with a decent television service. I know that a considerable amount of discontent is being created among the people of these areas because television facilities are provided to others around them but those who live in the vast hinterland of the Eyre Peninsula of South Australia are left out. I do not know the technicalities of the situation, but it has been put forward in the past that a large television station placed right in the middle of the area would give a coverage to a considerable part of the area. Of course the question of the cost involved has been raised and again that has been related to the number of people who would be served. It is a fact that the east-west broad band microwave link passes through this area. I certainly hope that it will be possible for these areas to receive a television coverage in the near future. 
I have stated in this chamber in the past that I believe that we should not have colour television until such time as the more remote areas are provided with some television reception. I know that I might be bashing my head against a brick wall by saying that at this stage because we all know that possibly at the beginning of July next year we will have colour television. I have had the opportunity of watching colour television and I know that it is very attractive, but I hope that in all of our moves to provide colour television to the more populated areas we will not forget about those isolated areas in which there is no black and white television at the present time. I hope that technological advances and improvements in the field of television will permit the extension of the coverage to those areas that do not receive any television service at present. 
I have always been an admirer of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Commission does not rely on the sponsorship of its programs and so forth. It has the responsibility of providing a general coverage on a wide range of programs to a large number of people. I have always had a high regard for the range and diversity of the programs the ABC provides. It has to provide entertainment for all classes of people. I think the Commission is to be congratulated on the coverage it provides throughout Australia. That applies more so in the broadcasting field than in the television field. As representatives of large electorates would realise, no matter where one goes in Australia one very rarely is in the position of being out of the range of an ABC radio station, although one can often move out of the range of a commercial radio station. I think the Commission is to be congratulated on what it has done in the past and, from what has been said recently, will be able to do in the future. 
I return to the subject of television. I know that it is generally held that a grave mistake was made in the provision of an extra channel in the major cities. Various people and organisations have expressed the view that the fourth channel that exists in the major cities and so forth should have been reserved exclusively for educational purposes. I fully agree with them. I think many experts now agree that the wrong step was taken in providing a third commercial channel to the major cities and 'that this channel should have been reserved for use for other purposes. I wish to make just a few more comments before I finish my speech. I was most interested to hear the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  comment on how harshly his former leaders had been treated by the media. I do not know whether the media treated them harshly, but I certainly think that some of the people who sit behind them treated them a bit harshly. The honourable member also commented on the talk-back programs. I agree with the honourable member in this respect. I do not often have an opportunity to listen to talk-back programs. The only occasion I do is when I am listening to the wireless whilst sitting in my car. Irrespective of what the honourable member said, I think the people who run the talkback programs, in South Australia at least, are very anti-Labor and not anti-Liberal. So, although I agree with his criticism of the talkback programs, I think the boot is on the other foot in that respect. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Do the Services recruiting offices utilise nonmetropolitan newspapers in advertising for Service recruits. 
Are the advertisements limited to newspapers whose circulation reaches a certain figure; if so, what circulation must a newspaper reach before it is used for Service recruiting advertisments. 
I would like to add my contribution to the debate on this &lt;Bill. I know that it is not a controversial Bill and that it has the support of most members of this House. I add my support for it. A few things have been said tonight about what has happened in the past. There has been mention of the Torres Strait Islands and other matters. In some way there seemed to be a reflection upon the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for the Capital Territory (Mr Bryant). If any criticism is to be levelled at the particular project undertaken there, we have to go back further than 2 December last year. Whilst this matter is at present the subject of an inquiry, I do not think that the previous Government is at all blameless. I hope that the whole thing can be straightened out. On occasions when money is being spread over a wide area, as it is in the case of the Aboriginal people, it is only natural that somewhere along the line something will go wrong. Possibly in the past there have been areas in which that has happened. But we on this side certainly hope that, with the lessons that have been learned from the past, we can use the money allocated to help the Aboriginal people in such a way that it will not be wasted but will be of the greatest benefit to them. 
I certainly do not want to take up a great deal of the time of the House. Somebody else may want to speak tonight. But I want to make some comments about the allocation of $32.25m this year, compared with the allocation of $22m last year - an increase of 46 per cent - -and to refer to its effect on South Australia and on my electorate in particular. The figures available to us indicate the increases that have taken place this year. I appreciate that, although the total increase is large, the amount spent on Aborigines was growing year by year even under the previous Government. However, this year we certainly have tried to allocate sufficient money to come to grips with some of the problems that we have to face. South Australia has received an amount of $4.699m, compared with $il.740m last year. Of this year's amount, $ 1.926m has been allocated for housing, compared with $690,000 last year; on community amenities $51,000 this year, compared with $86,000 last year - a small drop in that case; on health, an increase to $920,000 from $274,000 last year; and on education $1.3 15m this year, compared with $421,000 last year. 
When we talk about education in South Australia, particularly in the area I represent, we are dealing probably with some of the last people to come in contact with European society. I refer to the area in the north-west corner of South Australia which is tied in with the south-west corner of the Northern Territory and the mid-eastern part of Western Australia. In this area the South Australian Government certainly has done a particularly good job. It is probably the most advanced in the use of the vernacular in the education field. The South Australian Government has been able to appoint full-time Aboriginal teachers to assist in this field of education. 
One other matter that received a considerable increase was community and regional projects - an amount of $384,000 compared with $22,000 last year. This is a pretty big increase. Earlier I mentioned housing. In the Bill there is an allocation of an amount for the provision of 41 houses in South Australia. This may not seem a great number of houses, and it certainly would not be if they were the only houses to be provided for Aborigines. But the South Australian Housing Trust certainly fills a great part of the gap in this field, because whenever the Housing Trust builds homes in an area where Aborigines live an allocation of houses is made to Aborigines. In many of the larger towns a considerable number of Aborigines have been allocated houses and have moved into the town. 
I should like to mention a few of the community and regional projects. I think the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  was highly critical of the way some of the amounts have been spent. He questioned quite a number of projects. One he questioned was the provision of legal aid. I think legal aid is an area in which Aborigines have been at a grave disadvantage in the past. Anyone who lives in towns where these people are knows that it is only in the last 4 or 5 years that any compassion has been shown towards them and any consideration has been given to their problems. They have possibly been the victims of persecution. They may have been picked up for various offences. Only on rare occasions have they had the right to be represented by any legal person. If a white person was picked up he would engage a lawyer and possibly get off the charge, but of course this did not apply to Aborigines. I know of many occasions when they have been raided because a party has been going on. About 30 have been picked up in one hit, taken to the police station and all charged with being drunk. It would be interesting to go through the crowd and find how many were drunk and how many were not. As everybody knows, in most cases, to save trouble the Aborigines plead guilty. I feel that the provision of money for legal aid is something that is worth while. 
I can clearly remember about 18 months ago an Aborigine coming to see me when he was in strife. He bought a television set, but did not take out a licence. He apparently received a letter from the PostmasterGen.eral's Department. He ignored the letter. The reason he ignored the letter was that he could not read. I remember being called down to the local gaol to speak to him because he had not paid the fine. He had not turned up at the court because he could not read, he was fined and the next thing he was in gaol. Here was a case where there was certainly need for legal assistance for this man. The provision of legal aid is one matter I do not think anyone should quibble about. 
The honourable member for Herbert said that a few projects were wasteful. Let me mention a few projects within my electorate of which I have a little knowledge. I have seen some of the preliminary work that has been done. The money is certainly not being wasted. For example, there is an allocation of $25,000 for the construction of a new medical centre at Indulkana. Indulkana is in a pretty remote area of South Australia. The hospital used to be a 9 foot by 9 foot galvanised iron shed. I remember the nursing sister saying to me one day that she could be treating somebody for something on the bed and an Aboriginal woman would be having a child on the floor. Under this Bill $25,000 is allocated for the construction of a new medical centre. Provision is also made for the provision of family centres at the same place. These will assist the Aboriginal people and will also take them further along the way to being able to protect themselves in health matters. 
At Ernabella a garage workshop is to be provided for adult education. In quite a number of the remote places - Ernabella is one - there are ti few motor cars that Aborigines have probably purchased in Alice Springs, Adelaide or elsewhere. In the past it has been a very big job to try to keep these vehicles on the road. Most Aborigines are now mobile with motor cars. They use them to go out hunting and so forth. It was found that with the facilities that were available, particularly at Ernabella, it was impossible for the garage that was part of the establishment to maintain these vehicles. This has been a pet project of mine for a while. These people should be instructed in the normal maintenance of a motor car so that when something goes wrong they have somewhere to go to get assistance and so that they will be in a position where they can possibly do the job themselves and keep their motor car running. 
At Yalata further out on the west coast a craft block is to be built at the secondary school at a cost of $42,000. Again this is an area which is pretty isolated. It is about 180 miles along the Eyre Highway past Ceduna. Certainly that craft block will be put to a great amount of use. I see one further item: Highways Department training scheme*. I know that this was something which with the people of Indulkana we discussed with the Minister on a visit to the area quite recently. 
The Stuart Highway runs north and south from Port Augusta to Alice Springs and it goes within 5 miles of Indulkana. This is a dirt road which gets a lot of knocking about. It has had a pretty rough time this year with all the rain and it has to be maintained. It was suggested that the Highways Department of South Australia take a number of Aborigines, train them in the operation of earthmoving equipment and let them have the contract for looking after the road. I certainly hope that something like this can be done. In this area, about which I have spoken before, no other work is available. The people are in an enclosed 12 square miles reserve with a fence around it. There is no employment for them. We feel that if the Aboriginal people could be given this task it would be something for them to do and something which would be well worth while. If we go through the list we find - I certainly do not intend to mention all the grants - that quite an amount of money has been given to local councils. These councils have done a good job, particularly with the rural unemployment relief scheme, in providing work for Aborigines. Quite a few of these councils are mentioned. Many of them are now receiving a grant which will enable them to carry on with Aboriginal projects. 
One other item which is mentioned here, and on which I feel I should comment, concerns the establishment of an Aboriginal social club at Port Augusta. What happened in this particular case is that the Federal Government provided finance for the purchase of an old house. I know that when this house was purchased in the centre of the town I received a few complaints about what would happen. But to the credit of the people involved the whole project has been carried out by Aboriginal labour. They have been able to renovate this place. They have put decent fences around it and they hope to plant lawns and so forth. They have established television rooms for old people. They are trying to start a scheme to provide a hot meal daily for the children attending the local high school. This project is well worthy of commendation. It is something which we hope will keep going and which will grow. It is something which I certainly hope the Commonwealth Government will continue to support. 
Also mentioned in the list of various projects are allocations to various housing societies. Much has been said tonight about housing for Aborigines. I mention Ernabella where there is a housing society. These housing societies are established in a number of places. But I know that at Ernabella the Aborigines themselves have been building under the supervision of a tradesman carpenter. Not only have they been able to build quite a number of houses but they have also played a fair part in building their new store, in making the bricks and so forth. They have actually played a big part in the whole turnout. 
Another special project which gets a mention at Ernabella is the trickle feed irrigation project. As honourable members know Ernabella is in a very dry part of Australia. I think that its rainfall would be in the vicinity of 5 inches a year. At Ernabella a trickle feed irrigation scheme has been worked out. It is something which has received the support not only of this Government but also of the previous Government. Last time I was in that area it was quite pleasing to see the quantity of vegetables growing in an area which one would reckon would not grow a thing. All these are projects which I think are worthy of support. The previous  speaker  criticised a number of projects which are in this list. I am sure that all of those I have mentioned are worthy of support. I hope that in years to come further assistance will be given to these projects. That is all I wish to say. In closing I express my support for the provisions of the Bill. 
Is the Minister for Labour aware of the difficulties that are being experienced by unemployed persons in certain areas of the northern part of South Australia in obtaining employment? If so, what steps are being taken by his Department to overcome these difficulties? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What sum in compensation has been paid by the Commonwealth Railways to employees for loss of hearing as a result of employment by the Railways. 
How many employees have been compensated. 
What has been the cost of supplying hearing aids to these employees where such aids were considered necessary. 
MrCharlesJones-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since payments first commenced in 1966-67, the amount paid by Commonwealth Railways  to  employees for their loss of hearing as a result  of  their employment by the railways totalled up to the present time, $72,515.39. 
During the same period, a total  of  fifty-four employees were compensated of which thirteen  were  compensated in the last three years. 
During the same period, the cost of supplying hearing aids to those employees where such aids were considered necessary totalled $1,080.00. 
asked the Minister for Transport,  upon notice: 
Were discussions recently held at Alice Springs concerning the relocation of Commonwealth Railways facilities in that town. 
If so, did officers of the Commonwealth Railways take part in these discussions and what was the outcome. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many Service personnel will be transferred from the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera as a result of his statement of 20 November 1973 on the reshaping of defence activities. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are there any arrangements by his Department to supply oxygen free to pensioners for medical purposes and also to supply the necessary equipment to enable the use of the oxygen; if so, do these arrangements apply to pensioners residing the large areas of population. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. In view of the proposed petro-chemical complex to be established at Redcliffs in the northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia and the strain that will be placed on the resources of local government bodies in the area to provide all the necessary facilities and services for the expected expansion in population, what consideration has been given by the Australian Government to assisting those local government bodies affected in providing those facilities and services? 
In rising to support the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen, I refer to the Speech in which the Queen mentioned a few things that were included in the Government's program for the future. She mentioned the steps taken by this Government to improve the percentage of Australian ownership of its own resources. She mentioned the legislation that was to be introduced relating to the provision of a limited tax deduction on mortgages. Of course, this matter has received quite an amount of publicity in today's newspapers. The Queen also mentioned the plans of the Government to set up a pipeline authority which will ensure that Australia's natural resources, including natural gas, will be utilised to the best of Australia's ability. The Speech also mentioned the intention of the Government to reintroduce the industrial legislation which has been rejected by the Senate - legislation that we feel we must have on the statute book's of this country to bring about industrial peace in Australia and to allow the process of conciliation to become a prime factor in solving our industrial disputes. 
Her Majesty also mentioned what the Government intends to do in some areas of social services. Of course, this again has been the subject of newspaper publicity. The speech also mentioned the setting up of the social welfare commission which will develop the Australian assistance plan. Of course, in various areas of Australia, we have seen the Australian assistance plan start to take shape in the setting up of various committees and so forth, which will work with local bodies, which have already been established, to bring into being the Australian assistance plan. The Queen also mentioned the Government's plans in regard to Aboriginals, an area which certainly has been neglected in the past. I am sure that we all hope that with the increased allocation of finance and the greater Commonwealth involvement in this field, the Australian Aboriginals will move to take their correct place in Australian society. They are a few matters mentioned by the Queen in her Speech. 
Perhaps we can look back at what this Government has done in its period of office. The field of education is probably the one in which the Government can take the greatest amount of credit for what it has been able to do. The acceptance by the Commonwealth of a far greater share of the financial responsibility for education and the doubling of the amount that was previously allocated for this field certainly has given the educationalists of Australia the means by which they can bring about what they see as the essential educational qualities of the Australian people. 
In regard to the field of social services, I saw in a local newspaper yesterday an article in which a South Australian Liberal senator said that this Government had shown a complete disregard for the age pensioners in our society. How far wrong could he be, because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his 1972 policy speech promised that he would raise pensions by $1.50 twice a year until such time as the single rate pension reached 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. This policy was carried out last year with two $1.50 increases, the first of which was made retrospective to the first pay after the election. In addition to that, the Government has announced that it will increase the married rate pension by $5 a week - that is, $2.50 for each couple - and the single rate pension by $3 a week. Also, of course, there have been similar improvements in unemploy- ment benefits and other benefits in areas where the less fortunate in our society must rely on the Government to assist them. The Government has taken new initiatives in introducing new areas where social service benefits are payable. Possibly, I could mention the supporting mothers' benefit and the introduction of the orphans' benefit, both of which are completely new concepts. Another decision the Government has taken which will be of help to the older people in our society is the decision to alter the manner of adjusting the superannuation payments paid to former Commonwealth employees. Previously these superannuation pensions were adjusted only every 5 years. With the introduction of legislation in this respect last year the Government accepted responsibility for making adjustments every 12 months, from 1 July each year, in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. That will help the former Commonwealth public servants who are living on such pensions. 
It is well known that the introduction of the proposed health scheme by the Government has been rejected by the Senate. But that has not meant that the Government has not improved the whole question of health care in Australia. We have seen the introduction of a community health scheme. In this regard I wish to refer to grants made to community health centres. I know that my own electorate of Grey has received quite substantial support from the grants given in this area. Altogether an amount of approximately $400,000 has been granted to the electorate of Grey for the various health projects that have been submitted to the Government. There has been a grant of $125,000 for the extension of the existing community medical centre at Port Lincoln. That extension work will enable better services to be provided to the people of the area. One grant which was of great importance was the allocation of $126,000 to the medical centre at Ceduna. Ceduna is possibly the last settlement that one strikes in South Australia when going westward before reaching the Western Australian border. West of that area there is no township other than the small township of Penong, which relies on Ceduna for its health services. In this area there are also 2 Aboriginal reserves - the Yalata Lutheran Mission and the Cooniba Aboriginal Reserve - both of which rely on the township of Ceduna for the supplying of medical care. The grant of $126,000 will enable the setting up of a mobile clinic at Ceduna to service this area and to provide health care to the people of the area. 
Another area which has benefited from the community health centres grant is Coober Pedy, which is an isolated opal mining centre approximately 400 miles by road from Port Augusta. It relies on a flying doctor service and a hospital run by dedicated nursing sisters for its health care. It is a township which has a varying population. In the summer months  j  the population drops away, but in the cooler months of winter the population has been estimated by some to be between 3,500 and 4,000. It is serviced only by a flying doctor service and nursing sisters. The granting of an extra $125,000 to this area will enable a better health care service to be provided. In addition ( to those large amounts there has also been a grant of $17,000 to 2 smaller areas to enable them to extend their existing medical services. Altogether the amount that has been granted for community health services in the electorate of Grey is in excess of $400,000. 
Another innovation by the Government was the introduction of legislation to enable grants to be made to local government bodies for the setting up of senior citizens clubs. The electorate of Grey has gained from this legislation. The sum of $94,000 was granted to the local council in Port Pirie for the setting up of a senior citizens club. Work is well under way in that respect. I wish to refer also to the grants given by the Department of Tourism and Recreation. Once again the electorate has been the recipient of a large grant, mainly because of the situation in the city of Whyalla. The city of Whyalla has grown from about 12,000 people in 1958 to 35,000 today. Due to the rapid expansion that has gone on the local authorities and so forth have been pretty hard pressed to provide the increased facilities that are required. The Department of Tourism and Recreation, in conjunction with the South Australian Government and various other local bodies, including the YMCA and the South Australian Housing Trust, has contributed $375,000 towards the setting up of a cultural and recreation centre to serve the needs of this area. The Commonwealth contribution in this respect represents approximately 50 per cent of the cost of the project. I know that there are other areas in the electorate of Grey that have made submissions to the Department of Tourism and Recreation for assistance along these lines. No doubt it will be forthcoming. 
Perhaps I should refer also to the subject of transport in the area. It is known that there has been talk about the Alice Springs-Tarcoola railway line and that money has 'been allocated for survey work in this regard. I am sure that a decision to go ahead with the construction of this railway line is not too far away. I notice that the responsible South Australian minister made a statement the other day to the effect that he expects an agreement to be signed in the near future in this regard. I have mentioned quite a number of times in this Parliament the Eyre Highway and the Stuart Highway. The Eyre Highway links South Australia with the west and the Stuart Highway links South Australia with the north. As honourable members know, a report has been brought down by the Bureau of Roads on this subject. I have noticed that the Stuart Highway is regarded in the report as being one of the roads that oan be classed as a national highway. If the Commonwealth Government presses on with its policies in this regard, as I am sure it will, I believe that we will see that road, instead of being a responsibility of the South Australian Government as it has in the past, come under the financial responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. A certain amount of money has 'been allocated to South Australia by the Commonwealth Government for its roads. The former Commonwealth Government has said to South Australia that it has to set the priorities as to how it is going to spend its road moneys. Because there are a number of unmade roads in the western part of the State the South Australian Government has had to split the money it has spent on improving roads. That has meant that the sealing of these roads has been a slow job because only so much can  be  done at a given time. I hope that, with the acceptance  by  the Commonwealth of a responsibility for road works, the maintenance of these roads will no longer be the responsibility of the State but that the financial responsibility for their construction will be fully accepted by the Commonwealth Government. The roads to which I have referred are very important. They serve not only the Northern Territory but also other areas along the way. Included in those areas is the area I mentioned earlier, Coober Pedy, and the Woomera rocket range. All those areas are surely deserving of bitumen roads. 
A lot has , been said recently about the referendums on electoral matters and so forth. Much has been said about the position in 
Queensland. I think that Tom Playford would not be able to hold a candle to the present Country Party Government in Queensland in this regard. South Australia has had a gerrymandered electoral system for quite some time. The gerrymander in the time of the Playford Government was such that some electorates with only 4,000 people in them were returning one member and other electorates with up to 40,000 people in them also were returning one member. Even under this system the Liberals lost badly to the early Walsh Government and the Dunstan Government. When the Labor Party was defeated in 1970 the Hall Government realised that while the Liberals held power by this unfair and undemocratic system they could not hold up their heads in South Australia. So the Hall Government introduced a system which, although it was not perfect, did move a bit towards being a fairer system in that the average city electorate finished up with 14,000 voters and the average country electorate with about 9,000 voters. Since then things have changed out of all proportion. We should see a redistribution being brought about in South Australia shortly because at present there are around 27,000 voters in some of the city electorates in South Australia and 9,000 in some of the country electorates. Although most people applauded Steele Hall for his progressive thoughts in trying to give some balance to South Australian electorates, I do not think he was forgiven for doing so by the conservative element in his Party because it was not very long before he was no longer the leader of it. I would say that there are some people in it who will never forgive him. For many years in the Legislative Council elections we had a very restricted franchise. After much agitation the franchise was extended but it still was not a full franchise. For many years it appeared that the Labor Party, although polling 52 per cent to 54 per cent of the popular vote in South Australia, could hold only 20 per cent of the seats, in the Legislative Council. At the last State election, due to .a large number of enrolments - enrolment for the Legislative Council was voluntary - we were able to wrest 2 of these seats from the Liberal Party. It was quite obvious that if we kept working along those lines we could even beat them at their own rotten system. Not so long ago they accepted an alteration to the Legislative Council which should give us a fairer democratic system in South Australia and which should reflect the wishes of the South Australian people. 
A lot has been said about rural industries. One could be forgiven for thinking that there had been five or six years of prosperity for farmers and that, since Labor came to office, they had fallen into a trough of poverty. That is not the case. Anyone who knows anything about it knows the problems that the farmer has been through in the last four or five years. Not many years ago a pretty harsh across the board wheat quota was forced upon them. In some areas they still have wheat quotas. This hit the smaller man a lot harder than it hit the bigger man. People had produce, but could not sell it; they did not have any markets. A previous Australian Prime Minister said that to get ahead Australia needed men, machines and markets. Over the last few years of Liberal-Country Party government we had the machines, we had the men but we did not have the markets. Since the Australian Labor Government came to power people cannot say that we do not have the markets. The Government has gone out and has been able to get markets for the farmers to sell their produce in. 
The previous Government promoted the concept of 'get big or get out'. From moving around farms at that time I know how confused the farmers were. They did not know what the future held for them. They had plenty of grain tout they had nowhere to store it and no markets. Whatever people say the Labor Party has done, at least the farmers can look to the future knowing that there will be a ready market for their produce. I feel that the matters to which I have referred indicate that the Labor Government will push ahead with a program that should give the Australian people a much better life in future. I am sure that they will indicate their support for this program at the Senate election which will be held very shortly. 
It is not often that I speak on the adjournment but tonight I should like to take the opportunity of raising a matter that is of great concern to the employees of an Australian Government instrumentality. I refer to the employees of the Commonwealth Railways who are required to work on the trans-continental railway and on the central Australian railway. These employees, most of whom are fettlers carrying out the necessary line maintenance of these particular railways are stationed at a number of camps along these lines, the 3 main ones on the east-west line being at Tarcoola and Cook on the South Australian side of the border and at Rawlinna on the Western Australian side. There would be in the vicinity of 20 houses in each of these camps. The houses are in the main of wooden construction and in most cases have been up for many years. They are in areas where summer temperatures can reach extremes. I have personally experienced temperatures in the vicinity of 120 degrees fahrenheit in these areas. 
The matter I would like to raise tonight is the extent of necessary fire protection available to people living in these isolated railway camps. I have already discussed this matter with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  who has the ministerial responsibility in this field and have received assurances from him that he will investigate the cause of the complaint which I now mention. On 28 February last, for reasons of which I am unaware, one of these timber houses at Cook along the Nullabor Plain caught alight. The tenant of the house was a fettler who had only recently been transferred to Cook with his wife and children. I understand that his wife had slipped out of the house to make some purchases from the Commonwealth railway store nearby. She had left a 9 months' old baby asleep in the house. 
It was then noticed that the house had caught fire and, before any effective means of controlling the fire was found, it was too late and despite all the efforts of the local people the unfortunate child was burned to death. Not only did the unfortunate family lose their youngest child but also they lost all their furniture and household effects and in fact now have to start off again from scratch. As usually happens in unfortunate cases such as this, everybody has rallied around to give them the maximum assistance, but all this assistance does not bring back the child they have lost. 
My reason for speaking on this matter tonight is the lack of adequate fire fighting equipment available in these camps when situations such as this arise. Twenty-five years ago I was transferred in my employment to one of these camps for approximately 3 years. One of the odd jobs that was often allocated to me was to check the fire fighting equipment. 
In those days each of the houses had a small soda ash and acid type of hand extinguisher. There was also one larger type of extinguisher which, from memory, was called a 'Waterloo' type. This was a drum, approximately 4 feet to 4 feet 6 inches long and about 1 foot in diameter, filled with water, soda ash and acid. Attached to the drum was a pair of iron rimmed, spoke wheels. The whole apparatus had to be dragged by hand to the scene of any fire along a dirt road. I had one experience with it when one of the Commonwealth Railway buildings caught fire at Tarcoola and am aware of how awkward the apparatus is to handle. I might add that we did not save the building on that occasion. 
On making some inquiries following the fire at Cook, I was shown photographs of the firefighting equipment and, to my surprise, I find it appears to be exactly the same equipment that was available 25 years ago. From the information given to me, when the fire was noticed, residents tried to use the hand extinguishers without success. Attempts were made to use a small hand pump to get water on the fire but the intense heat drove the residents from the available water supply. A small motor pump borrowed from the Postal Department employees was used, in addition to the larger Waterloo extinguisher, but all to no avail. The house with the child inside was burned to the ground. It was fortunate, I am told, that the adjoining houses did not also catch fire. I have photographs taken after the fire and one of these indicates the scorched paint work on the next house in the row. This house was apparently saved by a wind change. A strong wind blowing in the wrong direction could have destroyed many of the houses in the row. 

 Mr Speaker, I have given you a sketchy description of what happened at this Commonwealth Railways camp on the Nullabor Plain on 28 February last. It is obvious that the firefighting equipment to cover an emergency such as this is hopelessly inadequate and there is, surely, a strong responsibility on the Commonwealth Railways to take every step possible to see that situations such as this do not occur again. A full inquiry should be carried out to see what is required to give these Commonwealth employees some sort of modernised equipment to enable them to have the fire protection they need and deserve. The employees in these camps are among the lowest paid of all Commonwealth Railway employees. 
They live in isolated situations, have to rely on nursing sisters for medical attention and the Flying Doctor in emergencies, or a train journey to either Port Augusta or Kalgoorlie, which in the case of Cook, where the fire occurred, is a trip in excess of 500 miles in either direction. They have no television, very poor wireless reception and they lack all modern amenities. They have to rely on the well-known 'Tea and Sugar' train for their supplies once a week. 
Commonwealth Railways has great difficulty in recruiting staff for the very necessary railway maintenance jobs along its lines, and situations such as I have described would certainly not assist in recruiting staff. There is certainly a responsibility on the authorities to see that there is no repetition of such situations as I have outlined and that a full inquiry is made not only into the cause of the fire but also into what equipment is necessary to give railway employees the protection to which they are entitled. I ask the Minister to do n 15 utmost to see that these inquiries are carried out to the fullest extent. These employees are all members of the Australian Workers Union, whose representatives have asked my full assistance in seeing that drastic measures are taken to ensure no repetition of such situations. Failure to carry out the vast improvements needed can only bring about a situation where the union itself will have to take the necessary action to give its members protection. I therefore urge the Minister to do his utmost to rectify the intolerable position presently existing in an Australian Government instrumentality. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of the possible closure of Port Augusta as a shipping port as a result of the cessation of the shipment of Tennant Creek copper ore and concentrates through that port? Is the Minister aware that Pacinex Pty Ltd is to commence exporting copper ore from Mount Gunson, 80 miles north-west of Port Augusta and that the concentrates are to be taken 270 miles by road to Port Adelaide, bypassing Port Augusta? In view of the grave threat to the employment of Port Augusta waterside workers, can the Minister cause an investigation to be carried out to see whether Mount Gunson copper concentrates can be shipped out through Port Augusta in the same way that Tennant Creek concentrates were shipped out, and by so doing ensure the retention of Port August as a seaport? 
In speaking to these 3 Bills, I will at this stage confine my remarks to the National Roads Bill. But before dealing with the Bill, let me say that the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  a former Minister for Shipping and Transport, charged the Government with reducing the amount made available for roads. It is rather strange that just before the suspension of the sitting for dinner we heard the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  chastising the Government and urging restraints. I do not know whether the 2 approaches can be called consistent. 
This is the first time in Australia's history that there has been a national roads policy. I think we have fallen behind many other countries comparable in size in developing such a policy. I refer to Canada and the United States. Both of those countries have a much larger population than we have - 'more so the United States than Canada. At the same time, because of our comparative size, which is about geographically the same as that of those 2 countries, and our smaller population, the question of road transport becomes a much bigger factor in our daily lives. With our limited resources and because of our smaller population it is very important in what we do with our road transport that we make the most use of what we have. Because of the long distances between our centres of population and also because of our small population, the component of transport cost in the cost of our goods is also very important. 
In looking at a national roads policy we also have to look at the question of complete co-ordination of our land transport, that is, both our roads and our railways. I think that the Government's national road policy will dovetail with that concept. We are already paying at the present time for the mistakes made in our transport planning of the last century. We have had to change our railway gauges because we had 3 different gauges. We all know what it has cost Australia and will cost in the future to right those wrongs of the past. We want to make sure that in implementing the national roads policy we do not make mistakes that have to be corrected. It is a fact that the previous LiberalCountry Party Government had no policy such as the national highways policy we are debating tonight. 
The honourable member for Gippsland said that just before the previous Government was defeated in December 1972 it had instituted a survey into our road system. Of course, out of that survey came the national roads policy. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has given some practical application to the report of the Bureau of Roads. The Liberal Party policy - I know this from the questions I have asked on many occasions concerning the roads in my own electorate - was that the amount allocated to the States for rural arterial roads could be spent according to the priorities determined by the States. In the western part of South Australia there are 3 highways - the Flinders Highway, the Eyre Highway and the Stuart Highway. Under the Liberal policy the South Australian Government could have put all of its eggs in one basket and concentrated the allocation it received on one road, but it had to keep faith with people in various areas and the money was spent piecemeal on the various roads. It is interesting to read the report of the Bureau of Roads. It states: 
Within their financial limits, State Governments tend to allocate road finance to all areas of their States so that each area shares in the benefits from road improvements. Consequently it is difficult for State Governments to assemble the large resources to construct long segments of main arterial roads joining major centres. Our investigations have indicated the importance of the provision of major road links and we reported to the then Minister for Shipping and Transport in February 1972 that these roads were inadequate and that current policies were not likely to increase the rate of improvement of these roads, which is desirable in the national interest. Consequently, we recommended that the Australian Government give immediate consideration to the provision of financial assistance for those main arterial roads which join major centres and which should form the nucleus of a National Highway System. 
That is basically the policy the Minister has accepted and is giving effect to in his national roads policy. He differed from the. report in one area. The Commonwealth Bureau of 
Roads recommended an allocation of 80 per cent by the Commonwealth and 20 per cent by the States. The Minister decided to change this and to provide that the Commonwealth should provide 100 per cent of the cost of developing and maintaining a national road system. The construction of such a system also has to be considered from a defence point of view. During the bad war years of J 942 and 1943 when the troops had to be moved north, the congestion which occurred in the various centres through which the troops were taken was pretty shocking. I think that in looking at a national roads policy we also have to take into account the defence potential of roads. 
I represent the largest electorate in South Australia. I represent all the western portion of that State and I have a particular interest in roads because, as I have mentioned earlier, both the Eyre Highway and the Stuart Highway are within my electorate. There are still 3 main unsealed highways but two of these get a mention in the national roads plan. Although the plan has not yet 'been put into operation the State Government has been allocating resources to both these roads, despite the lack of assistance from the previous Commonwealth Government, although I will concede that just prior to the 1972 election the State Government received an allocation of $2.5m from the Commonwealth Government to assist in construction of these roads. Work has progressed to the extent that over the last 18 months about 75 miles of the Eyre Highway and 66 miles of the Stuart Highway have been sealed. Possibly a further 120 miles will be opened soon. 
The north-west area of South Australia through which the Stuart Highway passes has been severely affected by rainfall during the last 18 months. The area has had 4 times its normal rainfall. There have been many occasions in the last 18 months when the road has been impassable and towns isolated. The opal mining towns of Coober Pedy and Andamooka have been particularly affected. Whilst Andamooka is not on the Stuart Highway it relies on transport from the Stuart Highway for its essential goods. The airstrip also has been out of commission at various times and this, too, has created problems for the people in the area. During periods of heavy rainfall tourist buses, semi-trailers and private cars were stranded. This has emphasised the need for bituminising this highway and the Eyre Highway. 
During the term of the previous Government I asked the then Minister for Shipping and Transport a number of questions about allocations of money to South Australia to enable completion of the sealing of these roads. His reply was a stock answer - that South Australia had been allocated so much money to spend within that State and it should set its own priorities but should seal these roads out of that allocation. The amount South Australia received was nowhere near enough to complete this particular task. Many approaches were made to the Federal Government for assistance for this work. The leaders of both the Liberal Party and the Labor Party in South Australia made two approaches to the Federal Government. On both occasions they, were supported by the Premier of Western Australia - in one instance a Liberal Premier and on the other occasion by Labor Premier Tonkin. Their approaches were not successful until just prior to the 1972 election when an allocation of S2.5m was made to South Australia to enable the completion of the sealing of the Eyre Highway. It was suggested in the approach to the Federal Government that South Australia "should not be required to do this job on its own because a count of vehicles on the Eyre Highway revealed that 84 per cent of those using it did not reside in South Australia. This indicated that this was truly a national road which was used by people from Victoria and New South Wales travelling west and people from Western Australia travelling east. Very few South Australians use that particular section of the road. 
The Stuart Highway runs from Port Augusta to Alice Springs and is included in the national roads program. It is hoped that with the allocation of money the work on this road can be completed speedily. It will not only provide a sealed link to the Northern Territory but also to Woomera. (Quorum formed). At present the Stuart Highway does not follow the most suitable route to Alice Springs. In his second reading speech the Minister said that the road would be re-routed to considerably shorten its distance. If the road could be directed through the Woomera rocket range a considerable saving could be achieved. At present a security road serves Woomera but it cannot be used by the public. If the road could be routed through the rocket  Tange  area a considerable saving in mileage could be effected. 
I fully support the proposals relating to the national roads program. Under the National 
Roads Bill $700m is to be allocated to the States. The Transport (Planning and Research) Bill allocates a further $26m to assist the States in their planning and research into their particular roads. I hope that through the allocation of this money we will see a great deal of co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States to ensure that in the future Australia has a first-class road transport system. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
As Indulkana Aboriginal Reserve occupies an area of 12 square miles, ringed by a dog-proof fence and surrounded by Granite Downs Station, in north-west South Australia, have any moves been made by the South Australian or Australian Government to acquire further areas from Granite Downs Station to ensure that Aborigines have free access to adjacent areas of great significance to them. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I refer to reports in which it is stated that the Australian Government is to hold a public inquiry into the environmental effects of the establishment of the Redcliffs petro-chemical project in the Spencer Gulf area of South Australia. Can the Minister give any indication as to when it can be anticipated that the committee of inquiry will complete its investigations? For what period will the inquiry delay the intention of the South Australian Government to introduce indentures to cover this project? Can the Minister elaborate on the Press statements that have been given out? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Have any arrangements been made between the Civil Aviation section of your Department and the Progress and Mining Association at Coober Pedy to raise the standard of the airstrip at Coober Pedy. If so, what are those arrangements. 
I should like to make a small contribution to this debate. First, I would like to take up some of the points made by the member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who blamed the South Australian Government for the delay of 2 years in the introduction of this Bill or the commencement of this railway. I think the honourable member is forgetting the time that had to elapse while the survey took place. He attacked the South Aus.tralian Premier, Mr Dunstan and blamed him for the delay. The South Australian Premier is responsible for looking after the interests of South Australia. When the Labor Government came to power an impasse existed between the South 
Australian Government and the Commonwealth and that impasse was tied up partly with the fact that the Premier of South Australia wanted guarantees concerning the railway line that now runs from Port Augusta to Marree and which brings down the Leigh Creek coal. Leigh Creek coal is very important to South Australia. It fed the power houses in Port Augusta which at one time provided 75 per cent of the State's power. Since the construction of new power houses in South Australia that percentage has dropped, but Leigh Creek coal is still a very big factor. It was announced recently that the South Australian Electricity Trust will probably build another coal fired power station in Port Augusta, which makes it very important that that line be kept open. 
The South Australian Premier was defending his own State and defending one of his lifelines. As I said, when this Government came to power there was an impasse. The present Minister foi Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and  Mr Virgo,  the South Australian Minister for Transport, got together and were able to thrash out a solution to that impasse- I hope I had a small part to play in that- and as a result we have this Bill before us today. If there have been delays they have been quite genuine delays in that the people who were responsible were ensuring that everyone had a fair go. The member for the Northern Territory also condemns the Government because the line has not started yet. The Opposition was in power for 23 years and the flooding of the northern line did not start when the Labor Government came to power. The line has been flooded at times ever since it was built. The Opposition had every opportunity in those 23 years to do something about starting that line. That is all I wish to say about the speech of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
In talking about the northern line we are talking about a line that has had a very checkered history. It started in South Australia as a South Australian Government line in the latter part of the last century and crept up bit by bit until it got to Oodnadatta in the 1920s. In 1926 the Commonwealth took over the north railway in South Australia and under the terms of an agreement reached at that time the line was extended to Alice Springs, reaching there in 1929. It was never really a first class line. It was light rail and had a narrow gauge track and was never really suitable, although it certainly played a big part in the development of the Northern Territory. It remained at that stage until the 1950s when, due to pressure from the South Australian Government to bring Leigh Creek coal down to the power houses it was building in Port Augusta, Commonwealth Railways built a broad gauge line from Port Augusta to the Leigh Creek coalfields and then extended that line on to Marree. Further north of Marree the narrow gauge track remains, and it is still that track that causes all the trouble. At the present time transfer facilities are required at Marree. Of course, I am not arguing with the member for the Northern Territory about the state of the track. I think we would all agree that it is not in a very good state and is out more times than it is in. The problem with the track is that it is on the eastern side of the watershed and the rivers when they flood completely cover the track. Over the last 2 years, probably the worst period in the history of the track, the line has been out for periods in excess of a month, 6 weeks and so on. In fact, it has just been out for over a week and I think the first train got through only yesterday. 
I think I saw a statement by the Chief Traffic Manager of Commonwealth Railways that the trains were moving yesterday. I have a particular interest in this new line because the greater part of it runs through my own electorate. I have been through that country on numerous occasions and I know what the conditions there are like. I know that the main reason for this line is the service it is going to give to the Northern Territory. I know it is essential and should have been constructed many years ago. When the South Australian Government handed the Northern Territory to the Commonwealth there was an agreement to put the northsouth Trans-continental Railway through. Unfortunately no time limit was put on the project and so we find ourselves in the position we are in today. I hope that when the line eventually gets to Alice Springs we will be in a position, while we have the material, the equipment and so forth available, to carry on and complete the promise given by the Commonwealth in 1910 to take the line right through to the north. As I said, this line will service mainly the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory has certainly had a bad time, particularly over the last 2 years, not only with railways but with roads being out for long periods of time. This line serves the northern areas of my electorate, such areas as the Coober Pedy opal fields. For engineering reasons I understand the line will not be going through Coober Pedy but will be passing within 20 miles of it and will give the people there at least an all-weather service that should obviate the problems they have had to face in the last 2 years when, like the railway, the road has been out for weeks at a time. The line will also bring the Northern Territory into the railway grid in that we will have a broad gauge line connecting all the capital cities and the Northern Territory. Of course, we hope that in years to come it will carry on to Darwin. Under the Government's new national roads plan it is intended to seal the road from Port Augusta to the border. I understand that the road on the other side is practically all sealed but I am not quite sure on that point. We know that the line will be of a very high standard. Those who had anything to do with the Whyalla to Port Augusta railway line, which was completed a couple of years ago and which involved the use of the combination of a welded track with concrete sleepers and so forth, would know that a first-class piece of railway line was built. It is probably the best in Australia. With the use of those more modern techniques the railway line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs should be of the same high standard. 
I would like to make a few remarks about the Adelaide to Crystal Brook linkup. Its construction will complete the linking of all the capital cities by a standard gauge line. This line is of great importance to South Australia, mainly because South Australia's industries are predominantly consumer durables. Those industries rely on the eastern States for their markets. The breaks in the gauge have been a bit of a problem to South Australia in relation to the transport of its goods. Possibly it has been more of a problem to South Australia to transport goods to New South Wales than to Victoria, which has a 5 feet 3 inches gauge link-up with Adelaide. South Australia relies on the markets of the eastern States for the sale of its goods. At present the bogie exchanges at Port Pirie and Terowie are causing delays. The construction of this line will obviate the need for such an exchange. 
Although the new line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook is going to be of great benefit, it is going to have an adverse effect on the city of Port Pirie. At present Port Pirie is an important railway junction. It has a bogie exchange, South Australian railway facilities, goods sheds and so forth. The construction of this line is certainly going to have some effect on the employment opportunities in the area. That will be unfortunate as the area is already experiencing stagnation as far as employment opportunities are concerned. As a result of the construction of this line Port Pirie will lose to a certain extent the employment opportunities that come with the railways. There have been conferences between the South Australian railway department, the 
South Australian Minister for Transport, the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner for Railways and Commonwealth officers on what can be done to assist those people who could be displaced by the completion of this link. I certainly hope that consideration will be given in the future by the States and the Commonwealth to the effect that the completion of this line is going to have on the city of Port Pirie, and that in some way or another Port Pirie will be compensated for the loss in job opportunities that could come about. 
I conclude by referring again to the construction of the line from Port Augusta to Marree in the 1950s and the use that was made of the Commonwealth Railways facilities at Port Augusta for the construction of bridges and all the other work that goes along with the building of a railway line. I think that everyone who had anything to do with that project would appreciate the very fine job that was done by the Commonwealth Railways employees in the construction of bridges. I certainly hope that in any construction work that is necessary for the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line full use will be made of the facilities at the Commonwealth Railways headquarters at Port Augusta. It can do the work. It has the expertise and it has proved in the past with the Port Augusta-Marree line that it can do the job. I hope that the Minister will take that into account in the allocation of work in relation to this project. That is about all I wish to say on this legislation. I fully support both Bills. I hope that once the Tarcoola to Alice Springs line gets to Alice Springs, conditions will be such that the line will be allowed to continue on to Darwin, which will be in line with the agreement reached between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia in 1 9 1 0. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. With the establishment of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority can the Minister inform the House how the funds allocated to that Authority are to be utilised, apart from information which he just gave to the honourable member for Kennedy? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to reports that the activities at the Woomera rocket range in South Australia are to be phased down and the range is to be placed in mothballs? Is there any substance in these reports? If so, what steps does the Government intend to take to safeguard the employment and other interests of the people now stationed at Woomera who are likely to be made redundant through any phasing down of operations at the rocket range? What effects are likely on other Weapons Research Establishment operations in South Australia? 
-I should like to address my remarks to the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. In his Budget speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  states: 
The Government accorded a high priority to Aboriginal Affairs in Budget allocations in 1973-74. We propose a further substantial expansion of activity this year. 
The Budget allocation for Aboriginal advancement last year was almost $ 100m; this year it has been raised by another $64m to about $164m. This will allow a very big advance in Aboriginal welfare in all the fields in which it has been assisted in the past. Since the referendum on Aborigines in 1967 when the Australian people gave the Australian Government the right to legislate for Aboriginal advancement there has certainly been a big increase in the Government's activities in this field. In this respect, I think that we must pay tribute to what was done by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  We may not agree with a great many of the remarks that he has made. But we do appreciate the fact that he has a great knowledge of Aboriginal matters and has a great concern for the Aboriginal people. We know that his actions led to progress in this area. This is something that was needed for many, many years. The referendum in 1967 led to the Commonwealth entering into this field. Although we have a long way to go, much has been done in the time in which the Commonwealth has been engaged in Aboriginal affairs. It is obvious that the legislation relating to Aborigines is better in some States than it is in others. There was no uniform policy throughout Australia on Aboriginal affairs. The passage in 1967 of the referendum on Aborigines permitted the Federal Government to accept a national responsibility and to adopt a national approach to the problems of Aborigines. The Commonwealth has been able to undertake negotiations with most of the States in respect of Aboriginal needs. But problems still exist in Queensland. We certainly hope that these problems can be overcome. However, the position at this stage does not look too good. The Australian Government intends to proceed with its proposals in respect of Aborigines in Queensland regardless of what the Queensland Government intends to do. 
The Australian Government has made certain promises with respect to health, education, employment and housing. Although action has been taken in these areas, certainly the Australian Government still has a long way to go. However conditions in respect of these areas of activity are certainly much better than they were some time ago although many hurdles still remain to be overcome. The new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has conscientiously applied himself to his job as did his predecessor. By his work and the work of the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  these problems will be overcome. 
Let me indicate the concern that has been expressed by this Government for Aborigines. Yesterday, in the Senate,  Senator Cavanagh  introduced the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill. Looking at the figures included in that Bill, we find that the amount provided by the legislation has increased from $5.4 lm in 1969 to $40.79m at present. The provision of these funds will permit more assistance to be given to the States to provide housing, health, education, employment, welfare and community services for Aborigines. 
Quite recently, as a member of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, I was able to visit some Aboriginal settlements in the Northern Territory. Much of the work that is taking place in various areas in the Northern Territory is something for which the people connected with it can take credit. Most of the work is being done by the Aborigines themselves. This shows that given an impetus, the wherewithal and with interest being shown, they can do the job. I refer in particular to the Warrabri settlement which is half way between Alice Springs and Tennant Creek. We were rather amazed to see the number of vegetables growing there. There were acres of cornfields. Cattle were being raised. It was a real oasis in the desert. I do not say that this Government can take all the credit for these things coming about. The previous Government did start work on some of these projects. But the fact that more finance is being provided in these areas by this Government permits these improvements to take place. 
Possibly one of the initiatives that has been a great advance for Aboriginal people in these areas has been the setting up of housing societies. I have had the opportunity to visit quite a few of them not only in my own electorate but also in the Northern Territory. Under the supervision of white carpenters and other tradesmen, the Aboriginal people are building their own houses mostly out of cement bricks which they make themselves. The work of those connected with this activity certainly reflects credit on them. 
When this Government came to office, it took one step for which I believe the Minister for the Capital Territory, who is sitting at the table, can take credit. Realising that the Aboriginal people could never speak to the Australian Government with one voice, the Minister proposed the establishment of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. I know that this proposal was criticised left, right and centre, by some pretty narrow minded people. But the Minister went ahead, did his best, and the NACC organisation was set up. Aboriginal representatives from various areas throughout Australia were elected to that body. For the first time, Aboriginal people had a forum in which they could as one body express their wishes and aspirations. 
Any organisation such as this, which represents a new initiative, must suffer teething troubles. But I am sure that the common sense of the people involved in the NACC will lead to its becoming a body which will assist the whole of the Aboriginal people. Those elected as representatives of their people to the NACC have come from various areas throughout Australia. They have connections with those living in these areas. They know the problems that exist. Also they will have direct contact with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. As they are known to the Minister, they will be able to advise him directly on problems in specific areas. 
I wish to refer now to some of the matters which affect my electorate. In South Australia, the largest Aboriginal population is concentrated in my electorate. Certainly the Aboriginal population there is not as large as the Aboriginal population in the Northern Territory, Queensland or Western Australia. The biggest percentage of Aborigines in South Australia are in my electorate. The Aboriginal population ranges from those who still have strong tribal ties in the north-west reserve area to some sophisticated Aborigines who live in some of the larger cities in my electorate. 
In Port Augusta, for example, some great advances have taken place through the initiative of this Government. Some of the Aborigines in that area, with the aid of money from this Government, purchased an old house in Port Augusta in which they sought to set up their own social club. This proposal was very strongly criticised by a great many people in the town. What has happened since then is certainly to the credit of those Aborigines. They have renovated that old house, built new fences and completely upgraded the whole area. They propose to purchase another house close by so that they can extend their activities. Anybody connected with that Aboriginal social club can be quite proud of what has been achieved. 
Let me outline the types of activities in which these Aborigines indulge. Rooms have been set aside for pensioners, a television set, etc. Pensioners can come, sit there and enjoy themselves. Previously, they sat in Gladstone Square, a park directly opposite where no shelter was provided. Special attention is paid to school children. Many years ago in Port Augusta few Aboriginal children went to high school. Now I think more than 120 Aboriginal children attend high school. The Aborigines are striving to provide the Aboriginal children attending primary school with a hot midday meal. By providing this hot midday meal, they are ensuring that these children will get at least one nourishing meal a day. These people also are active in organising sporting activities. Legal advice is provided there. Because of this, we find that relations between the police and the Aborigines at Port Augusta have never been on so high a level. Certainly there are problem areas, but, generally speaking, relations with police officers are not a great problem. 
Quite recently, again with the assistance of the Australian Government, these Aboriginal people bought out an earth moving firm in Port Augusta. They have worked very strongly indeed on this enterprise. I am informed that it is going well. The work is under the control of Aborigines who have the assistance of a former employee of the earth moving firm. These people can be proud of what they have achieved. The whole undertaking is run completely by full blood Aborigines. From my association with them I have gained the feeling that they are jealous of what have achieved and that they want to keep things as they are. They do not want anybody else offering paternal advice for they have shown that, given an opportunity, they can do what they have to do. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to support the estimates for the Department of Transport, which are in excess of $260m. We are seeing for the first time a more integrated approach to the whole problem of transport in Australia. I may be repeating a cliche, but we have a small population and a large country so the costs that are involved in transport are very important to the general economy of the nation. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  certainly has been an extremely busy Minister since he was appointed to his office. He has introduced a great deal of legislation that has gone a long way in setting the groundwork for giving Australia the system of transport which we so sorely need. Only last week we saw the introduction of 2 Bills to provide for the construction of new railway lines in South Australia- the Adelaide to Crystal Brook line and the Alice Springs to Tarcoola line. Both of them will be of great importance- the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line to the people of the Northern Territory and the northern part of South Australia and the Crystal Brook-Adelaide line to the general economy of South Australia in that it will link South Australia with the national railway grid. 
In dealing with railways, I point out that quite recently the Minister introduced the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill. As he said in his second reading speech, the urban public transport agreement provides for a further series of projects directed towards the upgrading of the urban public transport systems of the States. 
Here again we are seeing new initiatives in the field, with the Commonwealth coming in to assist the States. In the estimates for the Department of Transport are allocations to South Australia. These allocations are of supreme importance. For example, quite recently the South Australian Government was placed in a position where it had to take over quite a number of bus services. Of course, this placed a great strain on its resources. The estimates provided an amount of $4.1 lm to purchase these private bus companies. Also, $2m is allocated for new depots, land and so forth, and $lm is allocated for rolling stock for the new Christie's Downs railway line. This is an extension of the Adelaide metropolitan railway system. This project certainly will give South Australia a bit of a kick along. 
In relation to the use of public transport in South Australia if I could digress for a moment, we have heard a lot said about people using pubUc transport less. It was quite interesting to read an article in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' today which reported  Mr Scrafton,  the DirectorGeneral of Public Transport in South Australia as commenting that people are coming back to public transport in South Australia. In fact he compared the figure of 41.6 million passenger journeys travelled last year with a total of 47.5 million this year. That indicates that there is an increase in the use of public transport in that State. We hope that with the new initiatives by this Government that trend back to public transport Will increase. The Government also has introduced the new roads legislation which certainly Will help the States in carrying out their roads program. One aspect that I feel is of extreme importance is the acceptance by the Commonwealth of responsibility for national roads. Previously the States have had to find money out of their allocation to provide the finance to construct and maintain national roads such as the Eyre Highway, the Stuart Highway and other main highways in Australia. But, with the national highways program, the amount that has been allocated by the Government to carry out this program should relieve the States of a considerable responsibility and allow these projects to proceed at a much faster rate. 
I should like to make reference to a few matters in regard to the shipbuilding industry and shipping m general. A few remarks were passed here- by a former Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  and by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)-  in relation to the closure of certain shipyards in 
Australia. The honourable member for Griffith laid the blame for the closure of some shipyards on the Australian Government. He referred to Walkers Ltd. I understand that the Walkers shipyard was flooded on 2 occasions; it was found that it was situated in a completely unsuitable position; and because of this it had to cease operations. I understand that at the time of the company ceasing operations it had on order millions of dollars worth of work with which it could have proceeded. In the case of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, although that firm was in trouble and I think it still has problems with the finishing of the 'Robert Miller', this Government did assist the firm with the order for the submersible drilling rig. So I do not think it can be said that this Government did not try to assist these companies. 
Another matter that was raised was the closure of the Birkenhead shipyard in Adelaide run by the Adelaide Ship Construction company. Well before this Government came to power that company had made the decision to close. I remember going with a deputation of trade union officials to see the Minister at that time. The then Minister quoted figures and explained that this firm had been in a position to tender for quite a number of jobs that were on offer at that time- in fact 39 ships- but the Adelaide Ship Construction company did not tender for any of them although it could have tendered for 18 of them. Included in these tenders was one for a ship that subsequently was built at Whyalla- a 4,000 tonner that could have been built by the Adelaide Ship Construction company. It was being built by one of the shareholders in the Adelaide Ship Construction company, but the firm decided not to take it away from Whyalla. It left it in Whyalla and as a result the yard closed down. I do not think it can be truly said that we have not supported the shipbuilding industry. On 2 December 1972 there were 39 vessels on order or under construction and on 14 October 1974 there were 68 vessels. This is a big increase. The honourable member for Griffith stated a few weeks ago that many of these ships were trawlers, but he did not say at the time just how many of the 39 ships on order at 2 December 1972 were trawlers. 
Our major shipyards are the State Dockyard in Newcastle and the Whyalla shipyard. Of course, the Whyalla shipyards are in a very good position at present. They have orders that wm take them up to 1978. They have orders for 2 bulk carriers of 43,000 tons, a roll-on-roll-off bulk carrier, a 12,600 tonner, 2 trans-Tasman rollonrolloff vessels of 12,700 tons and 2 unit load carriers of 4, 100 tons. The State Dockyard at Newcastle has on order a tanker of 24,000 tons, one other tanker of 24,000 tons, a vehicle deck container vessel of 6,700 tons dead weight and a bulk carrier of 25,000 tons. So I do not think that by any stretch of the imagination it can be said that this Government does not support the shipbuilding industry. It is proved by these figures that this is not so. This Government has 2 particular interests in shipbuilding. One is to see a viable Australian shipbuilding industry carry on and the other is to ensure that Australia breaks into the overseas trade. We are a shipping nation. Most of our goods are carried in other than Australian-owned ships. There are 2 factors: Firstly, we have to have the ability to build the ships and, secondly, we have to have Australian manned, owned and, if possible, built ships to carry our goods overseas. 
A few weeks ago the Minister for Transport introduced the Australian Shipping Commission Bill. That legislation shows what this Government has done to put not only the shipbuilding industry on its feet but also Australian shipping in general- To give honourable members some indication of the position, in 1956 the Australian National Line had 42 ships with a tonnage of 250,000. It now has 31 ships amounting to 651,000 tons which is nearly three times its original tonnage. The second reading debate on that Bill discloses what this Government has done to put Australia on the overseas trade route. We have been told about the ships that we have purchased and the ships that we have on order. We know of the ships that carry some of our bulk trade and the ships which carry a much bigger proportion of our overseas trade. I am sure that nobody can say that this Government has not played its part in ensuring that Australia has a full and viable shipbuilding and shipping line. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice; 
What sum has been paid out by the Commonwealth Railways to employees as compensation for loss of hearing? 
What sum has been paid out by the Commonwealth Railways for the supply of hearing aids to employees afflicted by loss of hearing? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What aid has been given to Indonesia during the last 2 years. 
In what form has this aid been given. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of the increases awarded recently to Qantas pilots by the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal, can the Minister give any information on the actual earnings of Qantas pilots before and after the increases were awarded? Is it a fact, as reported, that only a very small number of pilots can earn up to $47,000 per annum under the Coldham award- a report which received considerable publicity? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present state of the order books of all the major shipyards in Australia. 
To what period in the future will these orders commit the shipyards. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Are feasibility studies being carried out on the possible establishment of a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. 
If so, was one of the areas to be studied the northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia. 
3 ) If so, what stage has been reached in the studies. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry been drawn to the report that a major South Australian car manufacturer, General Motors-Holden 's Pty Ltd, is to carry out a major expansion program at a cost of $ 18m? Does the Minister consider that the decision by GMH indicates confidence in the future of this industry, as a result of the recently announced plans of the Australian Government for the restructuring of this important Australian industry? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are there any plans for the establishment of an office of his Department in Port Augusta, South Australia. If so, when is it anticipated that the office will be operational. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that transmission of colour television will commence on the ABC regional television transmitters in South Australia. 
-As a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory I would like to say a few words. I believe that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  will quite adequately answer some of the criticisms that have been directed at the Bill. As a member of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory itwas my pleasure to go to Darwin on a number of occasions and to enjoy the hospitality and community spirit that was evident in that city. Like everyone else in Australia, I was deeply shocked when the news came through of the disaster and when I saw the devastation that was caused to areas such as Nightcliff, which was completely flattened and which was described earlier as being similar to that caused to Hiroshima. As the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech, the decision to evacuate Darwin was taken the day after the cyclone had struck. This decision threw great strain on many of the areas through which the people from Darwin had to pass. 
The Minister paid credit to work done in Darwin's sister town of Alice Springs and also in Mount Isa, Kununurra and other places. I come from Port Augusta which is one of the peripheral towns to which the evacuees from Darwin went. I suppose that Port Augusta, Mount Isa and other Queensland towns as well as Geraldton and Carnarvon in Western Australia were the first to receive evacuees. The local civil emergency service in Port Augusta, which had not long been in operation, immediately swung into action when it was known that the evacuation was to take place. It had to look after people who had made the long haul south from Alice Springs. Those people had to drive 850 miles with the opal mining town of Cooper Pedy and the rocket range at Woomera being the only two centres of population between Alice Springs and Port Augusta. I feel that we must pay tribute to the work done by the civil emergency service in Port Augusta supported by people from the local service clubs, unions, churches and other organisations, as well as by people in the other towns and cities of the area. Although most of the aid was needed in Port Augusta, the adjoining cities certainly came to the fore with the provision of funds and other assistance. 
The Darwin evacuees who went to Port Augusta were faced not only with the journey from Darwin to Alice Springs but also the journey of 850 miles from Alice Springs to Port Augusta. Many cars were in bad condition with badly worn tyres and so forth when they arrived in Port Augusta and the evacuees were able to receive a great deal of assistance from the Port Augusta civil defence organisation backed up by the local community. I heard a few anecdotes. I remember one which concerned a person who was caught in Darwin and who had the reputation of being a very strong anti-Catholic. When I spoke to him at Port Augusta he told me that when he lobbed in Mee Springs all he had was a pair of shorts and that the organisation which supplied him with clothing and so forth was the St Vincent de Paul society. 
Not only should we recognise the efforts of the people of the Port Augusta area, we also should sympathise with and admire the reaction of the people of Darwin. We should admire also the reaction of those people who were not affected directly by the cyclone but who recognised the plight of the people of Darwin and were prepared to give of their best to make sure that those people were looked after. I do not want to refer to the Port Augusta area only because the support of that area was typical of that given in many areas in Australia where the people really got behind the local organisations that were set up and were able to render assistance. I mentioned a few of them earlier. I pay tribute to all of those towns and cities that received the Darwin evacuees and did their best to see that they were looked after and that their lot was eased as much as possible. 
I do not want to say too much about the Bill. I believe that the Minister at the table will answer the criticisms that have been made. This legislation will enable the Government to carry out its promise to rebuild the city of Darwin as speedily as possible. We hope that the Government will be able to rebuild a safer, more comfortable and much better city. I fully support the Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security seen Press reports lately of statements by major private health insurance organisations defending their recent fee increases? Has the Minister noted that one of the main reasons why the health insurance funds say that their fees have increased is that the Australian Government has refused to increase its hospital and medical benefit subsidies? Is it correct that in fact the Australian Government already pays large hospital and medical benefit subsidies? Are these health insurance funds which are so keen to urge the Government to increase spending on health subsidies the same funds as say that Medibank is undesirable because it will lead to increases in Government expenditure? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many wage employees are employed by Commonwealth Railways. 
How many of these employees are (a) members of the permanent staff and (b) classed as temporary. 
What criterion is used in assessing the number of wage employees appointed to the permanent staff. 
How often are reviews carried out to ensure that permanent wage staff establishments are kept up to the necessary requirements. 
-I rise to speak in support of the Bill, the Australian National Railways Bill 1 975. It is a Bill that is in line with other legislation that has been brought into this House by the present Government in an effort to improve our transport system. We have had legislation before us that for the first time has allowed Australian Government involvement in areas such as a major national roads program and in other transport matters. This Bill refers to our railway system and specifically the railway system for which the Australian Government has full responsibility. Of course I refer to the Commonwealth Railways. We have also seen in the last session the introduction of legislation to provide for the construction of 2 major railways projects in South Australia, namely, the Alice Springs-Tarcoola line and the standardisation of the line from Crystal Brook to Adelaide. These are 2 of the largest railways projects carried out in Australia for many years. 
Any legislation seeking to improve our transport system is of tremendous importance to the Australian nation. Transport has certainly been one of the major hurdles we as a nation have had to overcome. We are a very large country with a comparatively small population, and because of this the distance which we have to transport our goods places a large transport cost component in the price of all the goods that we purchase. Geographically, we are very similar in size to the United States of America, but we have a population about 6 per cent or 7 per cent of the population of that country. That emphasises the importance of transport, especially long distance transport, to a country such as ours. The United States had a big advantage in the development of its railway systems in that generally speaking it constructed its main railway systems using the standard gauge of 4o feet 8 te inches. We in Australia were not so "smart. We had 3 different gauges, that is, the broad gauge of 5 feet 3 inches, the standard gauge of 4 feet 8te inches and the narrow gauge of 3 feet 6 inches. This situation was brought about mainly by State jeolousies and in some cases because of economic factors. We are still paying the price for the lack of foresight of our forefathers. 
In my electorate at the Port Pirie railway yard there were once the 3 different gauges. The standardisation of the Broken Hill- Port Pirie section of the transcontinental line cut this down to 2 gauges in the one yard. With the decision of the Government to standardise the railway line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook linking it up with the main east-west railway line, the number of gauges will be reduced to one. This, of course, is one of the main reasons for the Bill. Because our forefathers developed their railways systems as insulated systems within their own little colonial empires no consideration was given to any scheme to integrate the variety of systems that existed. It was another classical example of the price that Australia has to pay for the artificial lines drawn on the maps- the State boundaries. 
On the assumption of office by the Whitlam Government in 1972 the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  appreciated the problems that existed in having 6 State railway systems and a system operated by the Australian Government, that is, the Commonwealth Railways. 
The Commonwealth Railways came into being only because of the needs of Western Australia and because of the threats of secession by that State. If it had been left to the States at that time the transcontinental railway line would never have been built. However, it is a fact that every Labor Government that has held office since Federation has left behind its monument to its forward thinking. The monument of the Fisher Labor Government is, of course, the Transcontinental Railway. 
The Government has made an offer to take over the various State railway systems. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  the approaches came first of all from  Sir Robert  Askin and  Sir Henry  Bolte, the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria respectively. The offer of the Australian Government was made in an effort to upgrade the Australian railway system generally. It was felt that this could be achieved only by the co-ordinating and integrating of the existing systems. It is a fact that there has been over the last decade a much greater degree of co-operation between the various systems which has resulted in more standardisation in the types of rolling stock in such a way as to allow the interchange of vehicles between the various systems. With the development of bogie exchanges at break of gauge points, the problems of having to transport goods have been overcome to a large extent. The lengthy goods trains that now traverse the transcontinental railway look like patchwork quilts. They are made up of rolling stock of all sizes, shapes and colours from every railway system. The saving in transport costs brought about by this operation must be tremendous. 
It is interesting that this Bill should be under discussion this week because in Canberra this week there is a meeting of the railway commissioners of Australia and New Zealand. I was interested to read what the  Chairman  of this meeting had to say. I refer to  Mr K.  A. Smith, the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner. He said: 
The recent decision of the Commissioners of the Railways of Australia to expand the Railways of Australia office and to appoint an executive director to control this office was indicative of the Commissioners' desire to provide closer cooperation between the individual systems. 
The Commissioners will discuss a variety of matters associated with inter-system working at their Canberra conference and their decisions will have significant influence on the railway operations in the future. 
The expansion of the Railways of Australia office will ensure that these decisions are implemented with a minimum of delay. 
We certainly hope that, as a result of the commissioners ' discussions, further steps will be taken towards the integration of our railway systems. It is my opinion that we no longer can afford to allow State jealousies to place brakes on the proper development of our railways. 
The Minister for Transport in his second reading speech said: 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend certain provisions of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1973 in order to create the Australian National Railways Commission, thus providing for the increasingly wider functions and responsibilities of Commonwealth Railways including the transfer of State railways; to ensure that the powers, duties and functions of the proposed Commission are, where possible, consistent with other statutory authorities with a similar nature; to make amendments to the Act, which will bring it into line with current commercial practices of statutory authorities; and to overcome administrative problems raised by the Auditor-General. 
One of the main points in the Bill is the ability of the Commonwealth to take over the State systems. As was mentioned earlier, the first initiative in this area came from the Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  on assuming office, offered to take over the State railway systems. After 2 years of discussions, only 2 States are prepared to talk turkey with the Commonwealth on this matter. Initially 3 States were prepared to do so. Western Australia was prepared to enter into discussions. But, with the change of government in Western Australia, the new Government followed its party line. Western Australia decided that it would not take part. Discussions concerning the integration of the railway systems have taken place between the Australian Government and the South Australian and Tasmanian State governments and have reached a pretty advanced stage. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, gives some of the history of the Trans-Australian Railway and the setting up of the Commonwealth Railways. He mentions that in 1951 the 
Commonwealth Railways commenced the introduction of dieselisation. Within a few years the broad gauge system was completely dieselised. The narrow gauge system was completely dieselised a few years later. It might be interesting to note at this stage that the dieselisation project commenced in the days of Ben Chifley. The orders for the first Australian-built diesel electric locomotives were placed by the Chifley Government in 1949, before it went out of office. Prior to that, the Commonwealth Railways was in an extremely bad state. Its locomotives were old and its rolling stock was completely dilapidated. Since then, the Commonwealth Railways has been built up to a degree where now it is probably the leading railway system in Australia. It certainly has the most up to date rolling stock and possibly the best diesel electric locomotives. 
One of the latest major railway construction projects is the Whyalla-Port Augusta link which was carried out using the latest railway techniques including concrete sleepers and welded track. Welded track also has been used in some parts of the east-west line. In fact, that line has the longest section of welded track in the world. I think it is approximately 37 miles long. I mentioned earlier the bogie exchanges and the ability of vehicles to be changed from one system to another. The honourable member for Port Adelaide mentioned some of the disabilities of using various State vehicles on other systems and how these vehicles were returned empty when they could be used further. The Minister, in his second reading speech, also mentions the disadvantages that all railway systems face because of the shortage of rolling stock. He states that the Commonwealth will accept responsibility for financing another 1 300 railway vehicles so that these shortages may be overcome. 
One other very important matter in the Bill is that the old single commissioner system is being altered by providing for 7 commissioners, one of whom will be the  Chairman  of the Commission. Of course, one of those commissioners will be a trade union official. This is in line with Government policy. The Government has appointed members of the trade union movement to a number of commissions and boards which have been set up, and I think that it is a forward step. On too many occasions mistakes are made by management but people who have had active experience in the trade union movement and who know the feelings of the employees working in a particular system, are in a position possibly to overcome problems before those problems even arise. 
One other important point in the Bill relates to the availability of ancillary services. I have always strongly believed that for a railway system to operate effectively it must have ancillary services. It must be able to feed into other railways systems- be a more complete railway system, in fact- so that it does not have to rely completely on private enterprise. A railway system is a government enterprise and it should have the right to provide ancillary services so that it can give a full service, not merely half a service. This is of particular significance to Tasmania which is one of the States negotiating with the Commonwealth for the handing over of its railways. Tasmania has to rely so much on shipping, and if the shipping were tied in with the railways it would be to Tasmania's advantage. Having said that, I  fullysupport the Bill. 
Having been a Commonwealth Railways employee for 25 years and a union official on the system, there are a few matters that affect the employees in the Commonwealth Railways which I should like to mention. At the present time, the Commonwealth Railways is also a housing authority. This arose from the historical setting up of the Commonwealth Railways. It was required to employ people away from normal townships. There was no housing authority in those days and the Commonwealth Railways became the housing authority in those townships. Since then the Commonwealth Railways has built up quite a number of houses. In Port Augusta alone it has approximately 450 houses, and it also has houses along the railway line. Although the houses along the east-west line are of a reasonable standard, on the narrow gauge line north of Marree they are of an extremely poor standard. They are old stone buildings which were constructed by the State Government in the 1880s. They are a disgrace. They are a leftover from the 23 years of Liberal Government. Nothing has ever been done about them. Quite recently the unions took up the matter with the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner and also with the Minister, and I certainly hope that the Minister will look into this matter to see whether something can be done about these houses. 
At the present time in Port Augusta there are many Commonwealth Railway employees who were transferred from Darwin following cyclone Tracy. This has placed a great strain on housing at Port Augusta which is the operational headquarters of the Commonwealth Railways. The Commonwealth Railways is finding great difficulty in supplying these people with accommodation. It cannot return them to Darwin because in many cases the work is not there for them. The Commonwealth Railways is providing work for these people in Port Augusta, but unfortunately there is no housing. This is another matter into which I hope the Minister will look. 
I point out that the Commonwealth Railways owns many of the houses in which its employees reside. In many cases the employees have worked on the railways all their working lives. They have developed the houses, but when they come to retirement or when they leave the job, because the houses are owned by the Commonwealth Railways they are required to vacate them. I think that the time has been reached in the larger cities when the Commonwealth Railways should move out of the field of being a housing authority in the areas in which the Housing Trust operates and allow the Trust to provide the housing. These employees, who have had long service with the railways have to move out of their homes and find somewhere else to live when they retire. I do not mean to say that the Commonwealth Railways tosses them out into the street. It does not do that; the employees are given a reasonable time in which to find other accommodation. I believe that an employee who has given long service should have the right to purchase the home in which he lives. 
There is one other matter that I wish to raise with the Minister. It is the question of noise pollution. It is a bad problem in any workshop, and the railway workshops in Port Augusta are no better than any other workshops in this regard. It is possible to carry out a program of noise suppression. This has been done in many places with the assistance of the National Acoustics Laboratory. Over the past few years the Commonwealth Railways has paid out more than $100,000 in compensation to employees who have lost their hearing. I should like the Minister to take up this matter with the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner to see whether we can institute a program of noise suppression in the workshops in Port Augusta. I feel that sufficient use has not been made of the National Acoustics Laboratories in its advisory capacity to overcome these problems. 
In the few minutes I have left I would like to mention some matters that were raised by the honourable member for Gippsland and the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond. The former Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland, said that when the Liberal-Country Party Government went out of office there was $2.4m ready to start on the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. There could have been $ 10m or $20m there but if there was no agreement with South Australia the work would not proceed. When the Liberal-Country Party Government went out of office there was no agreement between South Australia and the Commonwealth for that railway to proceed. It was not until this Government had been in office for some time that the impasse that existed while the LiberalCountry Party Government was in office was able to be resolved by the present Minister for Transport and the South Australian Minister, that agreements were able to be signed and the work was able to proceed. 
I was very interested to hear what the honourable member for Gippsland had to say about concrete sleepers. In October 1 972, prior to going out of office, the previous Government opened a new railway line from Port Augusta to Whyallaall welded track, all concrete sleepers. Within a few weeks the Bureau of Transport Economics brought down a report recommending concrete sleepers for replacement track between Port Pirie and Port Augusta. The honourable member mentioned replacement of sleepers. I hope that he was not referring to replacing a sleeper here and there because the replacement that is going on at the present time covers 60 miles of track. The previous Government could have replaced the whole lot with concrete sleepers but it did not. The Bureau of Transport Economics recommended that, the railway engineers recommended it, and despite that the then Minister decided to proceed with timber sleepers. At that time the Australian Labor Party held the seat of Forrest in Western Australia. I suspect that one of the reasons for the switch from concrete to timber, against the advice of experts, was a political consideration regarding the seat of Forrest. 
Why did the previous Government put concrete sleepers between Whyalla and Port Augusta? Perhaps he could tell me that. I feel that the former Minister is completely wrong. They are the facts at the present time. That particular piece of track is being relaid with concrete sleepers. On can drive down that track and see that those timber sleepers are being replaced with concrete. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister inform the House the present position on program approvals for State road works to be financed under the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act? What is the position regarding the State of South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Are negotiations under way concerning the investment by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority in the Cooper Basin natural gas producer, the Delhi Corporation? If so, what is the present state of those negotiations? 
I would like to congratulate the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on the Bill which he has introduced into the House. I think that we on this side of the House will fully support it because we feel that it does fill a very great need in the Australian community for proper trade union development. This recognition that there is a very great need to be filled is belated. The unions have never in the past been able to take their proper place in society, but under this Government and as a result of actions taken by the present Minister for Labor and Immigration the unions will certainly get the recognition to which they are entitled in this society. The unions themselves are part and parcel of our arbitration system. When the first Conciliation and Arbitration Act was passed in 1904, the place of the union was recognised in that Act, and I think that there was a recognition of the need to try to bring unions into the arbitration system and also to encourage people to become members of unions because for our arbitration and conciliation system to function it is essential that people be encouraged to join unions. 
Depite the more liberal approaches of the 2 previous speakers on the Opposition side, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  I cannot say that the Liberal and Country Party record in this field in the past has been one which would give the trade unions much cause to be very pleased with the attitudes adopted by those parties. Despite what the 2 honourable members I just mentioned have said, the record of the Liberal-Country Party government, over the years has been one of an anti-working class government and the legislation which was introduced was anti-union legislation. If we look back over the history of the last 60 or 70 years we will find that Governments of a similar nature have always adopted an antiworking class line. It is not all that long since the penal provisions were removed from the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In the 1960s we did see the use of the big stick, the imposition of fines and so forth to try to coerce unions into doing something which the rank and file were not prepared to do. The unions did resist this and as we are all aware there was quite a lot of industrial disputation at that time, but finally the confrontation did come in 1969 when I think that the then Liberal Government realised that it was going to get nowhere by using the big stick against the unions. From that time on we have seen the easing of the penal provisions until they were finally done away with. 
In those days there was a lack of emphasis on the conciliatory provisions in the Act. Practically all disputes were referred to arbitration. The unions either accepted what was brought down or they took the consequences. With the move these days towards a more enlightened approach to arbitration and conciliation matters we find that conciliation takes a much greater part in negotiations than it did previously. I think that more conciliation and collective bargaining calls for a greater degree of skill by the trade union officials and that the improvement of these skills by trade union officials should be one of the benefits derived from this Bill. 
In these days of increased collective bargaining and conciliation it is essential that the trade union official be an extremely competent person and be able to put forward the views of his union members fully so that he can do the job for which they have elected him. It is a fact that most trade union officials have learned by experience. In Australia we have a history of trade union officials who have come up through the ranks. Of course, some have entered this Parliament and some have even led this country- Ben Chifley is the prime example and there are many others. I think the Minister mentioned some of those people in his second reading speech- people who have a niche in Australian history. 
I mentioned that most trade union officials in Australia attain their positions through experience. Mostly they learn on the job and move up through the ranks. They probably start off as ordinary workmen in industry; they become interested in union affairs; they take a union delegate 's job; possibly they move from there to a position of regional delegate or State delegate of the council of their union; then to branch secretary, and so forth, and then into the federal field. I mentioned earlier that although these people have performed well in the past, we are reaching an age when, because of technological changes and the more complex nature of conciliation and arbitration, possibly more is required than that background of just job experience, although that experience is still extremely important. 
In most industrial disputes that arise in Australia most of the discussions are held at rank and file level. An honourable member mentioned the small shops a while ago, and we know that in most cases where there is a union delegate most discussions are about matters such as the honourable member mentioned- safety and provision of amenities. Most of these discussions are carried out at the job level and by the rank and file unionists; the chaps who work on the job and take on the responsibility of the union work in that particular job. It is only when the matter becomes a bit broader, probably a bit deeper and' more important, that a full time official assists that part time official. Of course, one of the most important issues is the matter of safety. With respect to job safety, in my experience I have seen many jobs where, unless there was union activity- and in many cases that meant stoppages of work and so forth- the employer would not care if the employee broke his neck or his leg, or whatever happened to him. In most cases pressure had to be put on the employer to ensure that he applied proper safety procedures. 
I think that aU these factors indicate that there is a greater need for union education of the ordinary rank and file members of the union. I think this is one of the things this Bill will achieve, because I think it states specifically that it will get into this field. A lot is made of the fact that sometimes unions are controlled by their officials and there is not much rank and file participation. I think one of the objectives of this Bill is to increase rank and file participation; to give the man at the grass roots level the chance to further his trade union education and to give him education in a much broader field so that he is a lot more competent to carry out the job for which his members have elected him. Of course, this grounding could possibly enable him to move up the ladder to where he can take on more responsible jobs. 
Although trade union education has been an ideal for quite some time it is only lately, in the last ten or twenty years, that we have seen it carried out to any degree. I know that in South Australia the Workers Education Association was set up. Although it has existed for many years I think it is only in the last 10 years that it has expanded its activities to include trade union courses to instruct trade union officials. I have found these courses very helpful. They were carried out by competent people and were of great help to all those trade union officials who were able to take advantage of the facilities offered by the Workers Education Association. The types of courses they ran were on the arbitration system, basic economics for the man in the street and the like. They have received full support, particularly from the South Australian Labor Government since it came into power. 
Some unions also have been interested in trade union education. But there are problems with some unions because, as the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech, there are over 300 unions in Australia and most of them are very small. Because they lack the resources they are not in a position to run trade union courses for their own members and, as a result, their members are disadvantaged. Of course, there are some larger unions, and I refer to the union that was mentioned in this House a few times today, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Since the amalgamation of the various metal unions the AMWU has become a fairly large union and because it is fairly large it probably has greater resources and can make much more use of those resources. But since the amalgamation this union has initiated courses mainly for delegates on the shop floor, the ordinary shop delegate and interested rank and file members. 
Much has been said about indoctrination and taking an ideological line and so forth. The regular schools which are run by this particular union are not confined to the capital cities. I know that in the industrial areas I represent this union runs regular courses for its shop delegates and interested trade unionists. I took the trouble to find out what some of its courses are about and I mention a few: The history of the trade union movement, organisational structure and how the union is run, decision making process from the shop floor upwards, duties and responsibilities of the officials and members, negotiating techniques and the development of arguments and the presentation of cases, public speaking, relationship between the unions and the community -I think that is a very important matter- workmen 's compensation, with emphasis, of course, on the procedures to be adopted in relation to that. There is another one which I consider to be very important, and that is the problems of groups such as migrants, women, apprentices and other such groups in the community. I do not think any honourable member could say any of those subjects is ideological. They are very important in assisting a trade unionist to take a full place in the Australian society. 
However, despite what the AMWU is doing and what the WEA in South Australia is doing, most plans to carry out this trade union education have been restricted by lack of finance. This, of course, is one of the reasons for this Bill. The Bill will certainly take a lot of the responsibility away from organisations. Although I know they will still be full participants in trade union education I do feel this Bill will allow them to get away from just one particular union group. The education scheme will be much broader and will allow all those people who are in organisations that cannot afford to run such activities to take a much fuller part. 
When I say that I support this Bill I can, I think, speak from experience as a rank and file trade union official and as a shop floor union official. Also, as I said earlier, I did have the opportunity of taking part in the Workers Educational Association courses in South Australia. As a part time union official I felt these courses were of great assistance to me and to all those people with whom I associated and who shared the same concern for the trade union .movement as I did. I mentioned earlier that one of the problems involved if we are to make full use of this educational scheme is the prolific number of unions we have in Australia- over 300 unionswith their small financial resources. We would hope that this Bill will allow these people to be catered for in a decent trade union training scheme. I fully support this Bill. It is a big advance for Australian trade unionists- one of which I am sure they will take every advantage and one which will allow the trade unions to take their rightful place in Australian society. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In view of the possible phasing down of operations at the Woomera Rocket Range in South Australia, have any investigations been carried out to see whether the facilities at Woomera can be utilized for other governmental activities. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the editorial in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of the 19th instant claiming that 65 000 people were receiving social security hand-outs to which they were not entitled and that those people had been obtaining money by false pretences? Is there any evidence anywhere to substantiate such an assertion? 
-I rise to support the measures before the House. I appreciate the concern of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who pointed out that if these redistribution proposals are agreed to the effect in respect of my electorate will be to increase it from 195 000 square miles to 325 000 square miles in area. But there are only an extra 2400 people in that additional area. It may be of interest to the honourable member for Angas that on the basis of the figures that I have been able to take out the majority of those people are Liberal Party supporters. The honourable member for Angas has been arguing about how Labor-held seats have been propped up. The proposed redistribution will certainly make the electorate of Grey a slightly more marginal seat. 
It is interesting to point out at this stage that the only 2 seats the rural area component of which is to be increased by these measures are those seats held by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and me. The electorate of Port Adelaide receives an extra 2 square miles, which incorporates the Gepps Cross abattoirs in Adelaide. I can appreciate the concern that the honourable member for Angas has stated about the difficulty of servicing a large electorate. I can certainly verify that there are difficulties. Those difficulties have existed for quite some time but I can say that as a result of the actions of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is sympathetic to our needs, the position of country members with large electorates has been made a great deal easier. It is hard to see how the present problems posed by the distances which must be travelled in those electorates can be solved but the Minister has certainly made provisions which make it much easier to service these large electorates. I refer to the provision of charter aircraft which make travel for members with large electorates a little easier. Sometimes a member can use up on one trip the funds allocated for charter flight purposes. It is our hope that at a later stage the Minister will look again at the matter of charter aircraft for members representing large electorates and will make it easier for those members to service those electorates. 
I do not think that we should say .hat because these electorates are large we should move completely away from the concept of one vote one value. Slight variations with respect to the number of electors in country electorates can be made. The previous Government provided for a 20 per cent variation above or below the quota. The Labor Government had reduced that variation to 10 per cent, which I think is a pretty fair margin. If that provision is coupled with the extra assistance provided to the member with the large electorate, I think that a member can service the needs of his electorate while, at the same time, the principle of one vote one value is adhered to as closely as possible. 
In the contribution of the honourable member for Angas he mentioned the affinity between the Barossa Valley and River Murray areas. I suppose that there is an affinity between those areas. I point out that in the terms of this redistribution the size of the electorate of Grey will be increased by some 130 000 square miles and that it is a fact, as anyone who knows the area will appreciate, that the 2400 additional electors who will be added to my electorate all live within possibly 50 miles of the eastern boundary of that electorate. Although 130 000 square miles will be added to my electorate, the problem of servicing these additional electors is not as great as it might appear to be. 
The question of affinity comes into this aspect. The north-west railway line is in the electorate of Wakefield. The Leigh Creek coal fields are in the electorate of Wakefield. The headquarters of the Commonwealth Railways is in Port Augusta, in the electorate of Grey. The employees of the Commonwealth Railways on the east-west line are, under the existing boundaries, in the electorate of Grey. The employees of the Commonwealth Railways on the north-south line are in the electorate of Wakefield. The business and operational headquarters of the Commonwealth Railways are in Port Augusta. An affinity exists between the railway employees already in the electorate of Grey and those railway employees who will, if these proposals are agreed to, come into that electorate. 
The Leigh Creek coal fields, under these proposals, will also come into my electorate. Those coal fields feed the powerhouse at Port Augusta. The railway line is used to transport the coal. Those working on the coal fields are employed by the Electricity Trust of South Australia, the operations of which are controlled from Port Augusta. So honourable members can see that most of those people who will be transferred into my electorate are people who already have close ties with Port Augusta. They are on a regular air route which can be serviced. They are on a regular railway service. Although a large additional area will be added to the electorate of Grey, the problems which will arise will not be as great as would appear from looking at the relevant map. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  did say that as a result of the redistribution proposals I will have more than 50 per cent of South Australia in my electorate. I must take him lo task on this point. Under the old boundaries, I have 5 1 per cent of the area of South Australia. Under the new proposals, that will increase to 85 per cent of the area of South Australia. But I do feel that with the problem not being as great as would appear on a map and the fact that we have a sympathetic Minister who is trying to assist those honourable members in country areas to give proper service to their electorates, this problem will not be as large as people think. As far as I am concerned, I certainly do not want another 130 000 square miles added to my electorate. But I am not daunted by the fact that if the redistribution proposal goes through the problems will increase slightly. I am prepared, as a Federal member, to accept that extra responsibility. I am sure that I could give the service that I try to give the electorate of Grey now. 
Getting away from my own electorate, we have heard quite a lot of wild and irrational statements made in this House today about gerrymandering. I agree with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who mentioned the over use of the word 'manipulation'. I think that that word is an insult to the distribution commissioners who have been appointed by the Government to carry out the redistributions. They have brought down what they consider to be fair proposals. I verify what has been said by other honourable members in that everybody who can be said to look at these proposals with an unbiased mind has come to the conclusion that they are the fairest electoral redistribution proposals that have ever been introduced. I did see an article which said that if the Liberal Party did not take the chance to accept these redistribution proposals, then it will probably be the end of the century before it will get a similar opportunity to that which is being offered now. 
Of course the Liberal Party is opposed to the redistribution proposals because it is a fair redistribution. Let us look at the Liberal Party's sorry record, because its record is sorry, particularly in South Australia. We are dealing with South Australian redistribution proposals just now. The record of the Liberal Party on electoral redistribution in South Australia is a sorry one. We know that in South Australia the Liberal Party had  Sir Thomas  Playford who was probably the king of gerrymandering.  Sir Thomas  Playford did hold that crown but I am afraid he has been uncrowned now by the Premier of Queensland. We saw for many years the very unbalanced electoral distribution in South Australia where, despite the fact that the Labor Party could obtain 54 per cent or 55 per cent of the vote, it was nowhere near able to govern. It reached the stage where even under the bad proposals that applied, it looked as if, with the gradual increase of the Labor Party vote, the Labor Party would be able to govern under the existing scheme, gerrymandered as it was. There were 3 provincial city seats which were held by the Labor Party. The Liberal Party in South Australia, to make sure that the Labor Party did not win at the elections attempted to do away with one of those seats. This move was defeated by the  Speaker  in the South Australian Parliament and a petition which I had a fair bit to do with organising. The move went right through the electorate; it was supported not only by people of Labor persuasion, but also by people of Liberal persuasion who could see that this was a pretty crook attitude. 
There was an occasion in the latter 1960s when the then Liberal Premier of South Australia Steele Hall, realised that the Liberal Party could not go on as it had been holding power by a pretty unbalanced distribution of seats. Of course Steele Hall did bring about a redistribution. Although it had many imperfections it was still an advance on the distribution which had applied previously. We know that he implemented his measures. We know that since then he has been out with the Liberal Party. I think that probably the greatest thing which the Liberal Party has held against him is the fact that he carried out a redistribution in South Australia which was a little fair. Because of that, he has been out of favour with the Liberal Party ever since. 
Perhaps I could refer to some of the remarks made by members of the National Country Party. It always amazes me to hear some of the remarks of members of the National Country Party from the leader down. They have been experts in gerrymandering. If we go through every State Parliament in Australia where the National Country Party operates, we will find that it has been the supporter of a small population for country seats and a large population for city seats. It has a pretty bad record as may be seen in Queensland today. Like other honourable members on the Government side, I just cannot understand why the Liberal Party is not prepared to support these proposals. Nobody could say that the proposals are unfair. With regard to South Australia, I think that the proposals might marginally favour someone in one seat or another. It was very interesting to hear the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  mention the Liberal Party submissions in South 
Australia that the existing boundaries of Grey should not be altered. The Liberal Party also added a rider about the Division of Grey with regard to the Redcliff site. The relevant portion of the Liberal Party submission reads: 
The point is that, if the project goes ahead - 
The Liberal Party is referring to the Redcliff project which has been withheld for probably 1 8 months to 2 years-  we are not talking in terms of minor increases in population, but rather, quite substantial increases in population. Thus the Grey Division should be below the quota. We have put it at -7.6 per cent. We believe this may be a fraction low and it could be raised by a 'trade-off' with the Wakefield Division by moving the boundary between them eastwards until the required numbers are gained. 
That is what the redistribution commissioners have done. Although the Liberal Party, in its submission states that Grey should remain unchanged, there is a qualification that, in order to bring the numbers up to date if the Redcliff project did not go ahead, the boundary could be moved eastwards. That is what took place. The distribution commissioners have followed the Liberal Party submission. In conclusion, I again condemn the attitude which both the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have taken. I particularly condemn the attitude of the National Country Party which, as I said earlier, has been the great protagonist of the gerrymander in the past. 
The attitude, of course, which we cannot understand is the Liberal Party attitude which is bolstering up this love for the gerrymander which the National Country Party so earnestly desires. Perhaps I could conclude by referring to an article in a Melbourne newspaper written by a prominent journalist relating to the National Country Party attitude towards redistribution. I paraphrase the article slightly but in effect it said that the National Country Party talking about electoral redistribution is like a backyard abortionist talking about extolling the virtues of motherhood. I fully support these proposals. I feel that the Liberal Party should support them. Anyone who took a fair look at the proposals would support them. I hope that the whole Parliament will support them. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. In October last year the Minister announced that it was anticipated that the Woomera rocket range would be run down and placed on a care and maintenance basis. Have there been any developments in this particular matter? 
-Once again we have heard members of the National Country Party huffing and bluffing. For years they have gone on supporting gerrymanders all over Australia. We now have proposals for the fairest redistribution ever carried out in this country. Some of the best political commentators in the country have described this as the best redistribution that has taken place. But once again the National Country Party takes up its old stance. It is using a smokescreen to try to hide the fairness of this redistribution. This smokescreen will not work, because I am sure that the Australian people will see from which side they are getting the fair go. 
For quite some time the National Country Party has talked about the poor people in country areas. The largest seats in Australia are held by Labor members. We do not hear the Labor members complaining about the difficulty of their job. They have the same problems as, in fact bigger problems than, the Country Party members have. What about the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)?  Do we hear him complaining? Of course we do not. Do we hear the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  complaining about what he has to do? Do we hear the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  complaining about what he has to do? And I do not complain about what I have to do. If this redistribution does take place, I will have extra burdens placed upon me; but I feel that the extra burdens are more than compensated for by the implementation of my belief in the concept of one vote one value. I will stick by my beliefs and not try to muck around with the Australian electoral system or maintain a system that gives the National Country Party about 17 or 18 per cent of the seats with about 9 per cent of the votes. 
This is a system which is completely unalanced and which the National Country Party has been able to perpetuate for quite some time. If members of the Liberal Party had any brains at all, they would not support that project; they would support the Government's proposals and see that the National Country Party was represented in this House according to the number of votes it received. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Just before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was talking about the unfair attitude that the National Country Party of Australia is taking to these electoral redistribution Bills. Members of the National Country Party always express their great concern about the people in the country areas, but it is very interesting to have a look at the situation in South Australia, which is represented by 22 members of Federal Parliament- 12 members of the House of Representatives and 10 senators. Out of those 22 members only two live in the country areas. One is myself and the other is  Senator Geoff  McLaren, a Labor senator. So much for those people in the Opposition who are so concerned about the country areas. When they are elected to Parliament the first thing they do is move to the cities. That has been amply proved by what has happened in South Australia. 
From some of the remarks that have been made in this debate one would think that it was the Minister for Services and Property who drew up these electoral boundaries. This is absolutely incorrect. Everybody knows that the boundaries were drawn up by reputable people, reputable public servants in the community. The proposed new boundaries in South Australia were drawn up by the present returning officer for that State, a former returning officer for that State and a third person, the South Australian SurveyorGeneral. Some quite scurrilous remarks have been made in the course of the debate on the proposed redistribution, not only today but also previously when these matters came before the Parliament. One accusation that I thought was rather low key was that the Minister for Services and Property took his holidays to go round Australia to. blow in the ears of the Distribution Commissioners. This is absolutely incorrect. I think it is an insult not only to the people who prepared the redistribution proposals in each State but also to the Minister. I think that the people who made those remarks should hang their heads in shame. 
I do not want to speak for too much longer. A lot has been said and accusations have been made against the Australian Labor Party on this issue. But we are following the line laid down. In line with the Constitution, proposals were put to this Parliament that there be a variation of the number of voters in electorates of not more than 10 per cent either way. At the time the Opposition saw fit to reject this proposal. It rejected it twice, giving the Government the basis for raising the issue at a double dissolution. About this time last year the Opposition reckoned that the Government's stocks were low and threw its hat into the ring. What a blue it made. Back came the Labor Party with the overwhelming majority of the Australian people voting for it. According to the provisions of the Constitution we reduced the variation in electorates to 10 per cent. This measure was approved at a Joint Sitting of this Parliament. The Government is now putting those proposals into operation. 
I condemn the attitude that has been taken by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. As a lot of people have said, including some of the commentators supporting the Opposition side, this is the fairest redistribution that has ever taken place in this country. I defy any South Australian member of the Liberal Party to say that the proposed new boundaries in South Australia do not advantage the Liberal Party. The electorate of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  will be made marginally stronger for him and that of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  will be made marginally weaker for him. My own seat is made marginally weaker for me. If anyone from South Australia says that the Labor Party gains out of the redistribution in that State he is talking through the top of his hat. 
The Liberal Party should have the guts to get up and say that it stands to gain out of this redistribution. But it  is  not going to do that. It is going to throw in its lot with the National Country Party. It is going to allow the tail to wag the dog again. The Liberal Party goes through life like this. It has allowed the Country Party to do this and it allowed the Democratic Labor Party to do it. It will not convince the Australian people that it is an alternative government by doing this. The Australian people are waking up to what the Liberal Party is trying to do. The Liberal Party should have the guts to examine the proposal in a fair and proper manner. It has been said by Malcolm Mackerras, who I understand is a supporter of the Liberal Party, that this is a fair distribution. The Liberal Party should support it. Honourable members on my right are trying to interject. I say to them that this is the fairest redistribution that has ever taken place in Australia but the Liberal Party again is going to knuckle down to the National Country Party and let the tail wag the dog. 
I conclude by issuing this warning: Last year when the Liberal Party thought it was going to win it took the Australian people to an election. It missed out. It continues on the line it is pursuing at its peril. If this matter becomes a double dissolution issue and goes to the Australian people, the people will make the decision, and the Liberal Party will be the loser. I hope the Liberal Party will stop allowing the Liberal Party dog to be wagged by the National Country Party tail. 
The previous Government certainly did discuss these matters, but when the Labor Party came to power there was nothing on the statute book in relation to these railway lines. There was no agreement with the State of South Australia about the provision of these 2 systems of trans-rail transport. It was not until such time as the present Government came to power that the Minister was able to successfully negotiate with the South Australian Government. The result is that both the projects are now in the course of being started. Those who had the opportunity a few weeks ago to go to Tarcoola saw the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  turn the first sod for the line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. That was tangible evidence of the progressive moves of this Government. Prior to our coming to power there was difficulty between South Australia and the Commonwealth about these particular lines. I know that the previous Minister for Transport and the South Australian authorities had discussed the difficulties for quite some time. There were some problems in South Australia. The South Australian Premier wanted to ensure that at least the line which brought coal from Leigh Creek Coalfield would not be affected by any Commonwealth takeover because it was the lifeblood of South Australia. 
These problems had not been resolved between the previous Government and the South Australian Government when the Labor Party came into office. It is a fact that once the Labor Party Government came to power it was able to negotiate successfully with the South Australian Government, with the result that these 2 proposals were able to proceed. As all honourable members are aware a start has been made on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs line and the other line will commence shortly. 
On this question of the Australian Government taking over the State railway systems, a few years ago both  Sir Robert  Askin and  Sir Henry  Bolte offered to hand over their State systems. Prior to the 1972 election the Prime Minister indicated that the Labor Party, if returned to office, would take up the offer to take over the 2 State systems, but when the Labor Party was elected to office and the offer to take over the systems was made to the States we found that we did not get any response from the Liberal States. The South Australian Government the Tasmanian Government and the Western Australian Government responded. Of course, a State by-election was held in South Australia. The Liberal-Country Party coalition came to power in that State and withdrew the offers that had been made prior to that time. Arrangements were more or less tossed aside and the Western Australian Government threw in with the other Liberal governments by not agreeing to a takeover of its railway system. My own opinion is that if any State stood to gain by a Commonwealth takeover of its railway system it would be Western Australia, but the people in power in that State allow their politics to colour everything they do including the decisions they take and because there was a Labor Government in Canberra at that time they withdrew all their offers. We will probably have to wait until a Labor government is returned to office in Western Australia before this matter can be taken up again. 
As to the proposed amalgamation of the South Australian railway system with the Australian National Railways, the South Australian Minister for Transport and the Federal Minister for Transport have held a number of conferences on this subject and I have had the opportunity of taking part in some of them myself. I know that they successfully thrashed this proposal out and agreement was reached. I am sure that after the discussions with the Australian Minister for Transport the South Australian Minister went away quite satisfied with what was achieved. Under the agreement the ANR will take over all the non-metropolitan railway systems of South Australia. This created some problems for the South Australian employers but both the State and the Australian governments were able to approach the major unions involved, the matter was thrashed out and agreement was reached not only on the question of the conditions of employment and whether employees under the State. systems be disadvantaged but also who would be the employer. It was determined that all employees of the South Australian railway system would become employees of the ANR. An assurance was given that in any amalgamation the employees would not be disadvantaged in respect of wage rates, long service leave, seniority rights in some cases and superannuation. Under the agreement although employees of the South Australian system will become employees of ANR they will work under the control of the South Australian Transport Authority mainly because of the necessity for that body to have control in co-ordinating other forms of transport in the metropolitan area of Adelaide. Under this arrangement the State authority will be able to co-ordinate road transport with rail transport. I think this is reasonable, although the employees will be under the direction of the Australian National Railways Commission. 
There will be union representation on the Commission. Therefore the interests of the employees will be taken into account in any decisions of the Commission. The very fact that a union official is to be appointed to the Commission means that the interests of union members will be looked after. There are probably still some problems to be thrashed out. It will take some time to sort them out. These problems probably lie at the union level. Sometimes they lie at the management level but I think that if there are any problems everybody concerned will sit down in a spirit of co-operation and thrash them out to everyone's satisfaction. 
The closure of country railway lines is a matter of particular interest to me because I know that employees of the South Australian Railways, particularly those in that part called the Lincoln Division, have some concern about their future position mainly because of the competition between rail and road transport. The line never was really first class. Quite some money has been spent on it in recent years but the employees are still concerned about their position. But I am very glad to say that the Minister has stated that, as the line is there, it will continue in operation. The Minister said in his second reading speech that before there is any closure of any lines the South Australian Minister for Transport will have a say, more or less, in any decision that is made. I certainly hope that this does take place because there are some lines in South Australia that, if there were an assessment of them, I doubt whether it would be decided that they were viable lines to keep in operation. 
I should like to refer now to how this Bill dovetails in with general Government policy. Our policy is that we should adopt a national transport system in a policy in which each major form of transport fulfills the task for which it is best suited. This is only logical. There are plenty of areas where goods can be carried much better by road transport than by rail. Also, in bulk carriage, there are many items, such as coal, iron ore and similar types of things, which logically can be best carried by rail. I do not think that road transport can in any way compete with the railways in the bulk cartage of cargo. But there are other areas, of course, where road transport can compete successfully with the railways. I think it is our policy - 
Where the characteristics of a particular form of motor transport are used to their best advantage. There are just a few matters on which I should like to conclude. The honourable member for Gippsland mentioned that there are 9 different types of motor car carrying wagons on the Australian railway systems and that those wagons might be for 9 different types of vehicles. From my knowledge of railways I think that this would be incorrect. Most of the car carrying vehicles on the Australian railway systems are basically similar in design, but different. I think the width between the wheels of a motor car governs the design of car carrying vehicles. I think they are all standard in that respect and that a Holden, a Ford, a Valiant or any other vehicle can be put on them. But the fact is that they are all different in design and they are all different in such a way that sometimes they cannot be used on other systems; the) have different braking systems and so forth. So I do not think the comments of the honourable member for Gippsland on that were quite valid. 
The honourable member made reference also to the urban transport system in Australia. I understand from the Minister for Transport that previously, when the honourable member for Gippsland was the Minister for Transport, the States did approach the Commonwealth Government to get the Bureau of Transport Economics to carry out studies on urban transport and how it could be improved. Despite these approaches to the Liberal-Country Party Government these matters were resisted. It was left until the Labor Government came to power before any positive moves were made in this field. I think we have seen the result of this delay, just as we have seen the problems that have arisen with the railways in Australia over the last few years. There are insufficient railway vehicles to carry the stock that is offered and, as a result, the railways lost many millions of dollars last year. One of the actions of the present Government was to decide to provide 1300 new railway wagons to be loaned to the States, with the provision that, if more were required, further consideration would be given. 
I think that the best thing that has ever happened to the railway systems of Australia was the election of the Labor Government in 1972. I hope that such projects as the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway and the Adelaide-Crystal Brook standardisation, will link up every capital city throughout Australia. Also, 1300 new wagons will be provided for interstate use on the establishment of the Australian National Railways Commission. All these matters augur well for the transport industry and are a credit to the Minister who introduced them. 
I shall answer a couple of matters raised by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  He referred to 3 shipyards which he blames the Labor Government for closing. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  certainly gave the facts as far as the 2 Queensland shipbuilding yards are concerned. The other yard mentioned was the Adelaide Ship Construction Company. Perhaps I can enlighten the House on a few facts about that company. It is true that this yard closed down in early 1973. It is obvious that there were problems before that and that the company intended to close the yard down. The owners of the yard fully intended to phase out operations and to close it down early in 1973. At the time there was a 4000 ton ship to be built at the Whyalla yards for one of the major shareholders in the Adelaide Ship Construction company. 
A proposal was put forward that work on the 4000 ton ship which was to be built at the Whyalla yards be transferred to the Adelaide Ship Construction yards. The company would not agree to that proposition. At least this would have saved that shipyard for some time and given it a chance probably to rationalise its activities and still be a viable proposition. But the company decided not to go ahead with this proposition. As a result the yard closed down early in 1973. I fail to comprehend how the Opposition can say that these yards ran into trouble in early 1973 because of the fault of the Government which was elected late in 1972. I have some figures here which were given to a union deputation which came over from Adelaide on the matter of the Adelaide Ship Construction company. They were given to me by the Minister. 
Of 33 ships on order at that time 19 were in a range which could have been handled by the Adelaide Ship Construction company but the company did not tender for one of those ships. This is something which proves what I said earlier, that is, that the company was at no time interested in carrying on. All it wanted was the excuse to get out and that is what it did. It is completely dishonest for the Opposition now to say it was the Labor Government which forced the closure of this yard. That is completely untrue. 
The honourable member for Gippsland made a number of remarks about Australia's moving into the field of overseas trade. It is a fact that until the present time Australia has carried less than 1 per cent of its trade in Australian ships. This Government has taken the bull by the horns. It has taken steps to ensure that Australia will carry in Australian ships its fair share of trade. While it was not expected that this could be achieved overnight opportunities for expanding overseas and coastal shipping were examined in the very early stages of the new Labor Government. As a result, proposals have been successfully developed to the point where orders for several new ships have been placed both locally and overseas. 
Some of the measures taken by the Government to date have resulted in increased participation in the dry bulk and oil tanker trades. The Government has given its approval for the Australian National Line to order two 120 000 dead weight tonne carriers from Swedish yards and two 137 000 dead weight tonne bulk carriers from German shipyards. These ships are of a size which is too large for Australian shipyards to handle. Our largest shipyard is Whyalla and I think its maximum is about 85 000 tonnes. These vessels will be delivered in 1976 and 1977 and will be used in the carriage of iron ore to Japan. With these bulk carriers, which represent an investment of more than $ 100m, Australia 's bulk carrier fleet engaged in the carriage of our mineral exports will exceed half a million tonnes. These vessels will be capable of carrying between 5 million and 6 million tonnes of ore to Japan a year, that is, 10 per cent of the trade. At present we carry less than 1 per cent. The maintenance of crude oil supplies from overseas is of major importance. The Australian Government is entirely dependent upon foreign flag ships for the maintenance of these imports. 
I know the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  wants to close the debate but I point out that it is a fact that Australia is moving into the tanker trade. It is buying a fleet of 6 vessels of between 65 000 and 70 000 dead weight tonnes. These will certainly assist in carrying our oil imports and will save Australia from becoming completely dependent on overseas ships to carry its essential commodities. This Government has taken the bull by the horns by introducing a new shipping pokey. I hope it will ensure a long range future for the Australian industry and will see our shipyards get to the stage where they are completely viable and capable of competing with overseas shipping, and that Australia will have a national shipping line of which it can be proud. 
-I shall pick up a few points in relation to the speech made by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  In the first place he mentioned that the Railways Agreement (South Australian) Bill will provide Don Dunstan with help so that he can overcome his deficit. When one sees the deficit which exists in the various States governed by the Liberal Party one thinks that no doubt such governments would like to get their hands on this money. Another point which the former Minister made was when he criticised the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  The honourable member said that the powers which the Commonwealth has do not mean a thing because the State can veto anything that takes place. That was rather a contradiction by the honourable member for Gippsland. When we were discussing the roads legislation in this place not so long ago the honourable member said that the State Minister was required to furnish programs and so forth to the Federal Minister to get finance, and he said that the Federal Minister would become a dictator. The Federal Minister can discuss with the State Minister rationally over the table in a give and take situation. They may decide that if they do not reach agreement they can go to arbitration. 
I think it is agreed that most State railway lines cannot be closed without the agreement of the State. I think that is quite reasonable. In part of my electorate the Commonwealth railway system carries the coal down to serve the power houses in the northern Spencer Gulf region. There must be some way of ensuring that the railway is kept open. It is vital to South Australia. This was a point of argument previously between the Commonwealth and the State. Another point I would like to mention in talking about the States offering their railway systems to the Commonwealth is that the first two premiers to make this offer were the Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, and the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, both of whom had problems with their railway systems. Both States have massive deficits and the railways are in a hopeless situation. The only way to solve the problems to my way of thinking, is by a centralised approach to railway systems so that we can get the maximum amount of use out of our railway systems. 
I would like to touch on a few other matters connected with the Bill. We all know what happened with this Bill. It was introduced into this House and passed. Enabling legislation was introduced in the South Australian Parliament where it was passed in the Lower House and was rejected in the Upper House. As a result the Premier of South Australia decided to hold an election on this issue. We all know the result. People can say that Labor lost seats in South Australia. We certainly lost 2 country seats and also one provincial seat, but nobody can tell me that the people of Port Pirie did not vote for the takeover of the railway system. What about the members of the Liberal Movement, and the people who supported the Liberal Movement which was in favour of the amalgamation of the railway systems. I think that Don Dunstan on being returned to office can say that he has a clear mandate from the South Australian people to go ahead with the Agreement. The result is that the Bill has passed the Lower House and the Upper House in South Australia and the Agreement comes back to this House today for our ratification. I am sure that this legislation will pass both Houses of this Parliament. 
I would like to raise a few other matters with the Minister. My electorate has quite a number of railwaymen. It has part of the present South Australian railway system and contains about 1000 miles of the old Commonwealth Railways system. We realise that it will take some time for the procedures for combining the 2 systems to be worked out. It could possibly take 12 months. Of course there will be problems. I notice that the Minister spoke in his second reading speech of proclaiming a date for amalgamation some time hence after the procedures have been worked out. 
One thing is causing some concern in the area. I realise there are always people who back away from change. They are frightened that change will bring some alteration to their position and that they possibly will be disadvantaged by it. It is a fact that both the State Minister for Transport and the Australian Minister for Transport have given assurances to the employees of both railways systems that they certainly will not be disadvantaged by what takes place. Of course this has not allayed the fears of quite a number of people. It is a fact that anybody who knows the Commonwealth Railway system appreciates the terrific amount of capital investment that Commonwealth Railways has in the Port Augusta area, with its workshops, administrative offices and so forth. It is quite unlikely that any alteration to railway procedures will drastically affect that area. The installations there will not close right up. Too much is involved. 
The Minister has stated he looked upon Port Augusta as possibly the Chicago of Australia. We certainly hope that some development along those lines takes place. It is obvious that the Government will ensure that the facilities- they are quite modern and include probably the most modern diesel electric locomotive maintenance shop in Australia- will be utilised. There is still concern by some of the Commonwealth Railways employees about what the future holds, not so much as to whether they will have a job but rather as to whether their lines of promotion will be preserved and whether they will be required to move from, say, Port Augusta to Adelaide or wherever the headquarters of the Australian National Railways are to be located. We certainly hope that once the Commission has been set up- 7 people will be appointed to the Commissionpositive and clear decisions can be given so that those railway people will know where they are going. 
One other problem that arises is the question of Port Pirie. Port Pirie has to face 2 problems. One is the effect, if any, that the takeover will have on the railway employees in Port Pirie. What effect will the takeover have on the job opportunities of employees of the Australian National Railways or former employees of the South Australian railways? Also there is the question of the standardisation of the railway line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook. I feel that 2 problems face the people of Port Pirie and they are causing some concern to the local people and to the local member of Parliament. He recently took a deputation down to see the State Minister for Transport. Certain discussions took place and certain suggestions were made. I understand that the State Minister is suggesting that a committee be set up representing the Australian National Railways and various people in the area and so on, to ensure that, if any move takes place in the area, the jobs of people there at present, many of whom own homes, are protected. 
As to the Australian National Railways employees in the area, people are concerned at the possible effect the amalgamation will have on the dining car facilities which are now serviced out of Port Pirie. My understanding is that neither the Minister not the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner has indicated at any time that any alteration will be made to the existing services at Port Pirie. Port Pirie services dining car crews on the east-west line and also on the north-south line to Alice Springs. As I said, these are a few of the things to which I would like the Minister to give some attention. Some people, not without good reason, are possibly getting a little apprehensive. I feel that the only way this can be overcome is by the Minister coming out with some forthright statements as to what the future holds for these people. 
One matter I intended raising was mentioned by the honourable member for Gippsland. I refer to the question of ownership of the co-operative bulk handling facilities following the amalgamation. I have noted quite recently that this seems to be causing some concern in the rural areas. It is causing concern in the Port Lincoln division of my electorate where there are quite a number of silos which, to the best of my knowledge, are all on railway property. Apparently they have been built with money provided through the co-operatives. I would like the Minister, if he would, to have a look at this question to see whether we can give these organisations a positive answer as to how their co-operative bulk handling facilities will fare in the takeover. 
That is all right. I am sure the Minister will give us an answer. Do not get concerned. I am sure quite a number of points which the honourable member for Gippsland has raised will be ably answered by the Minister. The people of South Australia support the Bill. It is a step in the right direction, as was the takeover of the Tasmanian railways. I am sure that as time goes on it will be like Medibank. Everybody kept out of Medibank until they saw the scheme probably would succeed. We hope that in the future the other States which are now so adamant about not coming into a national railway system will change their minds and come in and join the Australian National Railways. I fully support the Bill. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen claims by some State Transport Ministers that the crisis in State public transport systems is the fault of the Australian Government? Are these claims correct? Is the Australian Government still prepared to accept the transfer of these systems? 
-It is rather amazing to find that the Liberal Party after 23 years in government and a few years in opposition has now suddenly come forward with ideas such as those that were put forward by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  who has just resumed his seat. The twice yearly increase in the pension according to movements in the consumer price index mentioned by the honourable member is certainly something new so far as the Liberals are concerned. They had their opportunity for 23 years to show that they were concerned about the less fortunate people in society and they did not take that option. In fact the Henderson report that has come out in the last few days is an indictment of the Liberals because it deals mainly with the period during which that Party was in government. 
I rise to support the Budget and to oppose the amendment. The Budget is introduced in a set of economic circumstances that we on this side of the House do not like. But the fact is that we are facing circumstances that are facing every western nation. We are facing the 2 grave problems of inflation and unemployment. The general strategy of this Budget is to try to overcome those 2 problems. The course taken by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  proposes that there shall be no excesses either way. I am sure that the Treasurer hopes that by steering that middle course he will be successful and that we will see a return to stability in Australia and, we would hope, throughout the world so that the ideas and P9h.cies of the Labor Government can be carried forth and not be restricted as they have been this year. 
As I have said, the aim of the Budget is to bring Australia back to an even keel in conjunction with the other western nations. It aims to ensure that we maintain all the gains that have been made. There have been many gains in the 3 years that this Government has been in power. There have been gains in the approach to the payment of pensions and payments to the less fortunate in society. The Government has taken away some of the moral penalties that existed in regard to unmarried mothers. It has also taken away some of the moral penalties affecting Class A, Class B and Class C widows. It has done away with what were actually moral penalties. It has endeavoured to do away with the discriminations that exist. It has certainly tried to assist the less fortunate in the community 
Among the first items that we attacked on coming to government were the problems that had faced outback children for many years. We introduced the isolated children's scholarship. This was something which the previous Government had rejected completely in the many years it was in power. On coming to power we altered the priorities. We hope that with the return to stability that will result from this Budget we will be able to continue with these priorities. I am sure that people who have read even an outline of the Henderson report on poverty which has been released in the last few days will realise that the priorities set by this Government are in the correct order. I think in some ways our policies have pre-empted some of the matters mentioned in the Henderson report. We certainly hope that as a result of a study of the report and bearing in mind our own humanitarian aims we can give effect to much of what is contained in the report. 
There are a very many other areas in which this Government can take a great deal of pride. One is the field of education. When we came to power I think the allocation for education was just over $200m a year. This financial year it will increase to $ 1,908m, an increase of $263m over last year. Whilst the Government will not be able to give effect this year to its triennium plans, sufficient money has been allocated to ensure that the progress that has been made in education will continue. The various education commissions have been established in the period that we have been in office and they have made recommendations. The Government has taken some extremely positive steps to put those recommendations into operation. We hope that our program will continue in this way. These initiatives in the education field have enabled the provision of a greatly increased number of buildings, greater facilities, better staffing in schools and a general uplifting in the whole area of education. Education is certainly one of the main goals of this Government. Despite the restrictions that had to be imposed by the Budget, the Government has been able to increase its allocation and to keep moving towards an achievement of its aims. We know that all the problems of education will not be solved this year, but we know that as a result of the policies laid down by the Government we will be moving towards those solutions. It is a fact that capital expenditure on education will be limited in this financial year, but the recurrent expenditure will be kept at its real value so that our aims can be achieved. 
One area in which there has been a big advance by this Government is in the care and education of young children in our society. There has been an allocation of $74m in the Budget for this purpose. We have shown the previous Government what can be done in this area. I know that in my own area allocations of finance have been made towards the establishment of child care centres. There is a child care centre now in the course of construction in the town in which I live. We hope that in a few months time we will be able to see it in operation. There are also a number of kindergartens in the area, many of which have received assistance through the cooperation of the State committees that have been set up. The funding for these institutions is coming from the Federal Government. A number of the kindergartens are awaiting the outcome of this Budget to ascertain whether they would receive some assistance so that they could provide for the younger people in the society the education that has been lacking for so long. This, of course, is another example of the priorities that this Government sets in its objectives. 
Much has been said about Medibank. I know that I am probably only repeating what has been said many times over, but it is a fact that this Government is allocating this year $ 1,445m towards the cost of Medibank. I have seen some criticism that this is a waste. I read an editorial in one of my papers not so long ago to which I replied. I pointed out that in stating that the money spent on Medibank was wasteful they were forgetting that if the old scheme was still in operation the Government would be up for $ 1,000m, in addition to which the vast majority of people would be contributing to private insurance funds. They are now relieved of that liability. I suppose that a family man would save about $5 a week. 
One area that has again received some attentionthis is another of the new priorities set by this Government- is assistance to community health centres. The Budget allocates $65 m under the community health program. Of course this program has significance in my electorate because I represent some of the more remote areas of South Australia. I am very pleased that the Australian Government, which is providing most of the finance, in conjunction with the South Australian Government has been able to establish community health centres in areas where previously health care services were either practically non-existent or left much to be desired. One area in which we would anticipate the official opening of a community health centre soon is the opal mining centre of Coober Pedy which is an isolated community with a population of up to 4000 people situated about 600 miles north-west of Adelaide. Previously this town was serviced by a small hospital run by quite dedicated sisters of the Australian Inland Mission and the Flying Doctor Service. It is impossible to expect these nursing sisters to handle the medical problems in a centre of that size. The Government in conjunction with the State Government provided a community health centre in this area. The building is finished and I would hope that we would have the pleasure of having the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to perform the opening in the near future. 
Another area of need is Ceduna which is the last stop-off place for motorists travelling on the Eyre Highway to Western Australia. This town which has a population of just under 3000 people is the last point for about 600 miles where medical attention is available. A hospital was established there but the Australian Government, again in conjunction with the State Government, will provide the bulk of the finance to establish a community health centre in that area. It is a very impressive set up. It was opened by the Federal Minister for Health about 2 months ago and it should help to overcome the health needs of that community. It does more than look after the people in the immediate vicinity of Ceduna. There are 2 groups of Aboriginal people in the area- one about 20 miles out and the other about 180 miles out. The centre has a mobile servicing unit attached to it which will be able to visit the areas a bit further out in order to give the people in those areas a decent health service. Also it acts as the normal community welfare office and provides most of the community needs of the people in the area. 
In addition to those 2 centres there is a larger centre being built at Port Lincoln and smaller centres in a number of other country towns in the area. The $65m contained in the Budget will allow this very worthy aim of the Labor Government to continue to provide these medical services and to ensure that the medical needs of the people in the more remote areas are catered for. Also included in the Budget is an amount of $108m for the hospitals development program. We know that with Medibank certain agreements were reached between the Australian Government and the States about assistance for the States' hospital programs. The States' hospital programs will benefit from this $108m. The figures for social security have been mentioned over and over again. We aU know that this is the sixth time that the age pension has risen since this Government came to office. Despite what the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bendigo, said, it is in line with what the Government promised. The Government promised 2 rises every year until the pension reached 25 per cent of the average weekly wage. It is very close to it at the present time, as anyone who works it out will find. The Government has not only increased the standard rate of pensions and unemployment benefits but it has also increased the amount allowed for children. Repatriation benefits have also been increased, as I think the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  mentioned. 
I would like to refer to my own area again. My electorate has benefited greatly since the Labor Government came to office in 1972. I keep records of all types of grants that are made within my electorate. I hope that I have noted them aU but no doubt there are a few that I have missed. The grants total $10,561,000. Of course, they are spread over various areas in the electorate. First of aU there are grants for area improvement programs. The untied grant to the councils from the Grants Commission last year amounted to $750,000 and this year, on the passing of the Budget, will amount to $980,000. The grants include area improvement program grants, Grants Commission grants, Regional Employment Development scheme grants and grants for the construction of old folks homes. Previous governments provided a subsidy of $2 for $1 for these types of homes. Since the Labor Government came to power the subsidy has been increased to $4 for $1. Grants have been made for tourism and recreation. There has been an allocation from the Australian Government for community health centres and there have been some educational grants. 
The money has gone to town and district counCils I have not broken down the figures for the district councils but there were RED grants to various State government departments- to sporting bodies, to schools, to historical societies, to agricultural show organisations and to similar organisations. Let me refer to the four main provincial cities in my electorate. In Whyalla the total of all types of grants received was $2,576,000, in Port Pirie $3,055,000, in Port Lincoln $1,637,000 and in Port Augusta $1,657,000. In addition an amount was allocated to the small district councils in the rural areas. The total comes to over $10.5m. Most of these grants, with the possible exception of grants to the old folks homes, would be new initiatives taken by this Government. The people of the electorate of Grey have much for which to thank this Government. It has helped many of these organisations to do things that they would otherwise have been unable to do. It has certainly helped the town corporations and district coun.Cils to carry out projects that they would not have been able to carry out using their own resources. It is a fact that in a number of areas the amount received in these grants is  Vh.  to 2 times the amount of their general rate revenue. So in my particular area the local government bodies, the sporting bodies and the various other bodies that make up the community have much for which to thank the Labor Government. 
I turn now to the question of road transport. My electorate plays an important part in transport because at the present time the main link between west and east and the main link between north and south go through the electorate. Since the establishment of the national roads program by this Government the Australian Government has taken the financial responsibility for completing those 2 main roads. I heard some criticism the other night from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  When my Party was in Opposition I asked the then Minister for Transport on a number of occasions about these 2 roads and he said that South Australia received so much and that it could set its own priorities. What he really meant was that South Australia had to build the roads for all the people of the Northern Territory and all the people of Western Australia because it has been proved that most of the people who use those 2 roads do not emanate from South Australia. Since the Australian Government took over responsibility for the national roads program great progress has been made on the Eyre Highway, and we hope very shortly to see progress on the Stuart Highway. 
An amount of $ 138m has been allocated to the States under the urban road transport assistance agreement. The allocation for shipping includes $lm towards the operation of the  Empress of Australia  to Tasmania. A total of $445m is allocated this year for roads. In addition to the allocations in the Budget for upgrading our present transport system there is assistance to the rural industries. This Government introduced the minimum reserve price plan for wool, providing 250c per clean kilo for 2 1 micron wool. It has allocated an amount of $80m to help the Australian Wool Corporation carry cany this scheme out. I know that the Government has been criticised for the situation in the beef industry, but the Government is providing $ 19.6m for the joint Australian and State government scheme for carry-on finance at concessional rates of interest, with an extra $8m available if required. A total of $50m has been allocated for rural reconstruction. 
I have just touched on a few of the points contained in the Budget. I believe that the problems which this Government is facing are similar to the problems faced by the governments of all the western nations. The Treasurer has endeavoured to steer a middle course- one that does not go to excesses one way or the other. He has not tried to bring down inflation in one jump or to send it sky high in one jump. He is trying to take the middle course so that the programs built into the Budget will be allowed to take their course. We hope that in 6 months time we will see an improvement in the present conditions. We have seen indications in a couple of industries that they are getting back on their feet. I read an article the other day on the textile industry. Mention was made also of the building industry. These 2 industries are starting to get back on their feet. We would hope that this upturn will continue and that in a few months time, by the beginning of next year, we will see a reduction in the number of persons unemployed, a slowing down in the rate of inflation and a return to the stable conditions which the Australian people want. I feel that the aim of this Budget is to achieve those ends and, for that fact alone, it deserves the support of all members of this House. I urge honourable members to support the Budget and to reject the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Following the decision of the Petro-Chemical Consortium not to proceed with the establishment of a petro-chemical plant at Redcliffs, South Australia, are any proposals being examined to utilise the liquid gas from the Moomba and Gildgealpa gas fields that would have been used in the Redcliffs project. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the total of the grants made by the Interim Schools Commission and the Schools Commission to educational institutions in the Electoral Division of Grey. 
What educational institutions received grants. 
3 ) What were the amounts of the individual grants. 
For what purposes were the grants made. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to reports that 
Japanese steel mills have refused to employ 4 bulk carriers now on order by the Australian National Line in the transport of iron ore and coal between Australia and Japan? Are these reports correct? If so, what steps are being taken by the Minister to ensure that these ships are used in our foreign trade to bring about a higher percentage of trade carried in Australian owned and manned ships? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In cases where chlorine is added to water supplies for health reasons, such as the water supplied to the northern Spencer Gulf area of South Australia, has any research been carried out as to any possible medical side effects from the use of this method of protection of water supplies. 
I wish to speak to the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department. A great deal of criticism has come from the increase in postal rates and telephone charges. The Royal Commission headed by  Sir John  Vernon which inquired into the Australian Post Office recommended that the activities of the Postmaster-General's Department be split into 2 sections, one dealing with telecommunications and the other with postal services. One of the responsibilities of those 2 bodies was to put their operations on a sound financial basis. Although the telecommunications operations previously may have been able to operate in this way, certainly the postal operations did not. How long were the Australian people to continue to subsidise the postal services to the extent that they did? This was probably one of the questions which exercised the mind of that Royal Commission. We all regret that these increased charges have been imposed. We would hope that these charges will enable the 2 commissions to achieve a sound financial footing and that they will be able to carry on future operations without any excessive increases in service charges. 
One matter that I would like to mention which has not been mentioned in this debate but to which reference has been made on a number of occasions- I think it was mentioned in the discussions on the estimates of the Department of the Media- is the increased costs in respect of country newspapers. I do not know what has happened in country areas from which other honourable members come. Let me explain what has occurred in my electorate. There were 9 country newspapers there. One at Woomera was run by the Department of Defence, so I will ignore it. The other 8 newspapers are now run by 2 groups whereas previously they were printed in the areas in which they were distributed. Any newspaper printed in an outside area was posted to its subscribers. 
With the advent of offset printing machines and other new techniques, introduced by these groups, one group now owns four and possibly five of the newspapers in my electorate while the other group owns at least 2 of those newspapers. Previously one of the newspapers was printed in a small town in which it was distributed. That town is many miles distant from the town in which that newspaper is now printed. Because that newspaper is now printed so far away, it is posted and its distribution over the long distance involved must be undertaken by and is the responsibility of the postal service. Difficulty arises because the Post Office becomes the distributor of the newspaper printed outside the area to which it is delivered. This is a bit rough as the distance is quite great. When we speak about country newspapers, we must look at the whole situation to find out what is a fair proposition. 
Mention has been made in the current debate of telephone connections. I know that in 1 970-7 1 the former Government did propose a scheme by which it would provide free of charge the first 15 miles of a telephone line. To my way of thinking, that was an airy-fairy proposition. My view was verified by officers of the Postmaster-General's Department, as it then was. All that this proposal did was to encourage people to seek to have telephones connected. Previously, because of the distance involved, they had no intention of seeking a telephone service. But because of the new factors involved- because they thought that the Government would provide 15 miles of telephone free- they decided that they would apply for a telephone service. The figures that I was able to obtain from the Department revealed that it would have cost about $10,000 to provide 10 miles to 15 miles of telephone line free of charge. 
I agree that a need exists for these services. I represent a large electorate. I had referred to me a terrific number of problems which were related to the old Postmaster-General's Department. I can appreciate the problems and difficulties of communication experienced by people in these areas. But I do not think anybody can say that a government is harsh if it breaks down a subsidy of that order. When this Government came to office, it had a look at this scheme. There was a problem in my own electorate. When I checked I found that the number of rural telephone connections made in one year was thirty-four. Honourable members can appreciate the number of people who applied to take advantage of the free 15 miles of telephone line. These people had to wait a considerable period. When I checked a few years ago I found that the then Department was talking of these people obtaining their connections in 1976 or 1 977. 
When it came to office, the present Government took action which was more realistic. It said that it would provide the first 8 kilometres of telephone line free of charge. The figures which I have been given show that the cost of providing that reduced distance of telephone line is $2,560 a kilometre. I think that that is not a bad form of assistance to be given by the Government in providing country telephone services. I know that there are people who are outside the 8-kilometre limit. But is it fair to ask the Government to provide the additional line required? I do not know. I leave that matter to the judgment of others. But I do believe that we would be tying up resources if expenditure were directed to an activity such as this. The actual cost, even today, of providing country telephone services is subsidised to the extent of 8 kilometres of telephone line provided free of charge. The figures with which I have been provided show a subsidy of $320 a kilometre. Eight kilometres of telephone line will be provided free. Honourable members can work out the total cost in each case for themselves. 
With the provision of more automatic telephone exchanges in country areas have come increased complaints about costs. Under the old manual system, a telephone line could be run along a fence or through trees. The cost of establishing an automatic telephone service is pretty considerable as first class lines are required. I do not claim to be an expert in this field. But I am informed that, if one line comes down in an automatic telephone exchange system, this can put the whole of that exchange out of service, so the line must be in first class order. 
When we are considering the subject of costs, we must look at the cost of establishing some of these country telephone exchanges. I sympathise with the people who live in these areas but the costs involved in providing these services must be realised. I remember that about 18 months ago I had some figures taken out about the cost of automatic telephone exchanges established in my electorate. One of those- a small country automatic exchange for 22 subscribers- cost $73,000. The establishment of the exchange in that specific area cost an additional $3,300 per subscriber. It is all right to say what we should do for people in these country areas. I think that I appreciate the needs of people in these electorates more than do members of the National Country Party who are trying to interject I appreciate the problems that people living in these areas face, but at the same time we cannot ignore the cost that is involved in establishing these facilities. We would certainly hope that as a result of improvements in technology coming on the market the costs of providing communications to people in these areas will be reduced. I would hope that the adoption of improvements in technology of this type will be not too far away so that we may bring to the people who live in these areas the benefits of modern day living for their enjoyment. 
One honourable member mentioned the bulk mailing of postal items to New Zealand and the saving in charges that could be achieved. I wonder whether the people who take this action are the same people who use courier services in Sydney and Melbourne and whether they would provide such services in some areas of the outbackfor instance, to some stations in my electoratewhere there would be no profit whatsoever in providing runs through those stations. No profit would be made from them but there has to be some balancing. You can run letters around the heart of Melbourne or Sydney at a pretty cheap rate but you cannot run them around the countryside at the same cost. I think the last place where we will ever see private courier services is the outback country areas. 
My time in this debate is just about up, but there is one thing which I do wish to raise and I hope that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  will take it up with the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop).  I have raised it with him before. It is something that is causing concern in my electorate. Emergency fire fighting services are established throughout country areas, and they operate on a voluntary basis. In most cases they receive some State government subsidies but they raise money from their own activities to provide their own equipment and so on. Up to date it appears as though part of their telephone concessions will be removed. I ask the Minister, when reporting back to the Postmaster-General, to raise the question of telephone concessions that did apply to emergency fire fighting services in South Australia. I do not doubt that this applies to services in the other States too. I think these services should have these telephone concessions restored. If not, I ask that the needs of these services be referred to other Government departments, if necessary, such as the Department of Environment, which possibly could ascertain whether they could give some assistance to these services. As far as I know these services will lose some of their telephone concessions and I ask that this request be considered. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. It is supplementary to a question that was asked yesterday. I ask: If the Australian Legal Aid Office were abolished, as promised by the Leader of the Opposition, to whom would the more than 10 000 people in need per month turn for legal advice and legal assistance? Where would the 4000 who seek help every month from the ALAO in family law matters get that help? How would environmental groups without adequate financial support be assured of equal access to the law? Who would ensure that the case of the low income tenant would get adequate representation in the courts? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Housing and Construction. What impact will there be on the housing and construction industry as a result of the passage of the Budget being delayed? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How much has been paid to Australian National Railways employees by way of compensation for loss of hearing due to noise. 
How much has been paid out by the Railways for providing compensated employees with hearing aids. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that the Australian Legal Aid Offices proposed for Whyalla and Port Pirie in South Australia will be established. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to reports that the former Liberal Premier of South Australia,  Sir Thomas  Playford, has urged that the Senate should pass the Budget? Is this not a further indication of the erosion of support from the Opposition side of politics for the blatant grab for power by the Leader of the Opposition? As it is also reported that  Sir Thomas  Playford 's message was conveyed to  Senator Laucke  of South Australia, can the Prime Minister say whether conventions were adhered to on the initial appointment of  Senator Laucke  to the Senate when he replaced the late  Senator Hannaford? 
asked the Minister for Environ-, ment, upon notice: 
What is the present position regarding the proposals to establish a national park on Coffin Bay Peninsula, South Australia. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the public sector construction activity has been the main supporting influence on the non-dwelling building industry during 1975? Has this been further reduced from Budget levels by the Liberal-National Country Party Government's spending cuts including the apparent deferral of 250 projects valued at $130m in the next financial year? What is the reason for this when there is unemployment of men and under-employment of resources in the building industry? 
-I also claim to have been misrepresented. I was in Parliament House until well after the House rose on Thursday night. Like the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  I had to get private transport on Friday morning from Adelaide. 
-Firstly, I should like to offer my congratulations to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on being elected to the high office which you hold. I should also like you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker,  although I feel that he looked better sitting on this side of the House without a wig. Much has been said about the constitutional crisis and, whilst I do not intend to spend much time on it, I certainly endorse what has been said by my colleagues about what happened in Australia on 1 1 November. It was a black day for Australia. We used to refer to 1 1 November as Remembrance Day for another reason, but from now on we will call it Remembrance Day for political reasons. That was the day on which . Australian democracy took a step backwards. 
Quite a few derogatory remarks have been made about the Labor Government and about members of the Labor Party. I have been a member of this House since 1969 and I have been proud to be a member of the Labor Party. I have always felt that although the Labor Party does take its share of knocks, it cannot be knocked over completely. It always bounces back, unlike the Liberal Party. Going back to the time of Federation, the conservatives of this country have had 6 or 7 different names. They formed up; they collapsed; they called themselves by a different name; they re-formed and again came back. But throughout its history the Labor Party has retained the same name- the Australian Labor Party. It is a solid block, and whilst the corners can be knocked off the block itself cannot be knocked about. I do not think that any government has faced greater frustrations than those faced by the Whitlam Labor Government after it was elected in 1972. Right from the word go it had a hostile Senate. In the early part of the Whitlam Government's reign it was able to get some legislation through, but then the stunned Opposition suddenly came to life and realised that it had a majority in the Senate. It started to block legislation and kept on blocking and frustrating the Government so that during its 3 years of office the Labor Government was not allowed fully to carry out its program until after the double dissolution in 1974. 
Despite those obstructions, the Labor Government was able to make some quite large gains. The attitude of the Opposition in the Senate, and I think in this House also, seemed to be that because the Labor Party had a victory in 1972 something up in the heavens had gone wrong and the Liberal Party's right to rule suddenly had been upset. The Opposition just could not understand it. Despite the frustrations brought about by the Senate Opposition, the Labor Government was able to place quite a few pieces of very progressive legislation on the statute book. Certain members of the Opposition believed they had the right to rule and felt that something was wrong because they were sitting on the Opposition benches. In 1974 the Country Party goaded the then Leader of the Opposition, the present Speaker, into threatening to reject 
Supply in the Senate. In the event it provoked a double dissolution in 1974 from which Labor emerged victorious although with a slightly reduced but workable majority and was able to carry on its program. Rejected Bills which had been the grounds for the double dissolution were then put to a Joint Sitting of the Parliament and were passed into law. 
One of these Bills was the legislation setting up Medibank, a concept that had been hotly opposed by the former Opposition in this House and in the Senate. After the 1974 election the Liberal and National Country parties thought they could still prevent the introduction of Medibank because legislation had not been passed to provide for the financing of Medibank. Of course, Labor's original proposal was that it should be financed by a levy on income. Because no legislation had been passed for the funding of Medibank the then Opposition thought it had successfully frustrated the Government and that it could not introduce Medibank. But the Government soon proved it wrong. The Government introduced Medibank and decided to pay for it out of Consolidated Revenue so that the people of Australia would no longer be denied this advance in medical care. We now know that since the election on 13 December the Liberal and National Country parties have been considering introducing a taxation levy to pay for Medibank. 
Let me trace the events of history a little further. In early 1975  Senator Murphy  of the Australian Labor Party was elevated to the bench of the High Court of Australia. Under normal procedures he would have been replaced by a Labor nominee from his State. 
Because it did not suit the Premier of New South Wales  Senator Murphy  was replaced with a non Labor person. To that person's credit, when the Budget crisis developed last year he did the right thing. Perhaps the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  would care to interject about the replacement of  Senator Bert  Milliner, one of the most respected members of this Parliament, a man respected by people on all sides of politics. When he died in July last year the Premier of Queensland appointed to the Senate in his place a non Labor person. Obviously, he was a stooge. In fact the appointed  Senator said  that his only object in coming into the Parliament was to vote against the Australian Labor Party. So on 2 occasions conventions were completely thrown aside and from that time on Australian politics took a different course. Conventions that had been respected by both sides of the House for many years were suddenly thrown overboard. If in future a Liberal senator from a State with a Labor Government is to be replaced we cannot now expect his replacement to be a Liberal nominee. Despite the fact that the Labor Party would like to see adherence to conventions, I think if the rules of the game are to be changed we can play by the new rules. 
The Budget introduced by Treasurer Hayden last year was a good Budget. It has been shown to date that it would have put Australia back on the road to recovery. Members of the former Opposition realised that as time went on that Budget would start to take effect and that the economic picture would start to brighten. They realised then that they had to move. That is when they decided to defer the Budget. They did not have the guts to reject it; they just deferred it, thus precipitating a crisis. I repeat that they did not have the guts to reject the Budget. I come back to the constitutional crisis that erupted following deferral of the Budget. Let me make this final point on that aspect: I mentioned before that November 1 1 is Remembrance Day. From now on political scientists and keen students of political history will confer two meanings on Remembrance Day, Firstly, it will be the day when the fallen of two world wars will be remembered; secondly, it will be remembered as the day when part of Australian democracy died. 
We saw a Government that was twice elected to office ejected from office by the actions of the Governor-General. I do not intend to say any more on this subject. What has been said up to date clearly covers the points that should be made. Various people have said that members of the Labor Party acted badly in boycotting the opening of the Parliament and in other actions. I think that any fair minded person who had a look at how the Labor Party was treated following its election to office in 1972 must agree that members of the Labor Party had every right to feel that they had been treated unjustly and that the umpire had certainly not been fair. 
Unfortunately the then Opposition Parties were able to force the Labor Party to the people and, by means of a vicious Press propaganda campaign, were able to see the Labor Party defeated. But that election defeat was not the complete wipeout that one would be led to believe by what some people on the other side of the House have said. Let me tell honourable member this: I have quite a few Labor Party sub-branches in my electorate. Because of what happened in the course of that election campaign, the membership of those sub-branches has doubled; they are much more solid and are working much harder. So, do not let anybody think that the Labor Party has been slaughtered, because it has not been. As 1 have said before, the Labor Party is like a block: The corners can be knocked off but the block remains. There was no resounding defeat. Let us look at the vote the Labor Party attracted. It got 42.8 per cent of votes cast but has only 36 seats in this House. I compare that with the position of the National Country Party which, with less than 10 per cent of the votes cast, has 23 seats in this House. Is there any fairness in a system which produces that result? The Liberal Party received a total vote I per cent less than the vote that the Labor Party received. But what is its representation here? The Liberal Party has 68 seats in this House. I repeat those figures: The Labor Party with 42.8 per cent of the vote holds 36 seats in this House; the Liberal Party with approximately 42 per cent of the vote has 68 seats in this House. 
In the time that I have been a member of this House there have been some great defenders of Parliament. These are the people who try to portray themselves as the great respecters of parliamentary democracy and democratic institutions. After what has happened in the last few months I am afraid that the claims of those great defenders of the parliamentary institution have been found to be wanting. That fact is certainly indicated by the results obtained by the various parties. Those results demonstrate that a great need exists for electoral reform in this country. The Labor Party tried to introduce electoral reform. Bills were brought before this House and passed, but they were rejected by the Senate. Every political scientist in Australia agreed that the proposals that were placed before this House for electoral reform were the fairest electoral redistribution proposals ever presented in Australia. But our proposals did not suit those people who were then in Opposition. I am amazed that the Liberal Party took the attitude that it did on those proposals as the Liberal Party stood to lose more by a gerrymander of electorates in favour of the National Country Party than we did. If those electoral redistribution proposals had been passed the Labor Party possibly would not have gained any more seats than it holds; it would possibly have lost a few more seats. My own seat would have been in jeopardy. The point is that the Opposition Parties refused to pass that legislation. Once again the National Country Party tail wagged the Liberal Party dog. But, sooner or later, electoral reform must be passed to ensure that parliamentary democracy does reign in Australia. 
I said that I was very proud to be involved in the 3 years of Labor Government. I have very good reasons for saying that. While the Labor Party was in office, Australia, in common with every other comparable nation in the world, faced the economic problems of inflation and unemployment. We do not say that we had all the answers, but at least we were trying to do something about those problems. The record of what we did is as good as that of any other country in the Western world. 
Although we heard some very nice words from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tonight, I thought his speech was typically Liberal: The words were very fine but the actions will never fit those words. There are examples in my own electorate of advantages that the people of Australia were able to gain in those 3 years of Labor Government. Last Saturday I had the privilege of attending the opening of a community health centre in a town in my electorate. This is only one of many areas in which many great improvements were made during those 3 years of Labor Government. One of the first actions of the Labor Government on coming to office- and this possibly helped more Country Party candidates than other candidates in the election was the introduction of the isolated children's scholarship. I am sure that the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  would agree, because I know he was vitally interested in this area, that until 1972 the Liberal-Country Party Government had done nothing whatsoever to give assistance to people living in isolated areas throughout Australia to ensure that their children had a decent opportunity to get a reasonable education. One of the first acts of the then Labor Minister for Education,  Mr Kim  Beazley, was to introduce the isolated children's scholarship. 
I have seen educational facilities upgraded in many areas throughout my electorate which in the past have been very neglected. About three or four years ago I made a tour of my electorate and I made it my business to attend every school in the electorate, including the outback areas. There was not one school which you could say came up to standard. I am pleased to say that thanks to the Australian Labor Party Government which provided additional facilities many of those schools have been upgraded and their facilities greatly improved. In the larger towns assistance was given to the many kindergartens that were set up and which now operate in these areas. These kindergartens are all running into financial problems, but I am pleased to say that following the establishment of the Children's Commission and the setting up of the various coordinating committees that work in conjunction with the State authorities, we were able to channel Federal money to these areas, and I am sure that the people in these areas are very grateful for what the Australian Labor Party did in its 3 years in office. In quite a number of areas in my electorate child care centres are being established. I know that up to date none of them is actually operating, but promises have been made to establish them. In some cases tenders have been called for and I certainly hope that the Government, in carrying out its proposed expenditure cuts, does not cancel any of these projects that have been promised. There have been many other improvements. 
Possibly one area that has gained most out of the Labor Government administration has been that of local government. I heard in debate here today much about how the Labor Government was trying to take over the functions of local government authorities. There are 15 local government bodies in my electorate. I very much doubt whether any of the councillors on those bodies would agree with the sentiments that were expressed here today about their fear of what the former Federal Government was doing. I know what their approaches to me have been. They have been very grateful for the great assistance that has been given. For argument's sake referring to the question of Grants Commission allocations, there are 1 5 local councils in all in my electorate. Two years ago they received $750,000 and last year an amount of $980,000, a total of $1,730,000. 1 know from my discussions with many councillors that they are very concerned as to what the future holds. They know that what they got from the Labor Government was tangible. Now they know that there are new proposals being put forward and they know' of this talk about money from general income tax and so forth, and I am afraid they are very worried. There are some very vague proposals, not proposals that will be based on the needs of the various councils. They know that in the past they were able to get an allocation of money when they could put up a case. I can assure the House that these local government councils are concerned as to what the future holds for them. 
I have heard much in this debate about honourable members representing large electorates, some of which are beautiful, some of which are north of the Tropic of Capricorn, and so on. Well, I happen to represent a large electorate too, and of course in any large electorate the problem of transport is of prime concern. I am pleased to say that during the 3 years in which Labor was in office we were aware of the question as to when the Eyre Highway was going to be finished and the problem of when people were going to be able to drive from Adelaide to Perth on a bitumen road. I know the answer that I received from previous Ministers for Transport. They told me: 'All that is South Australia's worry. That is its financial responsibility'. Last year the Labor Government brought in the national roads program. Because of that we can expect to be able to drive from Adelaide to Perth on a bitumen road well before Christmas next year. 
We saw the commencement of the TarcoolaAlice Springs railway. I know that this has been talked about for years; but now the project is well on the way. It was opened last April. I had the pleasure, with the then Prime Minister, of attending that function. I noticed that no Liberal Party members were there. Certainly, the honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  was there, because that railway line is of great concern to his electorate. I wondered whether the function was being boycotted by Liberal Party members. I thought that at least that would ensure the success of the project because the last project the Liberal Party boycotted was the Snowy Mountains scheme. I do not think that anybody would dare to say that that scheme, which was started by the Chifley Labor Government back in 1949 and boycotted by the Liberal Party, was not a success. Under the national roads program other projects in my area should commence shortly. I hope so, anyway. There is a new Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I certainly hope that he pushes on with the programs laid down by the previous Administration. The Stuart Highway through the Northern Territory is of great benefit to our friend, the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for Holt I remind the House that this is his maiden speech. I anticipate that the usual courtesies will be extended to the honourable member. I call the honourable member for Holt. 
-We often hear from members on the other side of the House that the Labor Party carries an anti-rural bias. Whilst I wish to refer to rural matters, it is not my intention to touch on the Bill which we have been dealing with tonight- the Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill. I always consider it a big advantage to Liberal Party and National Country Party members to have very short memories because when we are dealing with rural matters, I think that a short memory salves a few consciences. Honourable members opposite then do not have to look back a few years to see what happened in our rural industries over the last 6 or 7 years. Whilst my interest in rural affairs probably stems only from when I was elected in 1969 and a period prior to that, at least I can go back to that time. I think that I have a bit of an idea as to what has happened in my own electorate with regard to rural industry. 
If we go back to that period when, because of our political attitudes and so forth we had alienated what was one of our best wheat markets, we find that the farmers with bumper wheat harvests had nowhere to store them. They could not sell the wheat. It was lying around on farms in any container that would hold wheat. The farmers were in real strife. I know in my own electorate I saw wheat stored in plastic bags, I saw it stored in old water tanks, and stored in anything that would hold wheat. This situation occurred mainly because of the attitude taken by the previous government to what is now one of our best wheat markets. That of course was the No. 1 reason- the failure to recognise Red China at that time. Of course the Government at that time certainly did the wheatgrowers of Australia a bad turn. How did the wheatgrowers get out of this particular problem? 
I know the problem of overproduction had to be solved in one way. The Government introduced wheat quotas. I know that some people have said: 'Oh, the States introduced the wheat quotas'. But because of the Federal finance made available to the Wheat Board, the Federal Government had a fair say in what was done with the quotas. The way in which the quotas were introduced in an across-the-board fashion brought many new ground farmers and many small farmers also to their knees. I have personal friends who went to the wall because of the debts they had. At the time, they had to produce a certain amount of wheat to cover their liabilities. The introduction of the wheat quotas was the finish of them. So that is how the Government solved that particular problem. 
Of course, at the same time the wool industry was in a great deal of trouble. I think the growers were receiving 28c or 29c a lb for wool. The Government tried to resolve a lot of these problems. I think one of its faults has always been that it tried to solve a lot of these problems by ad hoc decisions, not long term decisions, just short term decisions. Of course this has never worked. Perhaps we could look at a few of those decisions that were taken. It was decided to pay out $30m to woolgrowers. The Government laid down certain conditions. One of the conditions was that the income of the woolgrower in the year in which the subsidy was to be paid out had to be not more than 92 per cent of his income in the previous year. This may seem all right on paper but it did not take into account the position of the individual farmer. I know of one particular woolgrower who endeavoured to increase his clip in the second year- the year the payment came out- but because of the lower prices, his income did not increase at all but dropped slightly. When I say slightly, I mean by not quite 8 per cent. He told me that he owed $60,000 on his property. But when he applied for the subsidy of up to $1,500 that was available at that time, what happened?  His  income in his second year was 92.17 per cent of his income in the previous year. So he got nothing. What riled him was that the grower next door who had a family farm with no debts on the land- I am not saying that he did not have other debts- received the full benefit of the allocation of that money. The wool deficiency payment scheme was introduced at that time. The records show that it was at 36c per lb at that time. I understand that the National Country Party at that time wanted it raised to 40c per lb but the Liberal Party, which it was often said was under the influence of some wool brokers in Sydney, agreed to 36c. After taking into account inflation and other factors honourable members should compare that scheme with that which operates at present. 
Because of the problems that these 2 industries were in many people looked to other areas where the prospects were a little brighter. They looked at the beef industry. The then Government encouraged people to increase their beef herds but people increased them to such an extent that our beef cattle numbers at present are far above what our markets can take. For example, I was intrigued not so many months ago by what had happened in my electorate because it was obvious that there were a great many more cattle in the' area than there has been in previous years. It is not normally a large beef cattle area but the number of cattle in my electorate between 1970-1975 increased  3lA  times. I would say that that situation has been repeated in a number of rural electorates throughout Australia with the result that when the downturn came in the beef industry, although I acknowledge that we had a period of good sales there were too many cattle and we were left, as we are now, with them on our hands. 
It does appear that in too many cases the Liberal and National Country Parties looked not at the long term solution to a lot of these problems but at a short term solution with the result that in this instance we saw a big increase in our cattle numbers. We had the markets for them for a short period, but when those markets closed up on us we were caught. The Labor Party Government was left with this legacy. When it came to power at the time the levy we are discussing tonight was introduced the market was still buoyant, still good. Then the bottom fell out of it because of action taken by the European Economic Community, Japan and the United States of America and we found that the beef industry was in real trouble. One would have to admit that the problem was that there was no long term planning or a proper assessment of what the market would stand. Consequently when there was a closing up of these markets we were left with cattle unsold, as we are at present. 
When the Labor Party came to power one of its first actions was to inititate a Green Paper on the rural industries. That Green Paper was produced not long afterwards and I feel laid a basis for long term planning in our rural industries. Another thing that happened in the first period of the Labor Government's term of office was that for the first time in many years it increased the first advance payment for wheat. It then increased it again to, I think, $1.60-1 forget the precise amount for the moment. That payment had remained unchanged over the years despite the fact that although inflation has been a little higher in the last 3 years there was a certain amount of inflation in most of the years when the $ 1 . 1 0 payment applied. 
The Labor Government also established the Industries Assistance Commission to supply it with solid, long term information as to where and how assistance to industries should be given. At the time of the former Government's dismissal from office in November last a number of these proposals were being discussed. It is all right to say that a report came out in July and that the Government had not come to a decision on it by November, but many government reports are held awaiting discussion. I remember one report on the ship building industry that was held for so long that it laid an egg. Because these IAC reports become public documents, which was something that did not happen under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, and are immediately released, everybody wants the recommendations contained in them implemented straight away. I have not heard anybody screaming out for the implementation of the recommendations in the IAC report on nitrogenous fertilisers. 
When the Parliament was dissolved that was the position with regard to the IAC. Much has been said about the superphosphate bounty. Certainly we removed it and at the time I was not in favour of that. 
-I thought I would remind honourable members that the previous LiberalNational Country Party Goverment removed it on 2 occasions, once in the early 1950s and again in the 1960s. 
In conclusion, I feel that with the long term policy of the Labor Government and the assistance that we were getting from IAC reports, we had a firm basis for planning in our rural industries and we would have got away from the ad hoc decisions that were made in the past by those who are presently in power. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware that long term recipients of Commonwealth employees' compensation are in receipt of only $57 a week for a single person and that there are further reduced rates for dependants- the worst compensation payments in Australia? Is the Minister aware that the previous Government planned prior to 1 1 November to legislate to increase these amounts considerably? In view of the hardships being experienced by these Commonwealth Government employees on long term compensation, does the Government intend to increase the rates to a reasonable level in line with more advanced State Acts? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the committee of inquiry on the new route for the Stuart Highway between Port Augusta and Alice Springs completed its examination. 
If so, when is it anticipated that the report on the committee 's findings will be released. 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to statements made on  AM  this morning in which the South Australian Attorney-General expressed his concern that the Australian Legal Aid Office in Adelaide is now open only  Vh  days per week, resulting in a much reduced service to the public by the ALAO? Does this indicate a rejection by the Government of pre-election pledges regarding this necessary service to the less fortunate in society? With the obvious downgrading of the service, does it indicate that implementation of the previous Government's intention to establish ALAO services in major provincial cities in South Australia is now very remote? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the total number of: 
beef cattle, and 
dairy cattle in Australia in each year since 1 969. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it true that expenditure on a number of area improvement programs has been deferred? Is the Minister aware that many local councils have committed themselves to these projects and will face severe financial problems if they do not receive the full allocation as set out in the 1975-76 Budget? 
-I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I think it is worth reading out the terms of the amendment. It states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'while not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill is deficient in that it removes some important benefits now applying under the current Superannuation Act, thereby reducing the overall value of benefits for existing pensioners and contributors'. 
Later I shall have something to say about the deficiencies in the proposed scheme. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  indicated quite a number of those deficiencies and the fact that the proposed scheme can in no way be compared with the scheme which was proposed last year by the then Labor Government. I have a particular interest in this matter because for 18 years I was a contributor to the Superannuation Fund. When this matter was debated last year I made some inquiries as to what my position would be if I were still a member of the Superannuation Fund. When I resigned in 1969 to enter this place I was paying 12.5 per cent of my income in superannuation payments. I checked the situation last year and found that my contribution would have risen to 19.5 per cent. No doubt at the present time it would be somewhere between 20 per cent and 20.5 percent. 
There are many Commonwealth public servants in the electorate which I represent. They are to be found in the Australian Postal Commission, in the Australian Telecommunications Commission, in the Australian National Railways where approximately 3000 or possibly more people are employed, and in the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera. All told, they make up a pretty solid block of Commonwealth employees. Quite a large proportion of them would be contributors to the existing Superannuation Fund. Last year when our BUI was about to come before the House I took out some figures in relation to the payments made by employees of the Australian National Railways who were contributors to the Fund, who were in their fifties, and who had decided to take advantage of the opportunity to retire at age sixty. When I asked for those figures to be taken out I said that I wanted an across the board set of classifications I did not want just the people at the top- including tradesmen, leading hands, foremen, class 3 clerks, Fourth Division officers, and so forth. 
When I received those figures and examined them I found that aU these people had taken the maximum number of units. The contributions of these people, whose ages were in the 50s, to the superannuation fund ranged from 24 per cent to 37 per cent of their wages. Because of the increases in wages since then those percentages would have risen. Now we have reached the stage when many employees have stated that they have to go to the bank each fortnight in order to live. Some people may think that that is odd. Last Saturday morning a person who would earn about the average earnings in Australia walked into my office and told me that he was going to the bank every fortnight in order to keep going. He was paying over $ 1 30 each fortnight in superannuation. By the time he paid his tax and met his other commitments he had to go to the bank. These are the people contributing to the existing scheme about whom I am most concerned. I am not so concerned about the top brass. Although such people might be paying high contributions they still have quite an amount left on which to exist. The lower paid workers, whether they be clerical workers or wage employees, have a lot less on which to live after they pay their contributions to the fund and this means that they are in dire financial trouble. 
All honourable members know that in 1971 a Treasury committee was appointed to look at the superannuation scheme and to bring down recommendations. That Committee recommended a new scheme and pointed out the anomalies in the existing scheme. It made recommendations, together with certain alternatives. Nothing was done, of course, from a legislative point of view until the Labor Party became the Government. In 1973 the Labor Government, in order to bring about an efficient and equitable scheme, again called for a report and it acted on that report by introducing legislation. That legislation was introduced in May 1975 and it was to operate from 1 July 1975. We all know what happened in the Senate. 
From the time when the question of an inquiry into the superannuation scheme was raised in 1971 Commonwealth public servants were looking expectantly for some move by the Government to ease the financial burden to which a lot of the older members were subjected and from which it did not appear that they could escape. As they got older the position got worse. Their hopes began in 1971 and finally, in 1975, the Labor Party Government introduced its scheme. That legislation was rejected with all the other Bills rejected by the Senate. The Senate returned it to this House with a pile of amendments. I think there were 94 or 95 amendments but the main bone of contention was that the age of 60 years was altered wherever it appeared to the age of 65 years. This was a let-down to all those people who had been contributing for many years to allow them to retire at 60 years of age. The honourable member for Fraser referred to the expectations held by these people. Their hopes were again dashed. 
I think the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  said that the unions were prepared to accept the superannuation scheme now before the House. Previously the unions were not prepared to accept such a scheme. They were right behind the Labor Party in trying to push the initial Bill through the Parliament The unions are accepting the present proposal. Unfortunately, they have no option. They know that if they do not accept this scheme this matter will go on and on and the situation will get worse and worse. If the honourable member spoke to the unions he would find that they are not happy with this scheme because of the many anomalies in it and the disadvantages of it when compared with the Labor Party 's proposal and also with the existing scheme in some respects. 
The position now is that wherever the age of 60 years appeared in the Labor Party's Bill the age of 65 years appears in this Bill. Because of the frustration of the Senate- one of the many frustrations engaged in by the Senate- the Labor Party's Bill was withdrawn last year. This resulted in extreme disappointment to all the contributors who had been looking to the Labor Party to provide for them a scheme which would take some of the financial burden from them and allow them to have decent retirement. All honourable members know what happened. There is no need for me to go into what happened on 1 1 November and the events that led up to it. Our intention to reintroduce the original Bill in the same form was defeated by what happened on 1 1 November and we are now dealing with the scheme introduced by the present Government 
The honourable member for Fraser mentioned some of the disabilities associated with this Bill and perhaps I could mention a few. There are disadvantages in the invalidity clauses. Those clauses disadvantaged people with less than 30 years' prospective employment. Present contributors cannot take up rejected units, as they were able to do in the past and as they would have been able to do under our scheme. The greatest disadvantage is the inability to retire at age 60 on the full pension. I do not know the exact figures but I would say that a very high percentage of the contributors I know have been contributing higher payments so that they could retire at 60 years of age. Now the hopes of these people have been dashed. If they retire at 60 years of age they will receive only 45 per cent of their final salary compared with 50 per cent under the Labor Party's scheme. Again I say that my main concern is for the lower paid employees who contribute to this scheme, because they are the people with whom I have the closest association. 
The honourable member for Hume said that the honourable member for Fraser must have put advertisements in the newspaper to get people to come along and complain about this Government's scheme. I am sure he did not do so. As he lives in Canberra where there are so many contributors to the superannuation scheme he would not have to put advertisements in the newspaper. The proportion of public servants in his electorate is a lot higher than it is in mine and I know the number of people who have come to my office and voiced their objections and complaints to the proposed scheme. 
Much has been said in various place about making Commonwealth public servants tall poppies and giving them benefits which are not available elsewhere. If a comparison were made we would find that all States have public service superannuation schemes and I would say that in most cases they are better schemes. The Commonwealth scheme may not be the worst but it is a long way from being the best. The honourable member for Fraser also pointed out that the Commonwealth scheme is now the only scheme under which a person has to work until the age of 65 in order to get full benefits. There were other matters that I wished to point out but I think I shall conclude on that note. I again express my support for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand and trust that the House will accept it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Short)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Are there any plans to exploit the coal reserves at Lake Philopson in South Australia; if so, what are those plans. 
My question which I address to the Minister for Primary Industry concerns the current industrial dispute about the maximum size of wool bales. Is it a fact that wool sold in bales weighing between 180 kilograms and 204 kilograms accounts for only 8 per cent of the clip and that the average weight of wool bales is 149 kilograms? Is the Minister aware that the Federated Storeman and Packers Union of Australia, whilst demanding a maximum weight of 180 kilograms, has also offered to participate in discussions aimed at increasing the average bale weight? In view of the Minister's expressed desire to see the weight of bales increased, is he prepared to convene a conference of all parties involved to discuss this matter? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What financial assistance has been made available to the Royal Flying Doctor Service by the Australian Government in each year since 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1) Did the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd call tenders in 1975 for the construction of two 13 000 DWT general purpose ships. 
If so, when did the tenders close. 
Has any announcement been made as to the successful tenderer; if so, by whom are the ships to be constructed. 
I take the opportunity in this grievance debate to raise a matter of grave concern not only to my electorate but also to the electorate of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I refer to the problems facing the shipbuilding industry today. A few weeks ago the honourable member for Newcastle introduced a deputation to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  concerning the problems in the industry in Newcastle as he saw them. I had the opportunity of introducing a similar deputation from Whyalla. They are the 2 major shipbuilding areas in Australia. The deputation from Whyalla resulted from what I think was a pretty responsible attitude taken by the trade unions in Whyalla which were organising protest meetings about what the future held for the industry in that town but decided to call off stoppages. They decided to approach the other local people interested in this matter- the town council, the people who represent the small contractors and the business people. As a result a public meeting was called in Whyalla. 
The meeting was held in a hall that was overflowing with people. It was decided at that meeting to send a deputation to Canberra to place the people's views before the Minister. I had the pleasure of arranging for that deputation to be heard. It was representative of all sections in the Whyalla district- the trade unions, the town council, the local business people and the small contractors around the town who supply building materials and so forth to the shipyard. There were discussions with the Minister here. He gave the deputation a good hearing; I do grant him that. He did concede many of the points which the deputation raised with him, but of course he could not give these people a definite answer. His reply was that he was preparing a submission to go before the Cabinet and he would take their views into consideration in preparing a submission to be put before the Cabinet. I understand from a newspaper report that a submission has been made to the Cabinet. We certainly hope that any decision that the Government brings down will ensure that the Australian shipbuilding industry will continue in the future as it has done in the past and in fact will continue to grow which in a maritime nation such as Australia is a matter of great importance. 
My main concern and responsibility is concerned with the shipyard at Whyalla which is owned by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Perhaps it would pay us to look back at a few years of the history of the Whyalla shipyard. It was established early in the war years, in the early 1940s, in an area in Spencers Gulf that was considered to be strategically defendable. Previously the port of Whyalla had been used only for shipping out iron ore concentrates from Iron Knob and Iron Baron, and when it did start operations some of the first ships built there were for the Navy. I think the first ship built was the  HMAS Whyalla,  which served during the Second World War and was the first of a number of naval ships that were built there. The value of the shipyard was that it established a strong secondary industry well away from the major capital cities. 
Following the establishment of the shipyards, Whyalla has grown to the largest city in South Australia outside Adelaide and certainly it is one of the strong secondary industry areas outside the capital city and in a decentralised situation. As I said, many of the early ships built there were naval ships. It is interesting to note that last week in Adelaide the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  when asked a question about the 2 frigates purchased from the United States, said that they could not have been built at Whyalla because we lacked the expertise to do the work. While I realise that these days naval ships are a lot more sophisticated than they were in the war years, I am sure that if Australia were in trouble tomorrow yards such as the State Dockyard at Newcastle, which is another major shipyard, and the Whyalla shipyard would be called upon to build these sophisticated naval ships and would be able to do the job. 
Let us consider some of the ships that were built at the Whyalla yard. First of all, the  Ocean Digger,  which was the first oil rig built in Australia, was built at that yard. I understand that there were problems involved in getting it built overseas and the Whyalla yard undertook the job and did it quite successfully. The largest ship ever built in Australia, the  Clutha Capricorn,  of approximately 83 000 tons, was also built at that yard. One unique ship built there, and this involved the question of expertise too, was the  Amanda Miller,  a 65 000 ton ship constructed for the R. W. Miller company. During the course of construction the ship caught fire. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and I inspected the ship after the fire. Its back had been broken in five or six places and it was a complete mess. The ship was completely reconstructed on the Whyalla slipway and was only a few months late in going down the slipway. That certainly indicates that great credit is due to the expertise of the people in the yard and shows that there was no lack of quality in the workmanship of the men in the yard or in the design. 
As I have said, because of the establishment of the shipyard and some of the other activities which followed, Whyalla grew into the second largest city in South Australia, with a population at the present time of between 34 000 and 35 000 people. One of the unique things about it is that about 60 per cent of its people were born overseas. Whyalla has grown mainly on the basis of migrants who were brought to this country on the nomination of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to work in its shipyards. However, those people who have been brought from overseas are the ones who will be worst hit because many of them were brought from areas where the main industry is shipbuilding. If the wrong decisions are made and it becomes necessary for these people to move out of the area, they will have to leave an industry in which they have worked all their lives. We all know that problems exist in the shipbuilding industry throughout the world at the present time, and there are a number of reasons for that. One reason was the Arab oil embargo and another the dearth of super-tankers in the world. 
One of the problems that shipyards such as the ones we have in Australia are facing is that the overseas yards that formerly built super-tankers are now moving into other fields and building the types of ships which are quite within the scope of the Australian yards. The overseas shipyards are grabbing everything that is going and Australian shipyards now are facing highly increased competition from overseas. In a paper put out recently, Professor Fink of the University of New South Wales claims that those lower tenders are made at dump prices. So that problem has to be overcome. Certainly it would be a shame if the Australian shipbuilding industry were allowed to wither away because of a temporary situation whereby it is possible to buy ships at cheaper prices overseas than those for which they can be bought in Australia. It is rather ironic that such ships are being built with cheap raw materials supplied by Australia. As I have said, overseas shipbuilders are able to quote lower prices in tenders for Australian ships and, as a result, our yards have been placed in the position in which they now find themselves. It would be a shame if, because of present conditions, this industry slowed down or reached a stage where it became stagnant or there was no longer an Australian shipbuilding industry, which is necessary to give Australia, as a maritime nation, full contact with the rest of the world for our imports and exports. 
The honourable member for Newcastle mentioned today at question time some of the tenders could have been placed. Four 15 000-ton ships are on tender for the Australian National Line and two 13 000-ton general purpose ships for BHP. The honourable member also mentioned a Howard Smith Ship. I understand that there is also an arrangement between ANL and Lyaghts for the construction of a 20 000-ton slab carrier. What is going to happen to those tenders? There are sufficient ships on tender- seven or eight in all- to keep the Australian shipyards going for quite a number of years and to give the Australian Government and the industry time to reexamine the position and to look at methods of assistance. We know that at the present time, as a result of a Tariff Board report which the previous Labor Government accepted, assistance to the shipbuilding industry in the early 1980s will drop to 25 per cent. I believe it is possible that the factors which were relevant when the Tariff Board brought down its report are no longer relevant. We have to consider the types of assistance that are given overseas. Every major shipbuilding nation in the world assists its shipbuilding industry. Australia assists the industry in one form, that is, by way of a shipbuilding subsidy. Other nations assist the industry in eight or nine different ways, and I would suggest that when considering new policies to assist the industry we should look at those other forms of assistance in an endeavour at least to give the shipbuilding industry a chance to keep going and play its full part in the advancement of the Australian nation. 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Resources. Why has it become necessary to refer the question of the crude oil pricing policy to the Industries Assistance Commission? Did not the Minister endorse the present policy when it was announced last September by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam?  Is it not a fact that Esso-BHP and Wapet have already written off their development costs and that any increase in the current oil price at this stage can only be viewed as a golden handsake bearing in mind Press reports last weekend that Esso is repatriating $70m of its oil profit this year to the United States? If the Minister believes that the present oil pricing policy is deficient, why does the Government not say so and review its whole policy rather than shunt one aspect of it to the IAC with the intention of hiding behind its report? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Was any direct financial assistance made available by the Australian Government to commuter type airlines during the last 2 years. 
If so, (a) what airlines were involved, and what was the amount of assistance received, (b) what was the reason for granting the assistance and (c) in what States do the airlines operate. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any further investigations been carried out by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board into the provision of television services to the Eyre Peninsula area of South Australia; if so, what findings have resulted from those investigations. 
When can it be anticipated that this service will be provided for the people in this area, one of the last closely settled areas in Australia without television services. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. What are the privacy implications of the continuous transfer of information between private health funds and Medibank and between the Taxation Office and the Health Insurance Commission, made necessary by the new 2-class universal system of health care? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, during flying operations in the Port Lincoln area of South Australia, pilots are frequently out of touch with the very high frequency transmitters and receivers located in Adelaide, due to the poor high frequency radio propagation characteristics of the area. 
Has departmental approval been given for the installation of a VHF repeater station in the Port Lincoln area in an effort to improve radio communications in that area. 
If so, when can it be anticipated that the VHF repeater station will be installed in the port Lincoln area. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to complaints regarding the restriction of air space, affecting air operations at Parafield Aerodrome in Adelaide, following the recent announcement of certain RAAF operations being transferred to Edinburgh Air Base. 
Were investigations carried out as to the suitability of the facilities at Woomera for those RAAF activities. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) It is a fact that some medical practitioners are refusing to accept appointments from patients unless those patients are contributors to private medical insurance schemes. 
If so, have medical practitioners the right to refuse to treat patients if they do not contribute to private medical insurance schemes. 
Will he have discussions with organisations covering the medical profession to ensure that the unethical actions of some medical practitioners are condemned by those organisations. 
The Prime Minister will be aware that heavy retrenchments will occur at Australia's main shipyards at Newcastle and Whyalla unless new orders for ships are received soon. He will also be aware that the Australian Shipping Commission and Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd have delayed placing new ship orders pending the announcement of a new Government shipbuilding policy. In view of the critical situation at Whyalla and Newcastle, will he announce the Government's shipbuilding policy before the House rises this week? If not, when will the announcement be made? 
I refute the remarks of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  in his attack on the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  In the time I have been in this Parliament I do not think there has been a Minister, whether from this side of the House or the other side, who has displayed more compassion for and understanding of the Aboriginal people than did the honourable member for Wills. He has been a strong supporter of the Aboriginal people for many years. For as long as I can remember his name, he has been involved in the Aboriginal Advancement League. He has been its federal  president  and his record in the field of Aboriginal affairs is one of which anyone could be proud, and that is more than I can say for some other people in this House. 
It is not the intention of the Labor Party to oppose this Bill, but we certainly reserve our right to criticise. Possibly our main criticism is that although we have not solved all the problems of the Aboriginal people the Government is now going to cut over $3m from the sum allocated for this purpose. While the Government is doing that I do not think it can honestly say that it is doing its utmost to try to solve the problems of these people. 
I think I can speak a little of the Aboriginal people although I do not travel around the Northern Territory as much as the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  The honourable member for the Northern Territory thinks that the only people with dark skin live in his electorate and that the only people with any knowledge of them or can speak with any authority on them come from his electorate. How wrong he is. There may be experts on Aboriginal matters living in the Northern Territory but probably the greatest number of racists in Australia are in the Northern Territory. That has been shown on quite a few occasions. The honourable member talked about his own area but I remember an occasion a few years back when I was standing outside the Alice Springs Hotel. He would know that hotel. I saw the paddy waggons driven up and the Aborigines moved out of the beer garden at the Alice Springs Hotel. I saw one of the most brutal acts I have ever seen in my life. Fists, boots and all were used when these people were picked up, put into the paddy waggon and taken away. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory also mentioned the Aboriginal Legal 
Aid Office. I can remember what used to happen in my own area. Before Aborigines had the right to drink they would take a few flagons of wine with them into the scrub. The police would get wind of what was happening and would raid the area. Usually there would be 40 or 50 people there. The police would pick them up, take them in and charge them all with drunkenness. The same thing was happening in the Northern Territory. Despite this we hear condemnation of the Aboriginal legal rights organisation. At least now, because of the Aboriginal legal rights organisation, when an Aboriginal appears in court he is assured of getting just representation in the court and will not be charged with an offence of which they were not guilty, as used to happen time and again throughout Australia. Aborigines were charged by association in that they happened to be present when the police raided. They were charged with being drunk simply because there happened to be some flagons of wine or some other intoxicating drink there and off to the court they would be taken and given 10 days or 28 days, whatever it was. 
I think the Labor Party can be proud of what it has done. I think that possibly the last Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the previous LiberalCountry Party Government understood this particular problem and made moves to try to stop this unfair administration of justice. These things still go on but at least Aborigines can get the correct advice and so forth and can be represented in the courts by legal people. 
I recall the last occasion on which the honourable member for the Northern Territory spoke of Aboriginal matters. He condemned the purchase of Kenmore Park Station. This cattle station is in the north-west of South Australia and abuts the north-west Aboriginal area. When the Labor Government was in power we purchased another cattle station in that area, Everard Park, which is in close proximity to Kenmore Park. At that time there were restrictions on the Aboriginal people moving around the area although they were all of the one tribal group. They set up a reserve called Indulkana. I have spoken of this in this House on a number of occasions. After a lot of hard negotiations, 12 square miles were cut out of that cattle station and sold on the condition that a dog-proof fence was put around the place and that the Aborigines did not take wood off the station. The sale of Kenmore Park Station with its close association with the Ernabella Presbyterian mission, the north-west Aboriginal area and the station the Labor Government had purchased at Mimili- Everard Park was renamed Mimili- was an opportunity to get this land for these people. It was not intended that it be run as a cattle station but if that could be done and it could be made to pay, well and good. These people live in a strong tribal area and the purchase of that cattle station allowed those people to stay on their own area. Honourable members opposite can talk about the waste of money if they like but I would not care if these people did not make a cent out of that station. The point is that it provided a tribal ground on which those people could move around and not feel that they were being hunted away by other people, usurpers, who came into that area. 
So much for those things. Perhaps I can get back to the Bill. Progress in these matters certainly did not start with the Labor Party coming to office. The former Liberal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs started the States grants set-up relating to Aborigines. The LiberalCountry Party Government commenced this following the referendum in 1967. I think a very small amount, something in the vicinity of $Sm, was allocated after the referendum gave the Commonwealth Government the right to move into these matters. In the year that the Labor Government came to office the amount had increased from the initial allocation of $Sm in 1967 to $61,167,000 in 1972-73. This was when the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was Minister. That was a big increase on what had been allocated in the past and we of the Opposition are not condemning that When the Labor Government came to power we did not condemn his program; we made sure that it was expanded. We had a Minister who was compassionate and who had been involved in this sphere for a long time. He knew what the problems were. Programs were stepped up in line with the Australian Labor Party's declared policy. Expenditure in 1972-73 was $6 1 m, in 1 973-74 it was $98m, in 1 974-75 it was $158m, and in the 1975-76 Budget $192m was appropriated. 
Let us look at the areas in which this money has been spent. I think we all realise that for many years up until the last few years nobody gave a damn about Aborigines. Nobody gave a damn about their education, their health or thenhousing. It is no good honourable members opposite trying to take me to task on these matters, because I live in a town that had a festering sore on its outskirts in the form of an Aboriginal settlement. That is all it could be called. It comprised humpies made out of flattened kerosene tins. It was a festering sore on the outskirts of a white society. I know that many people in the town closed their eyes. They were a bit like some people in the Northern Territory who do not want to see the unsavoury things so they close their eyes. Many people in my town closed their eyes, but the Aboriginal settlement remained a festering sore. 
Since the institution of the Labor Party's policies we have seen some improvements. We have certainly not gone as far as we would like to go. One of the areas of greatest concern is education. Ten years ago you would not have seen an Aboriginal child in the local high school. Today Aboriginal children are receiving a reasonable education. The Aboriginal housing problem certainly has not been overcome, but the Aborigines have set up one of those so-called shocking organisations- a housing society. That housing society is trying to purchase houses around the towns to house Aborigines in decent conditions. That is one of the things on which honourable members opposite say we have wasted money. 
Let us look at unemployment among Aborigines. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said that the Labor Government caused unemployment among Aborigines. What a laugh. Just before the Labor Party came into government nobody gave a damn about whether Aborigines were employed. At least the Labor Government provided finance to local government authorities and various organisations and set up special works projects to provide jobs for Aborigines. Whilst I do not have the figures with me, I know the amount outlayed in my area was considerable and certainly was helpful to the Aborigines who were able to get jobs. At least they could not be condemned as being layabouts. They took up regular employment. We went a long way towards providing Aborigines with an opportunity to take their rightful place in society. It is in these areas that we are now to see possible cutbacks. I know it was said that only $3m was involved. But this is a period when we all know the problems. I do not say we have solved the problems. We are a long way from solving them; but in a period when we are starting to scratch the surface and starting to make some progress there are to be cutbacks in the area of Aboriginal affairs under the guise of a general cutback in public expenditure. As a nation we can justifiably cut back in some areas; but if we are to cut back in this area in which Australia should be ashamed of its past we should be ashamed of our future too. An article in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  stated that it is expected that funding on Aboriginal projects in the coming Budget will be cut back by 15 per cent. I do not know whether that is true; but if it is, again it is something in respect of which the Government should hang its head in shame. 
Discrimination is probably one of the greatest hurdles with which Aboriginal people have to contend. No matter where they go, they strike discrimination. Because of their position in society, they are open to discriminatory treatment. This is one of the areas in which the European society- the white society- has to change its attitude, and change it quite dramatically. I live in a town that has a large Aboriginal population. Everybody in the town knows that I have supported Aborigines for a long time. So I am not worried about any white backlash. If there were any white backlash I would have copped it years ago, but I have not. I am pleased to know that in areas where the Aboriginal vote can be identified I win that vote. So I feel I have a special responsibility to put my point of view in standing up for those people. 
I am a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs which is looking into alcoholism among Aborigines. We see instances of this around the towns in many areas. The hotel that the Aborigines frequent in Port Augusta where I live is right opposite my office, so I see what goes on. Unfortunately I say this about the town I live in- too many people judge the whole Aboriginal population by what they see at that one hotel. I have said to a few people: 'Come with me and we will watch the high school coming out, or we will look at some people who are settling into the community quite well and have been accepted by their neighbours'. I am afraid our society does not do that. We pick the worst and say that it is a classic example of what the Aboriginal people are. We in the Opposition will play our part because we know that is not true. We cannot take the worst and say it is the average. This is where I think the white community has to change its attitudes. Until we do, the Aboriginal people will be able to get so far and no further. We are giving them greater education. Whilst we have not overcome all the problems we are at least making more facilities available to them. 
Again I come back to the question of unemployment. If we are to give them an education but then close the doors of employment to them- we talk about black power- we will have problems in the future. Whilst we may get away with discrimination against Aborigines who lack education and unsophisticated Aborigines coming out of the bush, we cannot train them, educate them and throw them back on the scrap heap. If we do that we will be creating problems for the future. It is up to us as a Parliament and it is up to the Government and to the Australian Labor Party when it gets back into power to continue the programs that the Labor Government started. My colleague the honourable member for Wills had a great deal to do with putting these programs into effect. I am sure we can go a long way towards overcoming the problems, but if we start cutting back now when we can see the light at the end of the tunnel it will be an insult to the people. It will be a blot on our conscience and an action for which we will pay a price in the future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) With the announced phasing down of operations at the Woomera Rocket Range, is it the intention of the Bureau of Meteorology to reduce or close down the activities of the Bureau at Woomera. 
Is it a fact that, apart from a small office at Oodnadatta, Woomera is the only meteorology station between Adelaide and Alice Springs that can provide information on high level winds and temperatures on that air route. 
If the Woomera station is to be closed down, will this result in a reduced factor of safety on the Adelaide-Alice Springs and other air routes in that vicinity. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
What steps have been taken to re-activate proposals for the establishment of a petrochemical industry at Redcliffs in South Australia? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many positions have been declared redundant at Weapons Research Establishment, Woomera following the announcement of the Care and Maintenance Policy. 
What reductions in Staff have taken place. 
How many employees have been placed in alternate government employment. 
How many employees have been dismissed. 
What reductions in Staff have taken place in private firms engaged in Weapons Research Establishment operations at Woomera. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In view of the phasing down of operations of the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera, is it intended to maintain the operations of the Army Service Canteen Organisation at the establishment; if not, what plans are in hand concerning its operations. 
-Tonight I take the opportunity to raise a matter of vital importance in my electorate in its effect on the largest city in that electorate, the city of Whyalla. The Federal Liberal-Country Party Government has decided in the last few days that the Australian shipbuilding industry must go to the wall. Despite vastly changed circumstances in the industry, the Government has decided to refuse any extra assistance to it. The decision was taken despite the policy adopted last year by the coalition parties. That policy stated: 
An Australian shipbuilding and repair industry is essential to the national interest. The Liberal and Country parties believe Australia must maintain an independent capacity to provide and service the relevant requirements of our commercial shipping and our defence forces. A federal Liberal and Country Parry government will pursue policies which ensure the ship building and repair industry operates as competitively and efficiently as possible. In this we will provide a building subsidy to protect our relatively small but vital industry. 
Yet despite this statement of policy, the Government has taken the decision announced last Friday. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has endeavoured to explain away the decision by blaming the former Labor Government. The Labor Government did not give any authorisation for the four 15 000 ton Australian National Line ships to be built overseas. The Liberal Country Party Government has given that authorisation. It is now considering giving authorisation for the importing of a further 4 ships, all of which could be built in Australian yards. Included in these 4 ships are two general cargo vessels for Broken Hill Pty Ltd, itself the owner of the largest shipyard in Australia. Of course, where dollars count values such as loyalty to the nation and to one's own employees get short shrift. If BHP receives permission from this Government to import these 2 ships instead of building them in its own yard the employees of the Whyalla shipyards will have a very bleak future to look forward to. 
Whyalla is a large decentralised city that relies on its 2 main secondary industries, namely ship building and steel works, for its very existence. With the possible close down of the shipyards because of the lack of orders, one-third of the main work force can look forward to a very gloomy future. Because of Whyalla 's comparative isolation 245 miles from Adelaide, alternative employment opportunities are just nonexistent. In one trade alone over 800 employees will be made redundant. In making the decision it has made, what plans does the Government have to relocate these people? What of those who have purchased houses in the city? Are they all to be thrown to the wolves? 
Quite recently a statement was made by  Sir Ian  McLennan of BHP that if the ship building industry was not profitable BHP did not feel that it had any responsibility for Whyalla. Is this a natural reaction in a society such as the one we live in? When we look at the real situation at Whyalla we can see how irresponsible such a statement is. The shipyards are outside local boundaries, so they escape many normal responsibilities to local government. The whole infrastructure of Whyalla- housing, water and all the other essential services- has been provided by the South Australian government. The majority of its work force has been recruited overseas, with the Federal Government making the major contribution to the cost through the Department of Immigration. It operates under the Whyalla Indenture Act, which was considered a gift from the South Australian Playford Government with its many advantages to BHP. In view of this can it be said that BHP has no responsibilities to Whyalla? Can it withdraw from the shipyards leaving behind a large pool of unemployment and a host of social problems? It appears that the industry in Whyalla is to receive no further consideration from either the Government or BHP and will be allowed to grind to a standstill. 
Much has been said by Government supporters and the Minister for Transport regarding industrial relations. They have placed the blame on the employees in the industry. But it is a fact that there has been no major industrial dispute at Whyalla for a number of years. Those who saw the television program concerning Newcastle, on  This Day Tonight,  know that there has been no dispute there for quite some time. 
From my own knowledge of industrial relations at Whyalla, the dogmatic approach of the major employer has been one of the main contributing factors in many of the earlier disputes that have taken place. If time allowed I would give some details. However, for a number of years there has been a realisation by the unions that some rationalisation would assist the industry, with unions and employers agreeing to come to some suitable arrangements. In 1974 the previous Australian Labor Party Government sent a delegation overseas to see what was going on. Rank and file members were included in the delegation. However, this Government's decision, if carried out, will not allow those discussions and examinations to show any results. 
In making comparisons between the output of Australian and Japanese yards, the Minister should also examine the more modern equipment in Japanese yards and the much less modern equipment in Australian yards- a legacy of the previous 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule. The more labour intensive Australian yards have to compete with the more capital intensive yards of Japan. 
-I would like to finish the remarks I was making earlier when I referred to the comparison between the Australian and Japanese shipyards. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  should also examine the more modern equipment in Japanese yards and compare it with the much less modern equipment of the Australian yards. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for a wise decision. I was talking about the difference between the more modern Japanese yards and the less modern Australian yards. Our yards are a lot more labour intensive but we have to compete with the more capital intensity yards of Japan. Added to that is the fact that with the much larger volume of production in that country, economies of scale can be achieved. As a maritime nation and a great trading nation, it will be a blot on our conscience if we allow the shipyards at Whyalla and Newcastle to close and leave ourselves to the mercy of overseas shipbuilders. It is not too late for the Government to reverse its decision- a course I would recommend and a course I hope it will adopt. The Liberal-National Country Party Government has been in office now for 9 months. It is too late for it to blame all its ills on the former Labor Government. This Government has had time to make its own decisions and it should take the blame for what it has done. 
A couple of months ago the Government set up a committee to examine the shipbuilding yards. Some of the members of that committee listened to what they were told- some of them have made remarks to me- and they have shown concern about industrial relations at Whyalla. They were probably shocked to learn that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd does not recognise the senior trade union body in that city, the Whyalla Combined Union Council. It is essential if we are to achieve industrial harmony in these areas that the trade union organisations be represented. It would be very interesting to know- we will probably never know- what that Liberal committee which visited the shipyards recommended to the Government and whether it recommended the course of action that was taken. I repeat that it was not a good decision by the Government. It is not too late for the Government to reverse that decision. The Opposition certainly hopes that it will do so in the interests of the Australian nation and the people in the shipyards of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What reductions in staff have taken place in the Australian National Railways Commission as a direct result of the Governments policy. 
What reductions have taken place in respect of (a) salaried and (b) wages staff in each of the Branches of the Commission. 
Have reductions taken place in line maintenance gangs; if so, what are the details. 
Are line maintenance gang numbers being maintained at a level that will ensure safe railway operations. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has there yet been an irrevocable signing of the necessary documents to allow the construction in Japan of the four 15 000-ton Australian National Line and the two 13 000-ton Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd ships? 
I rise to support the matter of public importance put before the House by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I would like to say, first of all, that I feel that by using such expressions as 'the Halfpennys', 'the Carmichaels' and so forth the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is trying to create a smokescreen to hide the fact that the Government has made a decision, which I think is an irrevocable decision, regarding the orders placed overseas for four 15 000-tonners. The Minister made some complimentary remarks about the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  It is a pity that what came out of that overseas mission which was set up by the previous Minister has not been given a chance of being put into operation. I know what is contained in the report that the members of that mission produced, and I have spoken to some of the people who were part of that overseas mission. Unfortunately, the decision that the present Government has taken will not allow the recommendations made by the mission to be put into operation. However, I will leave that matter to the honourable member for Newcastle who, I understand, will speak later in the debate. 
I support fully the matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I believe that he has raised this matter because he feels, as all members of the Labor Party would feel, that unless some additional action is taken by the Government we will see the disappearance of a vital industry- the Australian shipbuilding industry. We in the Labor Party have maintained as an essential part of our policy that we must have a shipbuilding capacity in this country in addition to the urgent need for this nation to operate, man and maintain a viable fleet of ships for both our coastal and our overseas trade. It is ironical that the present Government, in a joint policy statement on transport issued prior to the 1975 election, maintained that it supported the maintenance of what it called 'our relatively small but vital industry'. The honourable member for Port Adelaide has already referred to other parts of that policy. So we certainly have seen a bit of change in policy since prior to the last election. 
However, despite approaches to the responsible Ministers in the Government by all sections of the industry- the shipbuilders, the unions and other interested bodies- the Government has decided that it is not prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that this vital industry will continue to function in Australia. By deciding not to take the necessary action it has placed in jeopardy the jobs of many thousands of men who are presently employed in the industry in the 2 main shipbuilding centres of Whyalla and Newcastle. Because of the number of jobs to be declared redundant and because of the effect that that will have on all of those people indirectly involved, the number of jobs lost will grow to a much higher figure. 
The Government is taking this action at a time when it appears that unemployment will reach the highest figure since the depression years. It is apparently ignoring the importance of the industry as a part of our defence setup. Whilst the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has stated that no naval ships will be built in those two main yards, they would certainly be called on to play a very significant part in our defence setup should this country be in some danger. Both the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  have been most blatant in heaping all the blame for the decisions they have made on the unions and on the Labor Party. They ignore what has happened over the last few years. There have been no major disputes involving the major unions in the industry. During an interview last week on the television program  This Day Tonight,  in which unionists from Newcastle were interviewed, it was stated that there had been only 2 half-day stoppages in 18 months. In the other centre, Whyalla, there has not been a major dispute for a number of years. There have been minor peripheral disputes, but no major disputes. But I am afraid that the Government fails to recognise the efforts of the unionists in the industry and their record over the last few years. 
What of the other facet of the industry which Government supporters have continually thrown up? I refer to the issue of demarcation, an issue that has been recognised by responsible trade union leaders in the industry for many years, one that has been the subject of discussion between unions for a very long time. In discussing this matter of public imprtance, perhaps we could look at an article concerning the shipbuilding industry which was written recently by the shipping correspondent for the  Newcastle Morning Herald.  It states: 
The Government's decision on shipbuilding (and the Newcastle graving dock) becomes increasingly sinister the more one looks into it. The most appalling implication is that the Government is coldbloodedly prepared to sacrifice the jobs of 6300 workers directly employed in Australian shipyards (and affects the livelihood of several thousand others) because of its obsession with having a balanced Budget. 
The article further goes on to say: 
The real crime of the Federal Government's decision, whatever the causes, is that it comes at a time when prospects for a stable and efficient shipbuilding industry looked the best they have been in the chequered history of the industry in this country. Following a number of initiatives taken by the previous Labor Government, there was a new and surprisingly durable accord between managements and unions in the industry. The prospect of a single shipbuilding industry award, ending demarcation disputes and tailchasing wage claims, actually appeared likely where two years ago such an idea was laughable. 
The article then went on to say: 
The industry should have been given the chance to build these four ships. 
That refers to the four 15 000-tonne Australian National Line ships. The article continues: 
If it failed to deliver them on rime or if costs went up too steeply due to dockyard workers' wage demands or time lost through disputes then the industry would have deserved a sentence of sudden death. 
In view of the improvements that have been made in the past 12 months it certainly did not deserve the death sentence passed on it by a penny-pinching government obsessed only with what it can save in the short term. 
The Government has to admit that there has been progress in this field, because a number of unions which formerly were separate are now under the one organisation. Only a few weeks ago the announcement was made that the shipwrights had voted to amalgamate with the main union in the industry- I know this stirs up a few honourable members opposite- the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Whilst the historical practices and jealousies of the craft unions die hard, it is a fact that in both the major centres discussions with management have been going on regarding flexibilities between the various trades. Given time most of these matters would have been sorted out in an effort to make the yards more efficient and economical, but the Government is apparently not prepared to give the industry the time to work out these matters. Being in close contact with Whyalla unionists, I am aware of their great concern for the industry and their realisation that some rationalisation of it is necessary. There were 2 members of the Whyalla shipyard on the overseas mission to which I referred earlier, and I have had a chance to discuss these matters with them. 
However, all the problems do not hinge on the people working in the industry. For more than 20 years there was no long term plan for the industry which required the updating of the yards so that they could effectively compete with the more modern overseas yards. Whilst the Government has been trying to blame the former Labor Government for all its ills, the real culprit is the Government itself. It had every opportunity during its 23 years of rule to take the necessary steps to ensure that our yards kept up with the more modern yards established overseas so that they would be able to compete successfully. The Government, however, has decided to take the decision it announced last Friday in a period when there is a general world-wide slump in shipbuilding, in a period when we have to compete with quotes for ships that are at prices that can be described only as 'dumped prices'. 
Professor Fink made reference in the paper he prepared recently to this particular problem. An article which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  recently stated that some Japanese yards have been agreeing to loss-making contracts to ensure continuity of work. I would like to know whether any of our 15 000-tonners are included in that. The ankle further stated: 
Prices being quoted for some ships are $2m less than last autumn and are as much as 30 per cent below West European prices. 
With Korean yards in a position to undercut Japan by a considerable margin, how can our yards be expected to compete successfully without sufficient government assistance? Yet it is at this time that the present Government has made its decision not to make more assistance available to the industry. It is endeavouring to place the blame for that on the former Government, but the real blame lies with the Liberal-Country Parry Government that lasted for 23 years. Perhaps we can have a look at some of the views held by the present Minister for Transport when he was in Opposition. Last year, when he tried to place the whole blame on the Labor Party, he said: 
There has not been a stable market in Australia for shipbuilders. Instead we have had a stop-go situation which has resulted in confusion as  to  the long term prospects, and investment decisions have been based on the wrong criteria- 
Again the Minister said that they were caused by the Labor Government, even though his Government had been in office for 23 years. He went on to say: 
It has also meant that the skilled work force which is essential to a sound shipbuilding industry has not been given the confidence and long term security which is required in order to ensure productivity and the maintenance of skills - again caused by the Labor Government. 
The Minister's Party had been in office for 23 years yet he blamed the Australian Labor Government for the shipbuilding industry's problems. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-There are a few comments that I wish to make about a matter that has received a great deal of attention today. I refer to the shipbuilding industry. 
Government supporters- Oh, no! 
It is honourable members opposite who are starting to get worried about this matter. Before I deal with that matter, I wish to make a few comments about what was said yesterday by some honourable members opposite. In particular, my feelings were rather hurt by what was said by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  to the effect that I had to be virtually dragged here yesterday to speak in the debate on the Australian Shipbuilding Industry and that eventually I did so very reluctantly. In fact, it was almost a case of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and I coming to blows because one of us had to stand down in the debate. However, as the Government relented and allowed 3 speakers from the Opposition, we both had a go. However, I do feel that the honourable member was being a little unjust to the Opposition in relation to that point. During the last session of the Parliament I raised this very question during the Grievance debate. The shipbuilding industry was the subject of a number of questions I put - 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. In view of the completion of the sealing of the Eyre Highway in South Australia as a result of the national roads program introduced by the former Government and the official opening of the highway on 28 September, is the Minister able to release any information on the inquiry into the new route of the Stuart Highway from Port Augusta to Alice Springs? When is it anticipated that work on the construction of the new Stuart Highway will commence, a highway also declared under the national roads program as a national highway? 
-I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this House last week. I think the main words are contained in the first part of the amendment which reads: 
I) it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
I think that is our main criticism of this Budget because to our way of thinking it does appear that the Government is seeing only one problem and that is the problem of inflation. We certainly accept that there is a great problem with the inflation that is besetting not only Australia but most other countries throughout the world. However, there are other problems which we feel this Budget does not take into account. I think this has been pointed out by previous speakers. The unemployment figure which has been cited certainly indicates that the Government is not placing the emphasis on reducing unemployment that we feel it should. It appears as though the Government is prepared to let the unemployment level go up to an extremely high level as long as it gets on top of inflation. We are not opposed to measures to bring down the inflation rate, but we feel that matters of human concern to the Australian people should also be receiving consideration. On the question of the unemployment figure, there have certainly been attempts to bide the real unemployment figure. We will see very shortly that this figure will no longer include the number of school leavers who are unemployed because they will not be entitled to receive the unemployment benefit. For that reason I feel we will be getting a false unemployment figure. We feel again that this is a typical Liberal approach to solving a situation such as that which we face today. 
If those with a sense of history think back to the early 1950s they will recall that following the 1949 election the then Prime Minister, Bob Menzies, said his Government would put value back into the pound. Those honourable members who have been here for some time will remember that by 19S2 inflation reached the highest level in Australia's history, despite what people have said over the last couple of years. How did the then Liberal Government try to get out of the problem at that time? It supported all the applications for the abolition of the cost of living adjustments before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and it was successful. That Government used the ordinary worker's wage as a means of trying to overcome inflationary problems. It succeeded in pegging what the workers were receiving at that time. That was an era when that Government was supposed to be putting value back into the pound. 
We see the same thing happening today. In 1974 when there was a fair amount of pressure on the position of wages the then Minister for Labour, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  put up a proposition about wage indexation. A number of unions did not support wage indexation at the time. Some of them do not fully accept it now, but they did feel that in the situation that arose at that time and under the pressures that were applying, they should give indexation a go. The Liberal and Country Parties are now trying to do away with the indexation proposals and this is despite the promise which was made prior to the election that it would maintain indexation. Despite the fact that indexation has generally been accepted by the unions the Government is now trying to water it down and in the last few applications which have been before the Commission it has put its proposal in an effort to ensure that the real wages of the employees in this country will be reduced. I do not think that is the way a government should attack inflation- by reducing the living standards of the ordinary employees in industry. I am sure that if the Government succeeds in abolishing the wages indexation concept the people in the unions will not take it lying down. I think the best way to approach this is to leave indexation alone. I am sure that others in industry will play their part. 
This raises the question of whether it is possible to trust this Government because prior to the election the then Leader of the Opposition said his Party would support indexation. This Government has certainly withdrawn that promise, so people cannot trust this Government. This Government certainly has a list of broken promises. We have been told today what a marvellous thing Medibank is at the present time. Again, it is a fact that prior to the election the then Leader of the Opposition said that in office his Government would not touch Medibank, but we have seen Medibank emasculated. Instead of having one scheme which applied before we now have 3 schemes. We are not opposed to the imposition of a levy to pay for Medibank because in government we put forward this same concept but, of course, at that time the Liberal-Country Party Opposition which had control of the Senate rejected our proposal to impose a levy to finance the scheme. I personally am not opposed to a levy. I realise that the imposition of the levy means a reduction in wages but I feel the levy should be closer to the figure we intended to impose, that is, 1.35 per cent of income instead of 2'/i per cent. Bear in mind that there are 3 other schemes in addition to the basic Medibank proposal. 
We can talk not only about Medibank but also about some of the other health proposals that I feel are being ignored or certainly cut back in this Budget. This is quite evident in my own electorate. The establishment of community health centres is going to be cut back, as one Liberal supporter said earlier in respect of health care in outlying areas under the community health program introduced by the previous Minister for Health,  Dr Doug  Everingham, the Minister established community health centres in outback areas. If anyone doubts the truth of this statement he can come and have a look at what has been done in my electorate. Altogether, there were 7 community health centres either agreed to or established while he was the Minister for Health. Only a couple of weeks ago, I attended the opening of one at Port Lincoln. The project cost between $800,000 and $900,000. It certainly stands as a monument to the work of that former Minister for Health. I am never backward in giving recognition to what that Minister did and how he allowed health care to be taken to the more outback areas so that people living there could receive the health care to which they were entitled. 
I have said that 7 community health centres all told were established. Some were quite small, some were of medium size. Some were constructed in towns with populations between 1000 people and 1500 people. Other big centres such as Port Lincoln also received community health centres. Certainly, this was of great credit to  Dr Doug  Everingham, the former Minister for Health. It is a fact that in this Budget the amount of finance provided for the community health centres will be cut back. I do not know just what effect it will have but certainly this takes all the impetus out of the program which was established previously. 
I wish to say a few words about another matter that affects my electorate quite considerably. I refer to the cutback in the vote for Aboriginal Affairs. According to the Budget Papers, this vote has been cut back by $33m. In percentage terms, this represents an 18 per cent cut-back. I know the Government has said that possibly it will look at some things later on, but I know the great concern that is felt not only by the Aborigines themselves but also by those people who are concerned about the Aboriginal question. They wonder what the effect will be. Everywhere I have been in my electorate over the last few months, this concern has been expressed. It has been expressed not only in my electorate. I went to the Northern Territory about 2 months ago. The same concern was expressed to me up there concerning projects which it was hoped would be carried out but which may get the chop because of the cut-back in the finance available. There is a housing project under way at Coober Pedy. It has been going along quite well. I was told that the houses built cost $25,000 each. A European type house could not be build in that remote area of Coober Pedy for $25,000. But this was the cost of the last house which they constructed. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  agreed to the establishment of a new village to replace an eyesore outside Port Augusta- the Davenport reserve, a place of rundown, second-rate buildings, shacks and so forth. But what happened? The previous Government decided to establish the new village and, of course, the plans were drawn up. Originally I think there were to be 53 houses. At the present time, 14 houses have been completed. Again concern has been expressed as to whether they will ever get their 53 houses or whether the project will stop at its present stage of development. 
I can mention other areas that I visited where the same concern was expressed. I can remember visiting Yuendumu where a pipeline project was to be undertaken. Water was to be piped in to give the settlement a permanent water supply. From memory, I think the water was to be piped 9 kilometres. Here again, concern was expressed as to whether that project would go ahead. Another point that concerned the people, apart from the supply of water, was that projects such as these provide employment opportunities for people on their settlement. It is a pretty isolated place. I think it is situated about 1 80 miles northwest of Alice Springs. The project provided employment opportunities for the people on the reserve. Such projects are in jeopardy. They may or may not get their money. Also, there has been a cut-back in the amount of finance available for the health services for Aborigines. We know of the high mortality rates in some areas. This is one area of expenditure which should not have been touched. Apparently, these health services will be cut. When we look at what was said by the previous shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs just prior to the election, we wonder how this happened. He sent a telegram and told the Aboriginal people they had nothing to be afraid of, that they would be better off under a Liberal government and that finance would not be cut. I think this now sounds a little hollow. The whole matter was put pretty clearly by  Senator Bonner,  himself an Aborigine.  His  statements are reported in the  Age  newspaper of Thursday, 19 August 1976. The article reads: 

 Senator Bonner said the Federal Government had broken a promise before the December election that Aboriginal welfare spending would be maintained. 'I supported that and I worked to see it maintained', he said. 
Further on he states: 
What can I say to my people? How can we expect the Government to keep its second promise to increase Aboriginal spending when it cannot keep the first? I am shocked and gravely concerned. I never dreamt my Party could treat the Aboriginal people in such a callous way. 
Further on in the article he stated: 
How can I go out and ask my people to work for increases in the allocation for Aboriginal affairs? My people will say to me: ' How can you believe the Government will not lie twice '. 
The Government should have a look at this question because I think that we should look at our own consciences. If we are to make cuts in those areas I think we should be ashamed of ourselves. One other area that will be cut- here again, it has been quite evident in my electorate- is children's services. I have received letters from all over the electorate written by people connected with kindergartens. They were very concerned about a circular put out by the Minister. Implicit in the letter was the threat that financing of kindergartens could go back to the States. Of course, the same thing applied to child care centres. People connected with these centres were concerned about what would happen with them. Once again, this is a case in which progressive programs were introduced by the previous Government and accepted by the people connected with kindergartens. Now, they do not know what the future holds for them. They are in the position of wondering where they will go. It is certainly a step backwards from the progressive policies put forward by the Whitlam Labor Government. 
Perhaps I could refer to another area. Last night the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  spoke about the provision of aged persons' homes. He made the statement that the Labor Government cut off all the finance in this area. I will concede that last year we sent out notices to the various people connected with these projects in which it was stated that there would be deferments. But the deferments were brought about for a reason completely different from the one mentioned by the honourable member. When we came to power, we increased the subsidy for aged persons' homes. The result was that in many areas people who had not had programs before decided then to introduce programs to provide accommodation for their old folk. In my electorate at the present time there are 9 such projects proposed but not yet under way. A couple of weeks ago I received a statement from  Senator Guilfoyle,  the Minister for Social Security, listing all the projects and what projects would be funded in this year. One of those 9 projects to which I have referred was to be funded. The statement also said that we would hear later on about the other projects. I repeat that of those 9 projects, one will be funded this year. Next year none will be funded. In the following year, 1978-79, one project for 8 beds will be funded. There has been a considerable cutback in the finance available in that area. 
Of course, in addition to this is the fact that any subsidy, previously available for senior citizen clubs has been reduced and the amount of subsidy available to build the homes themselves has also been reduced. I submit that we are seeing a step back in this area. Of course, what we are doing is making the less fortunate people in our society carry the burden for the actions taken as a result of this Budget. This is the case with the aged persons' homes which are designed for the aged and the infirm. I might say that many of them are in small country towns with populations ranging from 800 people to 1000 people. The people want their older folk to be able to reside in the towns in which they have lived all their lives. Many of these projects will be held back for possibly 3 or 4 years because of the policies this Government is establishing. 
I mention yet another matter that affects many of pensioners. I refer to the fact that there was no adjustment made in the means test as it applies to the pensioner medical service. I have in my electorate many people who receive small superannuation payments. But what has happened? Most of those superannuation payments are made to people who are recipients of Commonwealth superannuation and those payments have been indexed. These people paid throughout their working lives a fair proportion of their income into the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. With this indexation that has taken place, their income is above the permissible limit which is $33 for a single persons and $57 for married persons. Although the payments have been indexed, these people are going further behind because once they reach that line- $33 for a single person and $57 for a married person- they lose their pensioner medical cards. They lose all that goes with it- their telephone concessions, their concessions for water rates, general rates and all these sorts of concessions. 
I have written to the Minister for Social Security about this matter. I hope that the Government will have a close look at it because the cut-out line for the entitlement to pensioner medical service cards has not been altered for a number of years. In fairness to those people the position should be rectified to ensure that because their superannuation pension is indexed, they are not deprived of the benefits to which they are entitled. The position is certainly very unfair at present. I should like to see the Minister for Social Security take this step to raise the level of pensioner entitlement card limit to ensure that those people who have an entitlement do not lose it because of an indexation payment. The means test itself should be either abolished or at least indexed. 
The Government should also be ashamed of the fact that there has been no increase in the supplementary benefits paid to those people if they have to pay rent. It hits the people who are worse off- the widows, the supporting mothers and all those sorts of people. As I say, there has been no increase in this benefit. The Government expects a 12 per cent increase in wages because of inflation and so forth but it still has not altered the amount of the supplementary benefits. I will give honourable members some idea of just what effect this will have on the recipients of social security benefits. Fifty per cent of supporting mothers, 30 per cent of widows, 50 per cent of invalid pensioners and 14 per cent of age pensioners who receive that benefit will not receive an increase in supplementary benefit. 
I realise my time is running out and I should like to conclude by quoting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. It asks the House to condemn the Budget because: 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants, and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. 
I support the amendment. 
-I ask the Treasurer: Can he assure the House that persons who have not lodged health insurance levy exemption forms with their employers by today and who subsequently purchase private health insurance on or before 1 October will not be forced to make an extended loan to the Taxation Department if the levy is deducted from their salary? Will the Treasurer also confirm that a working wife whose husband is paying the levy at the family rate will not have the levy deducted from her salary and be forced to make a similar loan to the Taxation Department? 
-I rise to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  for the suspension of Standing Orders to debate the matter placed before the House today by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  I think that the concern that exists in both Newcastle and Whyalla about the effects of this Industries Assistance Commission report must be realised. It is all right for the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to say that the contents of this report are the same as those which the Australian Labor Party accepted when in government. Things have changed dramatically in the last 3 years in the shipbuilding industry. They have changed dramatically since the presentation of the 1 97 1 Tariff Board report. I think that to make the comparison that the Minister made is very unfair. We have to take into account - 
-Because of the effects of the matters mentioned in this report- the human and regional relations problems that will be created by the adoption of its recommendations I feel that the House should treat it as a matter of urgency and debate it forthwith. While referring to the human problems that are mentioned in the report, I point out that Whyalla has a large migrant population. There is a lack of alternative employment in that area and many people are purchasing their own homes. All these sorts of human problems will be encountered if the recommendations in the report are accepted. Because of this, I feel that the people have a right to know just what the Government's intentions are. 
The Government says that it is waiting until everybody has had a chance to examine the report before it brings down a decision on the matter. I think that it has been thrashed around long enough. We first heard talk of what could happen to the industry earlier this year. There have been deputations and discussions. The subject was referred to the IAC. During this time there has been a cloud hanging over the industry. There has been a grave worry for the people of Newcastle and Whyalla. As Whyalla lies within the electorate of Grey which I represent, I have a particular concern for it because the people look to me to speak for them in this matter. Because of these factors, I feel it is essential that the House cany this motion and that the matter be discussed forthwith so that some concrete proposal can be put forward. I support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that the Minister for Health stated on 20 May that the Government had decided to eliminate the tax rebate for all health insurance premiums from 1 October to avoid the confusion that would inevitably result if some premiums were tax deductible and others were not? Can he assure the House that the Government will introduce amending legislation which will ensure that all health insurance premiums, including premiums for health insurance in excess of standard ward cover, paid before 1 October will not be tax deductible this financial year? 
I should like to make a few comments on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I know that to date the Opposition has been fairly strong in condemning the Government for the cut of $33m in this year's estimates for the Department. Today the Government announced, through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  that a further $25m will be made available. However, that still represents a cut of $8m on last year's estimates. 
It does, otherwise the honourable member is pretty crook at figures. It represents a large percentage drop over last year's estimates and certainly does not take into account the effect of inflation, which the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said earlier was 12 per cent. One of the matters which concerns all those people who are interested in Aboriginal affairs is the problem of housing. The effect in my own area has been made fairly clear. In the various areas where building societies have been established and efforts made to provide housing for Aborigines, great concern has been expressed to me about what the future will hold. I refer to one particular project, the new Davenport project outside Port Augusta, which was to replace sub-standard housing. The project was approved by the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and, from memory, S3 houses were to be built. To date 14 homes have been completed. They are all large homes, obviously designed to cater for the larger Aboriginal families. The roads and gutters have been laid and all the other faculties are available. Let us hope that the project does not stop at the 14 houses that are there now. Any cutbacks in this area will mean that the project will not be completed in the way that the previous Minister,  Senator Cavanagh,  envisaged when he authorised it to proceed. 
The question of housing is also a matter of concern to the State Minister for Housing,  Mr Hudson.  In a statement reported in a newspaper the other day he condemned the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for the cutbacks that took place in relation to South Australia. In a letter to the Minister,  Mr Hudson  stated that the allocation for general housing for Aboriginals in South Australia had been cut from $2,507,900 in 1975-76 to $313,000 this financial year. The report states: 
This will mean the S.A. Housing Trust will be able to finance the completion of only 24 new houses this year',  Mr Hudson  said yesterday. 
Last year the trust was able to house 111 Aboriginal families. ' 
In his letter ...  Mr Hudson  told  Mr Viner  'Your action has disrupted a program which has been running smoothly and effectively in S.A. with significant social benefits for the Aboriginal people and for the society of the State as a whole. 
The action of your Government will create and perpetuate over-crowding of families in sub-standard conditions. ' 

 Mr Hudson said the Federal Government had given an undertaking not to reduce spending on Aboriginal affairs. 
He was referring to the telegrams sent by the then shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr 
Ellicott, prior to the last election in which Aboriginals were told they had nothing to fear from a Liberal government; that there would be no cuts.  Mr Hudson  concluded: 
In making an official announcement of Government policy on that date he - 
That is  Mr Ellicott  - was reported to have committed your Government to the view "that Aboriginal people are entitled to receive additional funds by reason of their past dispossession and dispersal. " 
I believe this Government and the Aboriginal people were entitled to rely on that statement in their expectations and future planning. ' 
The following day in South Australia a statement attributed to a South Australian Liberal senator suggested that the amount of $313,000 which had been quoted as the South Australian allocation was to be increased by approximately $100,000. I certainly hope that $100,000 is not all that South Australia will get from the extra $2 5m allocation announced today by the Minister. I do not know whether prior information was given to the South Australian senator, but that amount would increase the allocation to about a quarter of last year's allocation. 
I think everyone recognises the importance of housing projects. I do not think we can move on to anything else until inroads are made into this problem. Earlier I mentioned Port Augusta, which is in my electorate. In Coober Pedy, where there is a housing society, the same concern has been expressed about what the future holds for its housing program. It is an area where housing for Aborigines is extremely bad. The report of the Senate Select Committee on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders referred to the number of Aboriginals who live in makeshift accommodationold burntout motorcar bodies and so forth. In many areas of my electorate, such as at Coober Pedy, Aborigines utilise this sort of accommodation. It is in such areas that people have been tackling the problem. Any cutback in the funds made available for Aboriginal housing will put a stop to the efforts of these people to provide decent housing. 
I move from the housing area to the question of education. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs earlier today mentioned that education had an extremely important part to play in the development of Aboriginal people in that if they did not have that basic background it made it much more difficult for them to obtain employment. However, I instance various areas in the Budget in which there have been expenditure cutbacks. Expenditure under the Aboriginal secondary grants scheme is estimated at $8.4m in 1976-77 compared with $8.6m in 1975-76. That is a drop of only $200,000, but when a 12 per cent inflation rate is taken into account, that drop is considerably more than it appears on paper. Total expenditure on the Aboriginal study grant scheme is estimated at $1.6m in 1976-77 compared with $1.8m in 1975-76. Again, there is a marginal drop in the expenditure but when the inflation rate is taken into account, it becomes a considerable drop. The Budget Papers refer also to the education of Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory. Last year, $22. lm was provided for this purpose compared with $ 16.3m this year. It is stated that the decrease in proposed expenditure reflects a reduction of $6.1m in expenditure on Aboriginal school buildings. I do not believe that there is a need to decrease that sort of activity. But taken overall, that decrease in expenditure certainly reflects a drop in the education facilities made available for Aboriginal people. 
I refer now to the problem of the health of Aboriginals. Although it could be said that the cut is not much, it is still there, the expenditure being reduced from $2 1 .5m last year to $20m this year. Perhaps I may be transgressing from our discussion of the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, but the fact remains that there was a government to government policy and there has been a drop in the expenditure in this area. How can there be such expenditure cuts when everybody knows that the health problems confronting Aboriginal people, particularly in some of the remote areas, have not been solved? The report of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders dealt with  the question of infant mortality. Although some progress has been made in this field over the last few years, we still cannot hold up our heads with pride. In 1965, the infant mortality rate per thousand live births was 144 deaths. Although progressively we have cut down that infant mortality rate to 50 deaths per 1000 live births, the figure still represents about 3V4 times the infant mortality rate of white Australians. How can we cut back the finance made available in this area? I feel that I am involved personally. Figures are often cited for the Northern Territory, but I understand that those figures take into account the South Australian north-west Aboriginal area, which falls within my electorate. I know the conditions prevailing there. When we talk about the infant mortality rate, it concerns my electorate because of the people who live in the north-west Aboriginal area. Although the cutback in expenditure is not great, when the inflation rate is taken into account, we can see that it is more considerable. 
Turning to the question of employment, we find that restrictions have been placed on the expenditure of those people endeavouring to find employment for Aboriginal people. Because of the Government cutbacks in expenditure, those people have not been able to carry out their functions in the way in which it was originally proposed that they should. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
by leave- As one who signed the minority section of the report on the permit system, together with the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  perhaps it is only right that I should say a few words. I do not want to take up too much of the time of the House, but I certainly hope that the contents of this report, as other honourable members have stated, are a long way from being the contents of the final report. In this report we certainly have not gone into the social causes and so forth. I think that a deeper study is needed to discover the various reasons why this problem does exist. 
When the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs visits the various States to examine the problems there and to gain all the information that is available I am sure that it will take into account all the other factors that come under consideration. It is to be hoped that the Committee can pinpoint in its final report some of the main points about this problem. It is a fact that the problem varies from area to area and from situation to situation. It varies between the urban situation, the fringe dweller situation and in the various settlements away from the major cities. As the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  has said, I am sure that this report will be taken as being only a short term report and that the final report will cover more fully all those social aspects that possibly are not covered so much in this report. 
I would like to make a few comments on the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  He mentioned the allocations that were announced by the Grants Commission yesterday. Prior to the Labor Government coming to office finance was not made available to local government through the Grants Commission. It was not until the Labor Government came to office that the legislation was enacted to enable the Federal Government to assist local government to overcome its problems. Local government was the poor relation in the 3-tier government system in Australia. It was completely ignored prior to the Labor Government coming to office. Thanks to legislation introduced by the Labor Government local government bodies could expect to receive assistance from the Grants Commission. 
I think that people are playing around with figures. They say that there has been a big increase in the amounts allocated by the Grants Commission. If one looks at the Grants Commission in isolation that may be so. But the Labor Government adopted a policy in the field of education and in other areas of allocating money where there was a need. This policy applied to education in particular but it also applied to local government. 
Local government councils were helped considerably when the former Labor Government issued untied grants through the Grants Commission. The honourable member for Kingston stated that councils in his electorate were very pleased with the amounts they had received. I am sure that if one compared the figures for the amounts that were received by the councils in South Australia during the term of the Labor Government- unfortunately I did not know that the honourable member intended to raise this matter tonight or I would have brought them with me- with what has been allocated in the last few days one would find that the amounts allocated by the present Government fall far short of what was allocated by the Labor Government. Because of the policy of the Labor Government of applying finance where it was needed many councils received additional finance by way of tied grants or grants for special projects because they had a special need. 
I refer to the council of which I am a ratepayer- the Port Augusta Council. This council has a large Aboriginal population. It received assistance by way of special grants so that it could employ Aboriginals on various projects. The Labor Government suggested certain areas throughout Australia where there was a particular need and set up pilot area improvement programs. The northern areas of South Australia were to be allocated an amount of $500,000 each year, divided between the 9 councils in that area, to carry out particular projects. These factors must be taken into consideration when one makes any comparison between the amounts given during the period of office of the Labor Government and the amounts given by this Government. The Labor Government was prepared to allocate money in area where there was a need for that money. Every council received some assistance through the Grants Commission according to the programs which they were prepared to submit. Where there was a special need the Labor Government went beyond what was given by the Grants Commission and supplied extra finance so that those councils could overcome particular problems. 
I conclude by saying that the Labor Government set a standard that had not applied before. The finance and assistance that were given to local government previously by Liberal-Country Party governments was practically nil. It was not until the Labor Government took office and set a precedent in deciding that local government, as the poor relation, was entitled to its share of federal taxation, that these reforms were introduced. As I said earlier, the Labor Government established the practice by the Grants Commission of allocating finance to the various councils to assist them with their problems. It also took into consideration areas of need and made allocations to overcome the problems in particular areas. It set a standard. The present Government is only trying to emulate that standard. If one sits down and totals the figures of what has been allocated in the last few days, I am afraid it shows that the Government has failed. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry I wish firstly to endorse the remarks of the 2 previous speakers from this side of the chamber- the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  They both drew attention to the fact that certain promises were made by honourable members opposite prior to the last election. It is quite obvious that those promises are not going to be kept. Reference was also made to the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. When this subject again comes up for debate some honourable members opposite will be reminded of what they said on a previous occasion and how they have now changed their minds. 
Let us go back to the period a few years prior to the Labor Government coming to office in 1 972. On the basis of the record of honourable members opposite then we cannot expect their record in the primary industry field to be as good as the promises that they made during the election campaign. During the few years prior to the Labor Government coming to office many of Australia's rural industries, including the wool and wheat industries, were in dire straits. I always say that it is very handy for a politician to have a short memory, but it is handier for the politician if his electors have shorter memories and forget about what has happened in the past. If people were to go back over the years prior to the Labor Government coming to office- the late 1960s and early 1970s- and looked at the position of the rural industries in those years I am quite sure that they would not support the Government parties quite as much as they do. 
I am prepared to admit that the people engaged in the rural industries support the present Government, but I think that they do so more as a tradition than anything else. If they were to make an independent-minded analysis of the policies of the past and what happened in the past I am sure that there would be more of them voting against the present Government's policies. In the first place I think that the National Country Party of Australia and the Liberal Party of Australia have a vested interest in trying to divide the Australian people. They did it in connection with the war in Vietnam. They do it in connection with the position of rural interests as against city interests in that they say that the Australian Labor Party is anti-rural. Unfortunately they meet with quite some success. Of course, in many areas they control the media- the radio stations, the newspapers and so forth- and as such are able to peddle their own point of view. 
Let us go through some of the industries that were in strife in those years. Perhaps we should start by looking at the Australian wheat industry. For many years the Australian wheat industry suffered because of the policies adopted by honourable members opposite in that they refused to recognise that there was a big market for our wheat in mainland China. Because of their policies Canada was able to beat us to the gun for that market. Although China did come to us early in the piece Canada beat us to that market to the extent that we were practically frozen out until late 1972 when the Chinese, because of their needs, decided to come back to us. They did not come back to us because of the policies of the then Government. They did so because they needed the wheat and they came to Australia for it. 
What happened in this industry because of the short-sighted policies adopted at that time for political reasons? The whole wheat industry had a quota system tied around its neck. Because we did not have the markets, the States had to apply a quota system. I know that it was often said that the States applied the quota system and that the Federal Government did not apply the quota system, but one has to take into consideration the fact that the Federal Government provided the finance for the advance payments for wheat and so forth and was therefore in a position in which it could dictate to the States in this area and that is what it did. So wheat quotas were introduced. Although there were bumper crops in the years prior to the introduction of the wheat quotas there were insufficient storage facilities for that wheat. We saw wheat being stored in anything on a farm that would hold it, including old tanks and plastic bags. There was insufficient storage and there were no markets. 
It was not until the Labor Government came to office that firm commitments were made with the People's Republic of China. The Labor Government decided to recognise that country. As a result our wheat sales to it increased. I think that they were on a much firmer basis than they were previously. The first advance payments for wheat at that time had not been increased for about 8 years. They remained at $1.10 a bushel. One of the first acts of the Labor Government was to increase it to $1.20 a bushel. Two other increases followed. They were the first increases for many years. While we were in government we were at least able to establish firm markets for this product. I understand that the wheat industry is again in trouble and that this time it is because of drought. There have been some good rainfalls recently in some areas of South Australia. It is certainly to be hoped that the industry will get out of its predicament. I am sure that if we were in office the people who sit on the other side of the chamber would be trying to blame us for the drought, too. 
I turn now to the wool industry. It had similar problems in the late 1960s and early 1970s in that prices had dropped considerably. They were down to about 29c a lb. The wool industry is another industry that was forced to its knees during the reign of the previous Government, but what did it do about it? After much argument between the Country Party and the Liberal Party a wool deficiency scheme was introduced. The Country Party pressed for a 40c a lb deficiency scheme, but the scheme that was introduced was based on the sum of 36c a lb. It was a little different from the scheme introduced by the Labor Government. One should compare the scheme introduced by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government with the one introduced by the Labor Government. 
Let us examine the $30m that was distributed to wool growers because of their falling incomes. It was an ad hoc and badly organised scheme. I think even the responsible Minister admitted that there were anomalies in the scheme. That was quite obvious to me by what I was told by various people I know in my electorate who tried to gain some assistance from the scheme. Because of the way in which the conditions were laid down they did not have any hope of obtaining any assistance; yet at the same time some wealthy people were able to get the maximum of $1,500 provided under the scheme. Because the incomes of wool growers had to be a little over 92 per cent of the income of the previous year the battlers got nothing. I can remember being told by one battler in particular, whose income was 92.17 per cent of that of the previous year, that he had $60,000 worth of debts on his farm but he received absolutely nothing, whereas the person next door was able to gain the full $1,500 although he had no debts on his property. It was an ad hoc program that was typical of the programs introduced by the previous Government. It is the sort of thing that Liberal-Country Party governments are inclined to do. 
We introduced a new scheme. It was one which the people in the industry had wanted for quite some time. Our scheme was based on a reserve floor price plan. We made $3 50m available to assist the wool industry. I know that it was not a gift; it was a loan. But it did allow the Australian Wool Corporation to operate on the market and to maintain a decent level of wool prices. It took the humps and hollows out of the market and more or less levelled it out. Whilst it was not the complete solution to the problem it certainly did give the industry a chance to get onto its feet. I know that this year the Government has increased the level of support to 275c per kilo clean, but the point is that the price of wool on the market is somewhere around that figure. So it is not going to cost the Government a great deal. In fact it has been worked out that the Government may be up for only a couple of million dollars. Certainly the scheme introduced by the Labor Government did bring some stability to the wool industry. I am not saying that the wool industry has completely overcome its problems, but it certainly has been in a lot more stable position since the introduction of the Labor Government's scheme than it was in during the three or four years prior to the Labor Party coming to office. 
The next industry I want to discuss is the beef industry. During the bad years that I mentioned earlier the only bright star on the horizon was the beef industry. But what happened to it? Through the adoption of short-sighted policies people were encouraged to increase their beef herds. I know that between 1970 and last year the beef herds in my area increased by  3lA  times. The policies were short-sighted in that although we had allowed our herds to increase we had not provided markets for our beef. We had not allowed for what happened in the European Economic Community and in other markets that we had looked on as being traditional markets. The Liberal-Country Party Government encouraged the increase in our beef herds and over the last 1 8 months we have not had markets. The industry is in an extremely bad way and government assistance is necessary. It was the Labor Government which came to the assistance of producers and provided $90m for low interest loans. Later on that Government entered into a matching scheme with the States to provide further assistance, yet it is the Labor Party which is supposed to be against rural producers. 
-I wish to make a few remarks on the estimates for the Department of Transport. Like the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  I am concerned about the railway systems, and particularly about the Alice Springs-Tarcoola railway. In a statement made last May by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  he said that the Government was looking at economies that could be effected in that railway. Apparently a committee has been set up to study those economies. The result of those inquiries is not yet known, but it would be a retrograde step if any economies were effected which downgraded the standards of the railway. Not very long ago I had the opportunity of examining that railway and watching the operations and the laying of the track, which is of a high standard. It is an allwelded heavy rail track, tied to concrete sleepers and heavily ballasted. It is a first class track, and I hope that any economies which are made do not reduce the standard of the track. My personal view is that if any cuts have to be made it would be better to slow down the job and ensure that the standard is maintained. Any lowering of the standard would possibly mean greater costs later on. I imagine that the heavy track which is there at the present time is for the possible exploitation of the Lake Phillipson coal fields, which are 80 to 100 kilometers up the track. Certainly it is a first class job, thanks to the former Minister for Transport, who initially agreed that it should proceed. 
One other matter dealing with railways on which I hope the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will comment is the arrangement with South Australia for the transfer of the South Australian country lines. I know that discussions have been going on and that a couple of matters relating to the transfer of employees still have to be sorted out. Most of the employees with whom I come into contact who are members of the old South Australian Railways do not know what the future holds for them. I hope that agreement can soon be reached on these outstanding matters so that the transfer can take place. I know that there are problems with such things as superannuation and compensation. Commonwealth compensation does not match the South Australian system, and in relation to superannuation, there are advantages and disadvantages under both systems. I hope that these things can be ironed out and the agreement put into effect at the earliest possible date. 
On the question of highways, the week before last I had the opportunity of attending the opening of the Eyre Highway. The Minister claimed that the highway was built as a result of his report. It may have come from a report of his, but the legislation which brought the national highways program into operation was introduced by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The road is still not completed and there is still some further sealing to be done, when it will be bitumen right through. Now that that job is almost completed, I hope that further consideration will be given to the Stuart Highway, which I know has been the subject of an inquiry because of the route which it will take. It is a fact that the present route is probably longer than it needs to be and I know that an inquiry is being conducted. I trust that once the Eyre Highway is completed the Stuart 
Highway will be contructed in the same expeditious way as that highway was constructed once the national roads program was put into operation. There is one other matter which does intrigue me. I imagine that the route between Port Augusta and Pimba, at the head of the Woomera Rocket Range, will not be altered in any way, but there is still 50 kilometers of roadway between Port Augusta and Pimba that is unsealed. It is a very rough track. I go over it quite often and honourable members can take my word for the fact that it is rough. I cannot understand why that 50 kilometers of track cannot be sealed when at least 1 10 to 1 15 kilometers of the highway has been done. 
In the few minutes I have left I should like to refer to an article in the  Advertiser  of 9 October referring to the question of shipbuilding. The Premiers of South Australia, of course, has been very concerned about the effect on Whyalla of the closure of the shipyards there. According to this newspaper report, he has made some modified submissions to the Government, and perhaps I could refer to them. The report states: 
. the South Australian Government cannot accept the validity of the arguments presented by the IAC in its report. 
It says acceptance of the modified S.A. proposals would have many benefits and assist the Commonwealth in its economic policies by 
 Preventing the needless creation of about 8000 unemployed with the associated social and economic problems; 
Saving a potential outflow of $60m to $ 1 00m each year on overseas ship purchase. 
Assisting decentralised industries to become viable. 
The report goes on further: 
The Government's - 
That is the South Australian Government- modified proposals in the submission are: 
Import restrictions should remain, with approval to import new ships depending on the local industry's ability to produce the vessel. 
The rate of decrease in the subsidy to be slowed, with the subsidy to be cut to 30 per cent only by 1 980. 
For all vessels with keels laid after December 31, 1977, the State and Federal governments to make dollarfordollar payments to meet the difference between the aftersubsidy price and overseas prices. 
The Commonwealth to establish a special fund for lending to ship operators with lower rates of interest 
The States to offer capital investment grants on a one dollar for four dollars basis for capital expenditure in upgrading the yards. 
Unless the yards improve productivity by 15 per cent to the end of 1980, the yard should be deregistered and no longer eligible for assistance. 
A clause to ensure that shipbuilders do not take advantage of their protected position. 
The article goes on: 
The submission criticises the IAC claim that there is no prospect of reducing the disadvantages of the two Australian shipyards. 
It says the IAC has used the worst performances of Whyalla and Newcastle as a general yardstick for the industry. 
I certainly hope that the Government will give greater consideration to what has been put, not only by the Premier of South Australia but also by the Premier of New South Wales, in an effort to maintain the 2 shipyards. I should like to comment on that part of the report which states that the Industries Assistance Commission has used the worst performances of Whyalla and Newcastle as a general yardstick for the industry. First of all, the worst performances of Whyalla and Newcastle can be attributed to the fact that the industries in both those places are hopelessly out of date when compared with the most modern yards overseas. Recently the Newcastle  Herald  sent a correspondent to Japan, who sent back articles on the Japanese shipyards. Those articles demonstrate the problems of our own yards with their lack of modern equipment, smaller cranes and so on, and indicate the reason why the industry here cannot compete. I feel that too much emphasis has been placed on the question of industrial relations. There are times when industrial relations in shipyards have not been good. But over the last 2 years I do not think that that claim can be directed at either the Whyalla or Newcastle shipyards. 
Some quite odd figures have emerged from time to time on the amount of time lost through industrial disputes and so forth at these yards. I know that when I checked with the South Australian Department of Labor and Industry, I was able to correct the claims of a Government member about the number of disputes at the Whyalla yard. The figures that he gave were completely wrong. He said that last year 12 ^ per cent of all available working time was lost due to industrial disputes. When I checked the figure, I found that it was less than 1 per cent. The case was the same in relation to the previous year. It was a much lower figure than the one he cited. Some completely wrong statements have been made about industrial relations in shipyards. In fact, I think that the question of industrial relations has become a way of justifying the decision that has been taken to build ships overseas. 
Apart from this, it takes two to tango in any industrial operation. I have had a close association with many people who have worked with Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and know the type of industrial policy that the company adopts. It adopts a closed door policy. In my relations with industry, I have always found that if the employer keeps the door open, if there is something wrong in the shipyard, the workshop or on the shop floor, the employee knows he can go through that door to discuss the problems and things run much more harmoniously. But I am afraid that is not the case when we talk about the situation with BHP at the Whyalla yard. The company has a closed door policy. It does not recognise the senior trade union organisations in the town. All the decisions are made in Melbourne. It is not possible for local people who feel that they may be prepared to concede something to be in a position to do so. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What amounts have been paid by way of compensation to employees of Australian National Railways for loss of hearing. 
What amounts have been paid to employees for the supply of hearing aids. 
-In this morning's  Australian  there is an article dealing with the South Australian Parliament. It states: 
The Liberal Opposition Leader in South Australia 's Legislative Council,  Mr Degaris,  yesterday threatened to block supply to the Dunstan Government and force an election. 
He told the Upper House, where the Opposition has 1 1 seats to the Government's 10, there was a case for exerting pressure on the passage of the State's Budget because of the proposed gerrymander under an electoral redistribution. 
The article continues: 

 Mr Dunstan last night warned the Opposition he would not hesitate to call an election. 
The Liberals last year were stupid, but if they want to use their majority, obtained in the Upper House by a hangover from the past, we will accommodate them. ' 
The Liberals tried it last year and lost. During the course of the debate here in the last few weeks 2 words in particular have been used One was 'Playmander' and the other was 'Donnymander'. Perhaps we can have a look at those 2 words. The word 'Playmander' refers to the gerrymander which was carried out by  Sir Thomas  Playford for so many years in South Australia. It allowed him to govern with a minority most of the time. Perhaps we can look at some of the legislation he introduced. I shall quote some of the provisions in the Electoral Districts (Redivision) Act 1954. First of all, we have to realise that in South Australia two-thirds of the population lives in Adelaide and one-third lives in the country, and this has been the case for quite some time. I shall just quote a few of the provisions contained in the Act passed by  Sir Thomas  Playford in 1954. Section 5.(1) of the Act states: 
Subject as hereinafter mentioned, the Commission shall- 
re-divide the metropolitan area into thirteen approximately equal Assembly districts; and 
Going back to what I said earlier the metropolitan area is where two-thirds of the population live- 
re-divide the country areas into twenty-six approximately equal Assembly districts; 
This is where one-third of the people live. That is the way in which the gerrymander was carried out in South Australia. 
The Act went a bit further than that. Section 6.( 1 ) states: 
The Commission shall also re-divide the State into five Council districts. Each Council district shall consist of two or more whole Assembly districts. 
They are the Legislative Council districts. Section 6.(2) states: 
In making the redivision under this section, the Commission shall provide for two Council districts in the metropolitan area, 
That is where two-third of the people live - and three in the country areas - 
Where one-third of the people live- and shall as far as practicable retain the existing boundaries of Council districts. 
That is the Playmander that was referred to here a few weeks ago and which enabled the Liberal Party to remain in office in South Australia for so many years. Steele Hall did introduce a redistribution in 1968. It certainly was not perfect but at least it did adjust some of the imbalance that had existed for so many years. 
Let us look at what the South Australian Liberals are referring to as a Donnymander. As honourable members know the Premier of South Australia introduced legislation for a redistribution not so long ago. Section 77 (2) of the Constitution Act 1934-1975 states: 
In this section-electoral quota' means the nearest integral number obtained by dividing the total number of electors for the House of Assembly (as at the relevant date) by the number of electoral districts into which the State is to be divided as at the first polling day for which the order is to be effective. 
That is the closest to one vote one value that we have struck in Australia before. The section goes on: permissible tolerance' means a tolerance of ten per centum: 
Then it goes on to mention other matters. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What economies have been recommended by the committee established to examine economies in the construction of the new Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway. 
I should like to make a few comments regarding the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. Of course as a member for one of the larger country electorates, this matter of communications within the electorate and the problems associated with communications is probably one of the points most raised with me in my dealings with the country areas. In the first place I feel we must applaud the actions of the previous Government in which it divided the functions of the former Postmaster-General's Department into Telecom Australia and the Australian Postal Commission. Both have adopted a more efficient approach to the areas of responsibility allotted to them. Although they commenced operations by increasing rates for the services they provided in order to place their operations on a more viable level, they have adopted a more businesslike approach and have endeavoured to increase the service they provide to the community. I am sure all honourable members would agree that the decision of the previous Government was a wise decision and is one which will bring great benefit to the community, provided that their charges are kept within reasonable limits. An indication of the confidence of the Australian people in Telecom Australia can be gained by looking at the results of the recent loan and how quickly that loan was taken up. 
I should like to make a few comments regarding the Australian Broadcasting Commission. There are many today who are concerned at possible interference in the operation of the ABC. Whilst this interference is denied by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  it will be a sorry day if and when the ABC loses that independence that has characterised its operations in the past. As a member representing a large country area, in the many trips that I make round the electorate I find that once we move away from the more closely settled areas, it is not possible to pick up the commercial radio stations. But no matter where one travels in the electorate, there is a very strong chance that one will be able to tune into the ABC rural stations. Those stations have many programs of a nature adapted to those areas. I am sure that the operations of the ABC are appreciated for this reason. 
I for one have always admired the ABC for the service it provides to the more remote areas of Australia. There is also the service provided by Radio Australia. However, I do hear criticism in that the listeners in those areas are confined to one program. I do not know of the technicalities or the cost involved, but I feel that an investigation should be carried out to see whether an alternative program can be provided so that the more remote areas can have a choice of a second program. I would certainly appreciate any comments the Minister may have on this particular point when he replies. Certainly the people do not have a choice. The young people may dislike the type of programs on those particular rural stations. I feel that a choice is something to which the country people are entitled. 
Another matter in connection with the operation of the ABC concerns country television coverage. Recently a decision was taken to establish a television station at Leigh Creek. Although I understand it will operate from videotapes, at least it will provide the people of the area with a television program. But this service was only made possible by the actions of the South Australian Government and the Electricity Trust of South Australia in conjunction with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, following strong representations to the effect that they were prepared to make a considerable financial contribution to the cost of the television station at Leigh Creek. 
Since entering this Parliament some 7 years ago I have continually raised the matter of the provision of a television service to the Eyre Peninsular of South Australia. While much has been said, the fact is that there is still no sign of service being provided to this area. Whilst the eastern part of Eyre Peninsular receives a service from the ABC and a commercial channel, and a small low powered ABC transmitter at Ceduna, it is a fact that the vast hinterland of Eyre Peninsular is denied this facility which is provided to over 95 per cent of other Australians. Replies to my representations have always referred to the cost involved, the number of people involved, the low topography of the area and other matters. But established towns such as Streaky Bay, Wudinna, Minnipa, Elliston, Poochera and the farm areas that these towns service are still without a decent television service. However, having waited so long to receive this facility which is considered the norm by 95 per cent of the Australian population, surely it is time for some definite plan to be adopted to ensure the extension of television services to this area in my electorate. I have placed a question on notice to the Minister on this matter. I hope that he can give me some favourable answer as soon as possible, indicating that plans are being implemented to provide that service in the foreseeable future. 
Another matter of great concern that is continually being raised with me is the installation of rural telephone services. I know that most members from country electorates are also concerned about this matter. This problem has probably been more emphasised by the policy to replace the old manual telephone exchanges with the more modern automatic exchanges- a change that has necessitated the need for a much higher standard of telephone line and which has resulted in a higher cost in the laying of those lines. 
In 1970 the former Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a policy that allowed for the construction of 15 miles of free telephone lines. This policy was described to me by a high Postmaster-General's Department official as a policy that the Department would never be able to carry out because of the lack of material, resources and finance available to the Department at that time. However, the result was that because of the policy announced the number of applications increased considerably. What the applicants were not told at that time was that it would be 5 or 6 years before they could get that telephone service. The Labor Government reduced the distance for free telephone lines to 8 kilometres. But even though it came in for criticism from some quarters, at that time it did allow a greater spread of resources per applicant. 
The Government has decided to increase the distance of free telephone lines to 12 kilometres. But this only relieves the position marginally for those applicants living up to 30 or 40 kilometres away from the nearest telephone exchange. Of course it only applies in those areas that have an automatic telephone exchange or where an automatic exchange can be anticipated within the next few years. Where only manual exchanges exist, the distance for free telephone lines is still only 8 kilometres. I am aware of the cost involved and how much it costs per kilometre to put these lines in. I am aware that the $320 per kilometre that Telecom Australia charges applicants does not cover the cost of laying the telephone line. But it is a fact that those applicants living a considerable distance from the exchange have a considerable financial problem in having the telephone connected. I am aware of all the factors involved and I can appreciate the problems. I certainly cannot offer any immediate solution to the problem. However, from my limited knowledge of the technicalities, it is obvious that one of the fastest growing areas of technical progress is in the field of telecommunications. I hope that the advance of this technology will allow for the provision of a telephone service to the more remote areas at a rate that does not place such a burden on the applicants in those areas. 
I noted that the previous  speaker  mentioned telephone calls from country areas to members of Parliament. I fully agree with the remarks made by the honourable member. If a constituent in a country area wants to ring a member, he has to make a trunk call. That does not apply everywhere but in South Australia most country people have to use a trunkline. Three of the 4 country members in South Australia have thenFederal offices in the capital city. So if a country dweller wants to ring his Federal member, it is necessary to make a trunkline telephone call unless he lives in the electorate of Grey. The same situation applies in the case of senators. The only South Australian senator whose office is in the country is Labor  Senator McLaren.  He lives outside the Adelaide metropolitan area. I feel concern for these people on the subject of rural telephones. I know the cost involved. I do not know what can be done about it but I certainly hope that some examination will be made to see whether some of the burden that is placed on these people establishing rural telephone services can be lifted and whether in some way or another they can be assisted. 
We heard the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  spend practically all his time in this debate drawing a red herring across the path of the Parliament. He tried to blame the faults of the present Government on the previous Government. It is time that the Government and its supporters realised the facts because they now have been in office for 1 1 months. Whatever criticism the Government and its supporters had of the previous Labor Government, power has been in their hands since November last year. The Government has had the power to introduce a new policy if the Labor Government's policy was wrong, but it is not prepared to do so. All the honourable member for Evans wanted to do was to get up in this place and criticise the Labor Party in an endeavour to draw a red herring across the path and draw attention away from the condemnation that should be directed at the Government and the policy it has adopted on the shipbuilding industry. 
I support the raising of the matter of urgency by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  It draws to the attention of the House the plight of the shipbuilding industry and the need for a change in Government policy. All we have seen since the Industries Assistance 
Commission made its report on the shipbuilding industry is procrastination from the Government and an announcement that 4 ships for the Australian National Line would be built in Japan. Since then we have had a vague offer by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to the shipyard workers at Newcastle and Whyalla, which I think was very unfair, in which he indicated that a ship would be built in each of those yards if the workers were prepared to accept a wage freeze. In the first place I think it is completely unfair to expect workers in the shipyard industry not to accept wage indexation rises and anything else given by the industrial tribunals to everyone else in the Australian workforce. I do not think the Government should expect the shipyard workers to accept those conditions at any time. The Government and its supporters must know in their own minds that those conditions would not be acceptable yet the honourable member for Evans said these workers ought to be prepared to accept lower wages. I do not know of any worker in Australia who has ever been advantaged after being prepared to accept lower wages under a Liberal and National Country Party Government. The present workers in the shipyards at Whyalla and Newcastle will not accept such a reduction in their wages. 
I think the proposed moratorium on strikes may be all right. I think the shipyard workers would be prepared to discuss something along those lines. They would be prepared to discuss dispute procedure clauses and such things. The number of disputes that arise in the industry is not so great, not nearly as many as suggested by members on the Government side. This matter could have been negotiated but not the proposed freeze of wages. There has been the offer by the State Premiers,  Mr Wran  and  Mr Dunstan,  and there also has been a submission by the Australian Council of Trade Unions which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  rather insultingly referred to as being a bit lightweight. 
The industry still does not know its future and where it will go. The Minister has said that he will bring down a policy in a few weeks after he has examined all these submissions. We certainly hope that the Government does so and we hope that it will look at its own election policy. Prior to the last election the Government Parties included in their election policy issued to the Australian people the following statement: 
An Australian shipbuilding and repair industry is essential to the national interest The Liberal and Country Parties believe Australia must maintain an independent capacity to provide and service the relevant requirements of our commercial shipping and our defence forces. A Federal Liberal and Country Party Government will pursue policies which ensure the shipbuilding and repair industry operates as competitively and efficiently as possible. In this we will provide a building subsidy to protect our relatively small but vital industry. 
That was the policy that the Government Parties put to the people. One would think that that policy supports the maintenance of our shipbuilding industry but that is not the case. It was just a red herring drawn across the path of the Australian people in a bid for votes. The Government is ignoring the point made by the Industries Assistance Commission. It is completely ignoring the defence aspect of our shipbuilding industry. It is all right to say that the defence aspect is of no concern to our shipbuilding industry but if Australia were in trouble tomorrow those same shipyards and workers who today are being condemned would make a great contribution to our defence capacity. 
My special concern in this matter, irrespective of what honourable members on the other side have said, is Whyalla. I have spoken on the matter of the shipbuilding for quite some time because I feel it is my responsibility. People in Whyalla expect me to show some concern and to act in a responsible way in trying to defend their interests. If the Whyalla shipyards are closed I think that Whyalla will be hit a lot harder than Newcastle. Newcastle possibly has some of the highest unemployment in Australia at the present time but unemployment in Whyalla is also high. Whyalla is in a completely decentralised area where there is no alternative employment. There has been talk of the workers from the shipyards being absorbed into the steel works. How we absorb 600 or 700 tradesmen in the steel works, I do not know. From reports I have heard, it can possibly absorb about 90 tradesmen. Some of the unskilled staff possibly could be absorbed in the steel works, but they will be absorbed in that section which finds it very difficult to attract labour and to hold labour because of rotating shifts, working over weekends and this sort of thing. The jobs are very unpopular and those are the jobs which will be available to these people. 
We have to take into account the high migrant population in Whyalla, which is faced with the situation of the sudden rise in unemployment and the diminution in jobs. Honourable members have a pretty good idea of the effect a situation such as that would have. Quite recently some of the women of Whyalla got together and went along to the local newspaper editor and had a talk to him. They were able to put a case for Whyalla, looking at the matter from the woman 's point of view and at the social effects. 
Two of the women were  Mrs Jean  Whiteman and  Mrs Pat  McGuinness. The report states: 

 Mrs Jean Whiteman and  Mrs Pat  McGuinness have, in the absence of any other contenders for the job, grasped the nettle and set about making it public that they think, to quote  Mrs McGuinness:  'The shipyard is being buried even before it's dead'. 
They think it's time the wives of shipyard workers got together to see if there is anything left to be done by way of a rescue operation. 'We think there is too much acceptance that the shipyard has to close', is how  Mrs Whiteman  summed up the attitude of all the shipbuilders' wives she knows. 'The unions have done everything they can. The only thing left is to embarrass the Federal Government with the consequences of what it is doing*. 
The women say there is widespread feeling among shipyard-department families that their interests are being too readily written off under the blanketing assurance that everything will be done to try to give the men jobs at the steelworks. 'We know a lot of wives who say their husbands would not accept laboring jobs after being sponsored out from the U.K. by BHP as tradesmen for the shipyard '. 
The Whiteman and McGuinness families have been in Whyalla about nine years.  Mr Whiteman  is a boilermakerwelder, and  Mr McGuinness  a leading hand plumber. Both left the U.K. to work at the shipyard by arrangement with BHP's recruiting officer. 

 Mrs Whiteman thinks the company has incurred a responsibility to do more than offer tradesmen any job that might be available. 
Of course, that would be at a much lower rate of pay. The matter before the House today is important. I think it tries to draw to the attention of the Government the urgency for some definite proposals to be made regarding the Australian shipbuilding industry. In Newcastle and Whyalla we have growing unemployment, so it is essential that we ensure that the shipbuilding industry is kept going. The Government, instead of blaming the workers in the industry and low productivity, should try to draw up some plan which will increase productivity in those areas. It should put in more modern equipment so that the yards can successfully compete with overseas yards. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in inquiries on the feasibility of providing television services on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Are there any proposals by the Australian National Railways Commission to commence regular rail services on the completed sections of the new Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. 
If so, what are those proposals, and when is it anticipated that regular services will commence. 
What effect will any proposals have on the present services on the existing Marree-Alice Springs narrow gauge line and the staff now operating that section. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. In view of the submissions to the Government on the Australian shipbuilding industry by the Premiers of New South Wales and South Australia and also by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, is the Prime Minister now in a position to inform the House of the measures the Government is prepared to take to ensure the continuation of this vital industry? 
-In speaking to the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill (No. 2)1 first of all refer to some remarks made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  He passed remarks about the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and said that the Australian Labor Party was too late. This is a rather strange thing to say in relation to the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. The only time it has looked as though the bounty is to be reduced since it was introduced is now when the Liberal-National Country Parties are in power. How can the honourable member say that member's of the Labor Party are too late? Today we heard the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  announce that the first advance payment to wheat growers would be increased. Of course, that is the first time that the Liberal-National Country Party Government has increased that payment since 1966. 1 do not know how it can be said that we are too late. Over the last few years we have heard some criticism of the Labor Party. 
I compliment the honourable member for Riverina because he is at least being consistent. He opposed the phasing out of the subsidy when everybody else has said that the Labor Party might phase it out. Everybody else has apparently changed his mind but at least  the  honourable member is standing firm in his contention that the subsidy should remain. In 1 974 when the previous legislation was introduced and again last year during the election campaign, the Australian Labor Party came in for quite a lot of criticism. People went up and down the countryside, in areas where nitrogenous fertiliser had some benefit, and made statements about what the Labor Party would do. One of those persons was the present Minister for Primary Industry who was then simply the honourable member for New England. It might pay us to retrace some of the things which have been said in the past. In 1974 the Minister then in Opposition, speaking to the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Bill, said: 
We on this side of the House believe that, when the Government came out with its undertaking to extend the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty, there was far too little said by the Government of the very short period of extension that it intended to provide. Indeed, I believe that the whole purpose of what the Government did was to offer those who use nitrogenous fertilisers a carrot expecting them to fall for the fact that the Government was really caring for their wellbeing. But the Government was trying to find a device by which it believed the subsidy could be reduced or eliminated. I suspect that, in the present hearing before the Commission, the Government is really hoping to goodness that this might be a way by which those recommendations of the Coombs report which the Government was intent on implementing can perhaps be adopted by a circuitous form. 
I do not know how honourable members will comment about what has happened, now that the Government has introduced this legislation. It has taken the first step in the introduction of the Industries Assistance Commission report and it will reduce the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy. So I ask: Who is phasing out the subsidy now? We were accused that we would phase it out but it is this Government, which was so strong on the matter in 1974, which is going to take the first step in phasing out the subsidy. Further on the Minister, who was then in Opposition, stated: 
The Government provides on the one hand a nitrogenous fertiliser bounty with these magnanimous statements of how generous it really is, and on the other it takes the bounties away so that the rural sector is really left so much worse off. For all this piece of legislation which this House and which the Opposition supports, we regard the Government's support of it as being perhaps one of the most cynical political acts it has committed in the time it has been in office. 
Who is being cynical now? It is that Opposition which is now in Government which is taking steps to reduce the subsidy. Perhaps we should see what a few more National Country Party members had to say at that time. One honourable member stated: 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  drew attention to the fact that the nitrogenous fertiliser matter is to be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
We submit that matters of such great national importance should be matters for the national Parliament. 
I ask: Who is adopting the IAC report of which the then honourable member for Darling Downs was so critical? We could go on for quite some time and quote what various honourable members said. Another member of the Country Party stated: 
What 1 am concerned about is that the Government, for reasons best known to itself, sought to take away from the national Parliament the right to make a decision which rightly belongs to that Parliament and sought to give the right to make that decision, which affects the life of so many people, to a team of public servants who would have no practical appreciation of the great difficulties involved and the great hardship suffered by so many people. 
This was a reference to the IAC report. Who is accepting the recommendation of the IAC which is contained in this legislation? Yet another National Country Party member stated: 
We are looking for a continuance of the support which has been provided in the past. We have misgivings as to its ultimate fate within the framework of the Industries Assistance Commission. That particular Commission increasingly is corning under great pressure. The volume of its business grows every day. One can be excused for imagining that the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy is subject to the threats, one of which is to the fundamental competence of the Commission to attend to its task in the spirit of the operation and the other of which is in relation to whether or not it is in itself a device for the purpose of selling the industries down the river. 
Now, who is selling the industries down the river? It is the same people who are represented by the honourable member who made that remark. The honourable member for Darling mentioned what was said last year on the  Policy Makers  program in which the honourable member for New England and the former honourable member for Dawson who was then the Minister for Agriculture were both interviewed. Perhaps it is worth repeating something which was said in that interview: 
Well everyone else has had a say can I just say two other things as far as the nitrogen bounty is concerned. The second is that our firm policy has not been to eliminate the nitrogen bounty. 
There again are some contradictions from the present Minister. Perhaps the main thing at which we could look is a Press release put out by the Country Party prior to the 1974 election. It bears the name of the Australian Country Party National secretariat and is a statement headed Sinclair warns Labor will take away Nitrogenous Fertilisers Bounty if Re-elected. ' After some comments about the superphosphate bounty, reference is made to the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty: 
Labor has said it will keep the nitrogenous bounty. However, the Labor Government has 2 recommendations before it to cancel it, said  Mr Sinclair. 
He went on to talk about the recommendations in the Coombs report and referred to the Green Paper. Probably the most interesting thing in the paper is the last paragraph, wherein the honourable member for New England, then a member of the Opposition, stated: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the Country Party, that in Government with the Liberal Party, we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
Tonight the Minister has introduced legislation to reduce the subsidy. This is the first time it has been reduced since it was introduced in 1966. In view of that, perhaps what he said is worth repeating: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the Country Party, that in Government with the Liberal Party, we will restore trie bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
He went right across the Austraiian continent, making that statement anywhere he thought it could have political impact. He said in the statement that Labor would cancel the bounty on fertiliser. Of course, that would have had some effect in some electorates, but it was based on a lie. It was based on something which he must have known- that if the Liberal and Country Parties got back into government they would do the very thing they were accusing the Labor Party of doing. I congratulate the honourable member for Riverina on the stand that he has taken, but I feel that a hypocritical stand has been taken not only by the present Minister but also by those other honourable members opposite who were so critical of the Labor Party and who are now going to support this measure. 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that some members of the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority who have been under notice of dismissal since July but have now obtained alternative employment through their own efforts are being refused permission to resign from the Authority with full redundancy entitlements? Will the Minister give an undertaking that irrespective of the Government's decision on the plans for the restructuring of the industry, staff of the Authority who have received notice of retrenchment at the direction of the Minister and who have obtained alternative employment by their own efforts will be allowed to leave the Authority with their full redundancy entitlements? 
I want to concentrate on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. Firstly, I would like to support the criticism of some of my colleagues of the fact that, although this Bill was introduced on 4 
June of this year, 42 -amendments to it were foreshadowed this morning. Although the Government has said that it will adjourn the committee stage of the debate on this Bill until we come back the week after next after the recess it is a fact that if these amendments had been known to members of the Opposition earlier they could have influenced their attitudes. 
I agree with most of the honourable members who have spoken today that this is probably one of the most important Bills to come into this House for quite some time. It is certainly the most important Bill to come into this House concerning the Aboriginal people of Australia. Although the Labor Government introduced last year a Bill along similar lines concerning land rights- I feel it went a lot further- this BUI will have far-reaching effects. All we can hope is that if we are in a position to improve the Bill- we of the Opposition feel that we can make a contribution to improving it- our contributions will be accepted. It will be a big step forward. 
We have to go back in time to realise what a debt we owe to the Aboriginal people and what a black past we have given them. All of thentroubles started from the day that Governor Phillip landed at Port Jackson, planted a flag and claimed the country in the name of King George III. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said today that he was a radical. I saw an interesting program on  This Day Tonight  last week in which a couple of Australian Aborigines were shown landing at Dover in the English Channel and planting the Aboriginal flag. Unfortunately their boat was swamped just before they reached shore. Still they managed to get ashore and plant the Aboriginal flag. In doing so they claimed England. In a symbolic gesture they went round handing out beads to the bystanders. I think that is what happened in the first place in Australia. Of course, the position was reversed on this occasion. 
From the time of the landing of Europeans in Australia the position of the Aboriginal people has steadily deteriorated. I am sure that we are all in agreement that our past in this respect is not one of which we can be very proud. For many years absolutely nothing was done for the Aborigines. Those people who were showing concern for what was happening to the Aboriginal people were voices m the wilderness. Certainly not a great deal of notice was taken of them. As a race we have not even had the decency to record the history of the Aborigines. If we look at the position of other indigenous people we will find that at least the history of how they have been decimated and so forth has been recorded. But we have not had the decency to do even that. I am sure that those who have read the books written by Professor Rowley will remember that he made mention of how we have taken the Aborigines out of our history books. That is a fact. There was a segment during a news program tonight about what some educationists have had to say about our attitude to Aborigines in our education system. 
It has been claimed that if it had not been for the Aborigines during the early days when the white man was hugging the coast of Australia the white man never would have left the coast. They were able to assist the explorers. Many times they did so against their will. The early settlers who broke out from the coast did so mainly with the assistance of Aborigines. Many of them took Aboriginal women as their wives or companions. The early settlers relied upon the Aborigines to find water holes and so forth. Sometimes that was done voluntarily and sometimes it was done involuntarily. The degradation of the Aborigines has continued right through to the present. 
As I have said, we have not even recorded some of the things that we have done to them, including the massacres that have taken place. These events have been recorded in other countries, but they have not been recorded in Australia. It has been claimed that in the early days of the settlement of the Eyre Peninsula, which is in my electorate, when the Aboriginal people were defending their rights and standing up to the settlers, the settlers had a big drive on horseback and drove a large group of Aborigines towards the cliffs and forced them over. This is denied by many people in the area, but some of the older people in the area say that it is quite a true story. A few years ago an Aboriginal group in Adealide wished to erect a monument at that place. The local council had reservations about the matter because it had no proof that that had actually taken place. But elderly people have assured me that it did take place. 
The Aborigines have been subjected to all the prejudice and hatred that the white man can muster. Of course, it has meant that they have lived in a racist society. I think that many of us are racist. What did we do to their lifestyle? We pushed them into corners to such an extent that in many instances they became people who had had their tribal structures and their culture destroyed. It is only in the last few years that we have started to realise what we have done and tried to make amends for our actions in the past. 
Most Australians know more about the American Indian than they do about their own indigenous people. I have always felt that it is interesting to make a comparison between the way the American Indian and the Australian Aboriginal have been treated. They are both indigenous people. Both races became the victims of the white man's expansion and so forth. The American Indian was possibly in a much better position to resist the encroachment of the white man than was the Australian Aboriginal. In the first place, following the landing of the Spaniards in America and the spreading of the horse, the Indian became mounted, which meant that he was more mobile. In most cases the American Indian lived in areas where there were a lot more rivers than there were in Australia. So again he was more mobile and there were more means of communication. The American Indian possibly had access to arms right from the time the Spaniards first landed on the American continent. Apart from that, the weapons they had were at a much more advanced stage than were the weapons of the Australian Aboriginal. The American Indian was to be found in larger tribal groupings and, because of the better communications, whenever his land was being encroached upon he was able to get larger groups together and to put some resistance. Despite that, he went under too. 
However, the resistance was such that the United States Government at least recognised the Indians and found that at times it had to draw up treaties with them. Those treaties were wiped aside when it suited the white people of that country. Large reserves were given to the American Indians under treaties, but if gold was found in those areas or if they covered good pastoral land the treaties were tossed to one side and ignored. The American Plains Indians were pushed into a corner over a period of about 30 years. They were pushed into very small reserves which possibly contained the poorest country in the vicinity or were in areas where there was no game and in most cases no water. Although the Indians resisted, they were smashed. At least the Americans recorded their history, whereas we in Australia have not recorded the history of our Aborigines. The American Indians, despite their problems, had a few victories. Some of us know about General Custer and the battle at Little Big Horn. 
We know what happened to the American Indians; so what chance did the Australian Aborigines have? The Australian Aborigines were not mounted and the weapons they had were much more primitive than those of the American Indians. The Aborigines' tribal structures were much smaller. They did not have the means of communication and the means of congregation so that they could put up some resistance. They went the same way as the American Indians. We chased them off tribal land and forced them into degradation, and we destroyed some of them. The Aborigines became a completely dispossessed people. The only recorded history we have of many of the things that took place is in their own history, in the stories that they can tell. I have been told that in the northern part of South Australia some of the older Aboriginal people can tell the story of Burke and Wills. That story has been handed down. They can tell about the tribe that looked after King after that tragic expedition. One can hear stories of Lasseter and his lost gold reef and so forth. This is the only history we have of them in many places. 
While all this was going on, the concerned voices were in the wilderness. For many years the attitude of the white population was to assimilate the Aborigines into white society or to let them die out peacefully- and sometimes not quite so peacefully. Only in the last 25 years has there been any concern by the white population about what happened to our Aboriginal people. Possibly the watershed of that concern was the 1967 referendum which was carried throughout Australia by an exceptionally large vote and which the honourable member for Wills mentioned earlier- a vote in excess of 90 per cent. The Australian people voted overwhelmingly to allow the Federal Parliament to legislate for our Aboriginal people. From that time on the Federal Government has had much greater involvement. Even our predecessors, the LiberalCountry Party Government, started a scheme to assist Aboriginal people. The result was that more finance was made available to the States and things took a little turn. However, with the dispossession that had taken place, the matter of land rights for Aborigines became of great importance. This was something which had not been considered before. Following that we saw some court cases. There was one in the early 1970s involving land in Arnhem Land. That was the case in which  Mr Justice  Blackburn was involved, the Yirrkala case. We know of the decision that he handed down. That decision was based on white man's law and in it the traditional rights of the Aboriginal people were completely ignored. It was a decision made within the very limited framework in which he had to work- the European law, the white man's law, under which the rights of the Aborigines were given short shrift. Emphasis was given at that time to the need for a law to cover this aspect of Aboriginal life; that is, a law to establish land rights for these people. 
In 1972 the Woodward Commission was established and also in that year the advent of the Labor Government gave a bit of a kick along to the provision of finance, etc., for these people. The fact that the Federal Government moved into this field led to an increase in finance to assist in areas such as health, education and housing, which had been of concern to the Aboriginal people and those concerned about them. That was an effort to bridge the gap that had existed for quite some time. I think everybody recognised the need for this land rights legislation. Following the establishment of the Woodward Commission and the presentation of its report in about 1973, the Labor Government in 1975 introduced its land rights Bill. I know that our Government was criticised for delays and so forth, but there had to be some examination of that Bill to ensure that everything was covered. We introduced that legislation last year and it was before the House until 1 1 November. We all know what happened on that day, when the Labor Government was tossed out of office in such a bad manner by the Governor-General. Now, after another 12 months, the LiberalNational Country Party Government has introduced this Bill. 
From our point of view this Bill waters down some of the good provisions contained in the Bill introduced by the Labor Government last year and in many respects it departs from the Woodward report. One wonders whether this Bill would ever have been introduced if the Labor Government had not introduced its Bill last year. I say that because, following the initiatives taken by that Labor Government, this Liberal-National Country Party Government has now taken up a number of those matters and probably is claiming them as its own idea. Some have been altered. This Bill differs from the Labor Government Bill in very many important areas. Perhaps I should mention a few of them. Some of the controls which would have been in this legislation to cover this area have been turned over to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. We are a little fearful, because that legislative body comes under the influence of mining and pastoral interests. 
Let us look at some of the major changes to the Labor Government's Bill. The most wide ranging alteration relates to the transfer of legislative powers from the Commonwealth Parliament to the Northern Territory House of Assembly. This includes, firstly, the control, declaration and protection of sacred sites; secondly, the control of entry to pastoral properties; thirdly, the control of entry to Aboriginal land; and, finally, access to the sea adjoining Aboriginal lands. There are a few other matters in respect of which this Bill differs from the Bill we introduced last year. I understand there are some alterations in respect of royalties. I also understand that under this Bill control over roads through Aboriginal areas will be taken away from the Aborigines. The powers of the land councils also are to be restricted under this Bill. This goes against what  Mr Justice  Woodward said in his report. The Woodward report recommended that the land rights legislation 'should be protected in such a way that its provisions cannot be eroded by the effect of any Northern Territory legislation'. In the suggested drafting instructions for proposed legislation the relevant clause states:  the Ordinances of the Northern Territory shall apply to Aboriginal land . . . provided however that ... no ordinance shall have any effect so as to diminish any benefit conferred upon Aborigines by this Act or to restrict any Land Council, Land Trust or the Commission in the discharge of their respective functions. 
That quite clearly is what  Mr Justice  Woodward recommended and, of course, this Bill departs from that recommendation. There is no guarantee as to what the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly will do in respect of these things. Not so long ago we had the example of what happened at Aurukun on Cape York Peninsula. Despite assurances given by the Queensland Government, that Government rushed through legislation which was an affront to the people who had been fighting for the Aboriginal people and, of course, to the Aboriginal people themselves. We have all received correspondence from various organisations throughout the country which have tried to influence us in relation to this Bill. I have a number of letters here from church organisations. I have a letter from the Quaker Race Relations Committee which, in referring to the Bill, draws attention to the fact that that Committee is a bit concerned about the authority in a number of these matters in the Bill being handed over to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I turn over a bit further and find that the Committee in the letter states: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation which the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has been granted . . . 
The Committee suggests that that is one of the matters which should be in the Bill. Another matter is: 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
I mentioned that matter earlier. It also states: 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's power to hear claims . . . 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the Labor Land Rights Bill. A provision that any Government decision to over-ride Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
I understand that the Minister is introducing an amendment to cover that matter. The Committee also mentions a few other things. I refer now to the Presbyterian Church. It mentions matters in a similar vein to those mentioned by the Quaker Committee. In the first paragraph it mentions its concern at authority being given back to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. The Australian Council of Churches does exactly the same thing. All these bodies are concerned about this power which was in the Labor Party Bill being given back to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. These are organisations which are supporting us. We have had correspondence from the Central Lands Council and from the Aboriginal legal rights organisation in the Northern Territory. These are all people who have placed the views of Aborigines first- hot the views of the mining interests or of the pastoral interests. We understand that 42 amendments are proposed to the Bill. Possibly there are some which we want to put before the House. We have not had an opportunity to examine those 42 amendments properly. We hope that some of the objections of which we have spoken will be covered by those amendments. We hope also that the amendments to be moved by our Party will be given consideration. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the phasing down of operations of the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera, what reduction in staff has taken place during the last 6 month period. 
Of the reductions that have taken place, how many are the result of (a) transfers to other Australian Government Departments and (b) resignations. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many houses were approved for construction or purchase by Aboriginal organisations in the Electoral Division of Grey in 1975-76. 
How many is it anticipated will be approved in 1976-77. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a report by the Canberra columnist Cassandra over the weekend that the Government has organised a deal with Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd over the future of the shipyard at Whyalla? Is there any substance in this report? Further, has the Prime Minister contacted the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  in reply to submissions made by the South Australian Government on the future of the Whyalla shipyard? If not, when can the South Australian Premier anticipate receiving a reply to those submissions? Further, is the Prime Minister aware of the public concern expressed by the Whyalla City Council this week at the absence of any reply from him to their correspondence of some time ago on the same subject? 
-After listening to what the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has just said, perhaps we can expect that when this matter goes to the vote he will oppose the Bill. It is quite obvious from his remarks to the present that he does not support the Bill in its entirety. What I wish to mention this evening is the question of roads. Throughout the schedule to the Bill and in the various descriptions given we find that roads are not included. In the Bill that was introduced last year by the Australian Labor Party but which, as a result of what happened on 11 November, never came before the Parliament for finalisation, roads were included in the definitions. In the definition of Aboriginal land, control of the roads concerned was given to the Aboriginal people. I query whether in considering this aspect Aboriginal people should be given control over these roads. 
I suppose that in many areas people do not like to see roads put through their land. As it is their land, they wish to have some say in the use to which it is put. No protection is provided against an influx of people- tourists etcetera- on those roads. I am sure that everyone will admit that such an influx can have a bad effect in certain areas. Consider the property of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in Victoria. Would it be all right if a road were constructed through the Prime Minister's property and he were given no right whatsoever to restrict the access of people to that road? A similar question would arise in relation to roads being constructed through land held by graziers and others. Why are Aboriginals not to be given control over the roads which run through their lands? Why are roads to be taken out of the control which Aboriginals will exercise over the land through which those roads will run? This is a matter to which I feel consideration should be given. Does this mean that this land will be open to every Tom, Dick and Harry who wishes to gain access to it? I suggest to the Minister that this is a matter to which some consideration should be given. I support the amendments which have been moved by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; progress reported. 
I wish to add a few remarks to the consideration of this Bill. Matters have been raised here tonight which throw doubts on the impartiality of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to look at the matters that are left in the hands of that legislative body. It is rather odd that people, some of whom have had quite a long experience with Aborigines in the Northern Territory, have expressed their concern that some of the matters in the Bill have been left to the legislative powers of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. I refer to the Presbyterian Church, the Quakers and the United Church in Northern Australia. They have made submissions to various members. They are concerned that some of these powers are to be left in the hands of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I am sure that they would be free of political bias, but they can see a possibility of the Aborigines not getting the fair go to which they are entitled if the Legislative Assembly has these powers. I suggest that these matters should be given further consideration. I suggest that these powers of the 
Legislative Assembly should remain in the hands of the Australian Government. 
I should like to address my remarks mainly to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1976. Honourable members must admit that the introduction of this Bill is belated. Last year, prior to the double dissolution of the Parliament on11 November, the Labor Party had introduced legislation to increase compensation payable under this Bill. We are all aware of what happened last year. One result of the action taken last year was that people receiving long term compensation who were due for a rise did not receive that increase. They have had to wait another 12 months to receive a rise. The size of the rise is not great. The result is that over the years the rate of compensation has been reduced in value. I am reminded also of what has happened in the last 2 years in relation to the plans of the Labor Government to introduce a more comprehensive compensation Bill- a Bill which would have given Commonwealth employees much more protection, which would have represented progress and which, at least, would have brought the Commonwealth's legislation into line with some of the State legislation. Of course, all honourable members are aware of what happened to the legislation that was introduced by the then Minister for Labor,  Mr Clyde  Cameron. When the legislation reached the Senate, the then Liberal-National Country Party Opposition tossed it out with the result that all that the Labor Government was able to do was to amend the amount that applied in the Schedule. People who are now receiving Commonwealth compensation receive full pay for the first 6 months. After that period, a lower amount applies. It might be of use to remind honourable members what those amounts are at the present time. 
Debate interrupted. 
-It might pay us to recall what those amounts have been. For over 2 years now the amount has been $57 for an employee, $15 for the wife and $7 for each dependent child. This legislation was proposed by the Labor Government last year. Therefore these people have had to wait an extra 12 months before receiving an increase. In money terms this means that possibly they have lost more than $1,000 over the last 12 months. Whilst we appreciate that such people get full pay for the first 6 months, there are a lot of people in receipt of compensation for injuries which last a long time, people with back injuries and so forth who are off work for considerable periods. These people have been badly treated because the Government has taken so long to introduce this legislation. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  made an announcement in about July that this legislation would be introduced, but here we are in the middle of December and the legislation is only now before the House. People have had to wait all that time to receive their increase. We know that payments will be made retrospective to 1 September, but these people who have been receiving long term compensation have been unjustly treated for a considerable period because of the lack of action on the part of the present Government. 
The present Commonwealth Compensation Act is way behind some of the more advanced State Acts in the rates at present applying in the field of compensation. I know a number of people who are on long term compensation and who have responsibilities. The amounts they have been receiving have not allowed them to live decently and the result has been that their wives have had to take a job. Of course, once a wife takes a job she is no longer a dependant. This means that the allowance for the wife drops away and the compensation recipient loses some of the benefit. 
There is another point which should be raised. Payments to people in receipt of compensation should be indexed. As I mentioned earlier, we have been waiting 2 years for these amounts to be adjusted. In that time wages have been indexed, although I cannot tell the House off-hand the total percentage increases involved. Yet payments to people in receipt of compensation have stood still. This indicates the need for compensation payments to be indexed so that at least they retain their value. It appears that we have to wait 12 months before any government makes adjustments. Why should this be so? Social security payments have been indexed and tied to the consumer price index. Let us compare the case of a person on compensation with that of a person off work on sick pay. If an indexation rise takes place the increase is added to the sick pay, but that is not the case with a compensation payment. Therefore there is a strong argument for compensation payments to beindexed as other payments are. 
I happen to represent the majority of employees of an Australian Government instrumentality, the Australian National Railways. The work of most of these employees makes them more accident prone than many other Commonwealth workers. The great majority of the people I refer to are manual workers. They are tradesmen such as drivers, fettlers, shunters and guards. These people are more likely to have accidents than people in other classifications. We would probably find that in that instrumentality the percentage of people involved in accidents is higher than in other government departments. Consider employees engaged in shunting operations on the railway. They are accident prone because of the nature of the work. One little mistake and a leg or an arm has gone, and so forth. People engaged in track maintenance, track construction and so forth, and heavy lifting are more accident prone because of the heavy nature of the work. 
Another anomaly I want to mention relates to lump sum payments. The amount paid is the amount applying at the time of a person's death. In many cases when a person dies on the job as the result of an accident the compensation claim is disputed. It may take a couple of years for the claim to be settled. If and when the claim is settled, often after an appeal has been heard, the rate paid is the rate that applied at the time the accident happened. One particular group wrote to me about a case that it was fighting and perhaps I should quote from the letter. It states: 
For some time now we have been concerned about the anomalous situation whereby lump sum compensation payments are paid at the rate applying at the time of injury or death rather than the rate applying at the time when payments are actually made. To illustrate the enormity of the anomaly, I set down the changes in the lump sum payments for death since 1972 - 
2.1 1.72- $14,500 
16.11.74-$20.000 
1.9.76-$25,000 
My Association has been assisting a deceased member's widow- with 3 dependent children- with her legal representation after her husband died in November 1973. The loss in real money terms is significant and has exacerbated the 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Seamen's Compensation Bill 6 December 1976 REPRESENTATIVES 3353 hardship which she has experienced, Le., assuming she is successful she will only receive $14,300 at a time when the benefit is being updated to $25,000. 
I have been involved in another case in which the husband was killed in circumstances such that the commissioner did not feel inclined to pay at the time. The widow subsequently appealed and I understand she won her appeal. Although this happened over 18 months ago, if the appeal is upheld the widow will be paid at the rate which applied then and not at the current rate. She will be paid $20,000 instead of $25,000. Let us consider the anomaly applying in that case. That woman was living in a home provided by the Australian National Railways. When her husband died she was required to vacate that home. She was not thrown out of it on to the street but when she was asked to vacate the home she did so immediately and went to live in a caravan with her children. If she had been paid out immediately or not long after the accident, possibly she would have had a fair part of the purchase price of a home but now, 18 months or so later, she will be paid at the lower rate of $20,000, and will be in a less favourable position to try to settle her financial affairs. 
There is one other point that I would like to make about Commonwealth compensation. I realise that the facilities of the Department of Social Security are made available to people for rehabilitation, but I think the Department should go a bit further. On many occasions people who sustain a major injury such as the loss of a leg and so forth cannot carry on thennormal work. In lots of cases they finish up in lower paid jobs. Although they may receive a lump sum payment in the form of compensation, that payment really does not compensate them for the loss. I feel that something should be done to rehabilitate these people not only physically but also educationally so that persons who had been injured and who had lost the ability to earn the money that they were earning in their former occupation can be given some educational assistance, as well as compensation, to allow them to upgrade their education so they can be retrained for other work. 
I feel that this is very belated legislation. It is not the Government's credit that it has taken so long to introduce the legislation. I remember asking a question on this matter of the Minister for Health, representing the Minister for Social Security, when the session started, because I was personally involved with a number of people on long term compensation. They had been in receipt of $57 a week for a man and the smaller amount for the dependants. Whilst we are not opposing the legislation, I feel that the points I have raised should be taken into consideration. Some attempt should be made to index the compensation payments. Further consideration should be given to the amount that is paid in the case of the death of an employee and there is a bit of a delay in the payment of the compensation. I think it should be paid at the rate applying at the time of payment and not at the rate applying when the unfortunate accident happened. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the effect on Australian National Railways employees as a result of the rationalisation of passenger train services on lines operated by the Railways. 
In particular, what will be the effect on the Railways dining car crews stationed at Port Pirie. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What special works projects to provide employment for Aboriginals are currently being carried out in the Electoral Division of Grey. 
What other projects is it anticipated will be commenced during the remainder of 1 976-77. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In view of the phasing down of operations at the Woomera Rocket Range and the examination of alternate uses for that area, what progress has been made in the implementing of earlier statements that the area was being examined for possible use as a training area for armoured formations of the Australian Army. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Have all the bridge spans required for the TarcoolaAlice Springs Railway been manufactured in the Australian National Railways workshops at Port Augusta. 
If so, will he give an assurance that bridge spans for this major railway project will continue to be manufactured in those workshops in the future. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many Aboriginals are registered as unemployed in the Electoral Division of Grey. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
In the course of the debate on the Budget Estimates last year I took the opportunity during discussion of the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department to raise a matter which concerned large sections of my electorate. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
It is a matter which I have raised before by way of questions and debate on a number of occasions. 
-During the course of the debate on the Budget Estimates last year, I took the opportunity during the estimates for the Department of Postal and Telecommunications to raise a matter that concerns a large section of my electorate, a matter I have raised before on a number of occasions by way of questions and in debate. I refer to the lack of television services in a large portion of Eyre Peninsula within my electorate. At the conclusion of the estimates debate the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  stated that he would reply to the points raised by the various members. To date, apart from a short answer to a question on notice, no word has been received from the Minister on this matter. I have forwarded a further letter to him on this question in which I have made suggestions that may be feasible. The people of these areas are very concerned at the lack of action in providing such a service. Surely these areas should be able at least to look forward to a service in the foreseeable future. After all, provision of television services is accepted as the norm by most Australians and in our major cities the people have the choice of 4 channels. All these people are asking for is an Australian Broadcasting Commission service to give them at least a service. 
Some time ago we saw the completion of phase 7, a program to provide television services to many of the non-metropolitan areas and more remote areas throughout Australia. Since the completion of phase 7, there has been no ongoing program to extend the services to those areas still without this amenity. During the recent parliamentary recess, I was able to organise the distribution of petition forms throughout those areas of Eyre Peninsula without television. The petitions received very strong support throughout and had the support of the local government authorities, the newspapers and the community in general. During the last few weeks I have had the privilege of presenting 2 petitions containing over 2800 names of residents in the area. I trust that the petitions are not allowed to gather dust in the basement without the plea of the petitioners being given due consideration. 
I am aware that certain investigations have been carried out by the responsible authorities in the Streaky Bay area to assess the feasibility of establishing a service in that locality. I am also aware of suggestions of using the microwave link that goes through Eyre Peninsula as a means of transmitting programs. There have been suggestions that a more powerful transmitter can be established on a high point within the area, at a place called Mount Cooper. Whilst I certainly do not claim to have the technical expertise to speak with any authority on these suggestions, I do feel that a reasonably powered transmitter having an effective range of 45 to 50 miles would give coverage to a large number of the towns and rural communities in that locality. This would be in an area bounded by a triangle of Streaky Bay, Minnipa and Elliston. Such a service would cover not only the towns mentioned but also other towns such as Poochera, Wudinna, Kyancutta and all the rural communities that these towns service. 
I made a suggestion to the Minister in my last correspondence to him that if the existing transmitter at Ceduna were strengthened to improve its coverage, coupled with the suggested transmitter in the vicinity of Mount Cooper, many of the areas now without service would be covered. Recently the Premier of South Australia made an announcement to provide Electricity Trust of South Australia power to this part of South Australia, and I understand that an 1 1 000 KVA powerline is likely to be laid in the vicinity, so the necessary power should be available to establish such a facility. 
I am fully aware of the strength of feeling within my electorate at the delays and frustration at the complete lack of information as to when they can expect that the television service is to be established. From my contact with the Eyre Peninsula, the question of when the powers that be make a decision is, by far, the most pressing political matter raised with me as their Federal member. The particular section of South Australia has, for the last few years, been found very attractive as a tourist area for families on caravan tours. With its first class fishing areas available, a beautiful coastline and its natural attractions, there is a great potential. It cannot reach its full potential until such time as tourists, who are accustomed to a television service, know that it is available. Its provision will assist in allowing Eyre Peninsula and the west coast of South Australia to reach its full potential as a tourist attraction. I therefore hope that the Minister takes note of the contents of the petition in an effort to provide this service to the hinterland of Eyre Peninsula and that he accepts the fact that, despite the problems involved, everybody in the area feels a sense of deprivation of a service that is available to 95 per cent of their fellow Australians. I trust that the Minister will give the plea of the petitioners his sympathetic consideration. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Does the Minister's advice to beef cattle producers that they withhold stock from the market to force up beef prices mean that he now admits that the beef exporting companies can pay higher prices for slaughter cattle? Does he also agree that the beneficiaries of the removal of the beef export levy were the exporting companies and not the beef cattle producers? Further, in view of the fact that the Minister for Overseas Trade, supported by the now Prime Minister, publicly urged cattle producers to increase cattle numbers, will he now accept responsibility for the over supply situation that exists and is this the reason for his now - 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. It arises from the Australian Statistician's statement last Tuesday on the adjustment of the census figures for an underenumeration of some 367 000. Are the population statistics now sufficiently accurate for a calculation to be made of the number of members to which each State is entitled in this House and for the distribution of electoral divisions to proceed? 
I was very interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  I agree with a number of remarks he had to say regarding immigration. My electorate has a large migrant population and problems are often placed before me which are forwarded on to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and his Department. These cases require compassionate treatment. Unfortunately these days I do not meet with many successes. The honourable member for Deakin spoke about the former Government's policy.  His  Government has been in office now for fifteen or sixteen months. If it feels that what went on under the Australian Labor Party Government was incorrect the present Government has the power to correct it. I can assure honourable members that in these compassionate cases the restrictions are becoming tighter and tighter. 
I would like to refer to several matters mentioned in Her Majesty's Speech. Various contributors to this debate have professed loyalty to Her Majesty, but also questions have been raised, not so much in regard to loyalty but as to the form of government which Australia should have in the future. We have heard talk of a republican type of government. We now see more support for a republic outside this Parliament than we have ever seen before. We can ask ourselves what is the reason for this. It was not the case 2 years ago. The obvious reason why people are looking for a different system of government can be related to the action of the Governor-General on 1 1 November 1975, which action even Her Majesty cannot take here or in her own parliament at Westminster. I refer to the sacking of an elected government. If we are looking for the reason why many people in Australia are seeking a possible alternative we can find it in the action that the Governor-General took in 1975 when he dismissed the Whitlam Government. 
We can also look at how he came to be placed in a position in which the circumstance could arise. Although there was a lot of tut-tutting by many present Government supporters about the actions of the New South Wales and Queensland Governments in appointing non-Labor senators to replace Labor senators, we know that that action led to the events of 1 1 November. As I said, there were no strong protests by present Government supporters. Many of them said that they did not agree with it but they allowed it to take place, with the result that we saw the GovernorGeneral assume authority which  Her  Majesty, who spoke here a fortnight ago, does not have. In her Speech she mentioned a number of things to which I want to refer. There was very little in the Speech which her advisers had given her that laid down any sort of a program, apart from a few threats. When we look at what promises there are in the Speech perhaps we should have a look at what the Government's record has been up to date. Perhaps we should start off with a promise that is current, and that is the Government's promise in relation to the case before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at the moment on wage indexation. Prior to the election this Government said that it would not interfere with indexation. Since this Government came to office we have seen the workers sold down the drain. The Government has opposed all the indexation cases. This Government has tried to deny to employees in industry the wage increases which it said it would not interfere with; so much for that promise. What the Government is trying to do is to throw onto the backs of the ordinary employees the cost of defeating inflation. 
It is often said that the worst inflation in Australia's history was while the Labor Government was in power. Personally I think the worst inflation in Australia's recent history will be in this year when the Labor Government is not in power. But the worst inflation in Australia's history was in the early 1950s when the inflation rate was about 25 per cent. What happened at that time was that the then Prime Minister, who has so much to say today about judges over 70 years of age still being capable, went into the Commission and argued with the employers for abolition of cost of living adjustments which gave the workers a fair go. At that time the Commission agreed to the abolition of cost of living adjustments with the result that for many years workers were deprived of any adjustment to their wages because of that decision. 
What about this Government's promise to retain the home mortgage payments taxation deduction scheme? That benefit is now only applicable for the first 5 years. I realise, that this Government introduced another scheme but if honourable members sit down and work out the figures on this scheme they will realise that it is the people with wealthy parents who will benefit under this new scheme. There was also the promise of no interference with Medibank. Now we have the Medibank muddle. This Government introduced a Medibank levy after it had opposed a levy when the Labor Government first introduced Medibank and wanted to finance it by the application of the levy. What did this Government do at that time when it was in Opposition? It opposed that proposal and defeated it by the use of its numbers in the Senate. The Government has conned people into going back into private health insurance funds. The Government introduced a levy and of course emasculated the Medibank scheme as we knew it 12 or 18 months ago. 
What about this Government's fourth promise? This is a promise which was made to the Aboriginal people of Australia. Prior to the election in 1975 the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  who was then the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs sent telegrams to the various Aboriginal communities throughout Australia saying that they had nothing to worry about if a Liberal Government were elected to power. I think that the Aborigines themselves now fully realise how hollow that promise was because we have seen cutbacks in special works projects. We have seen cutbacks in finance made available to provide housing for Aborigines. We have seen cutbacks in many areas. In my own electorate of Grey which has a large Aboriginal population the number of homes which were to have been provided for Aborigines this year has been halved. In Port Augusta where I live, an area in which a lot of Aborigines require homes, there was a scheme to provide 53 homes. Fourteen of those homes have been completed and it appears at this stage that that is where the scheme will finish. So we can see that that promise has been broken to the Aboriginal people. 
On the question of land rights for Aborigines in the Northern Territory, the Labor Government introduced its legislation but because of what happened in December 1975 the legislation did not come before the Parliament for a decision. The Liberal Government introduced legislation similar in many respects but its legislation took out a lot of the teeth that were in the Labor Party's legislation and handed certain of the proposed powers over to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and we know what is going on there at the present time. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is doing a bit of duck shoving trying to get out of its responsibility to implement this legislation. 
There are other areas in which the Government has either not kept its promise or has taken steps which have hit the less fortunate people in our society. One area is the provision of aged persons accommodation. Not only has the Government cut subsidies to aged persons homes but it has also cut back on the aged persons homes program generally. In my own area there are 8 projects which have been undertaken by various committees to provide aged persons accommodation. The programs have been spread out over a 3-year period. A nice Press statement was put out that makes the programs sound good but the fact is that these people now have to wait years before they get any assistance. Of the 8 projects in the electorate of Grey only one is to be financed this year. No projects are to be financed next year but there is to be one the year after. No wonder the people who are on these committees to provide accommodation for the aged in our society are feeling frustrated at what they get out of this Government. 
In the Queen's Speech there was mention of introducing industrial legislation. If one looks back into history and sees the record of the Liberal Government on industrial legislation one will see that it is certainly not good. All it has been able to do is bring about confrontation with the unions, confrontation from which in many cases the Government has had to back down. This goes back to the time of  Sir Stanley  Bruce when a conservative Prime Minister was going to wield the big stick as far as the unions were concerned. But what happened? He got a thrashing. The same thing will happen to this Government if it tries it. We have heard protestations that the people on the other side of this chamber are not union bashers. I do not say that all of them are. I know there are some men on the other side who adopt a very reasonable attitude as regards unions in general, but this Government has its fair share of union bashers sitting on the other side of this House. If there are any doubts about this honourable members have only to read the debates on the trade practices legislation which was discussed here within the last few weeks. When the Liberal Government starts talking about introducing legislation to do something about trade unions and so on the unions have no cause whatsoever to trust that legislation because on very few occasions has this sort of legislation been in the interests of the unions themselves or in the interests of the members of the unions. Anything the Government does will not be trusted by the trade union movement and will only lead to a confrontation with the organisations involved. If we have any doubts we have only to look at the Government's attitude to the present wage indexation case now before the Arbitration Commission. The attitude taken by this Government will mean that if it gets its way the ordinary workers in industry will be the ones who will be asked to pay the price for solving our present economic problems. 
I think there are some who would like the Government to go back to the penal clause days. The penal clause provisions caused more disputes than they ever settled. Again this was an occasion when the Liberal Government did try to get tough with the unions on an issue on which it had very little valid grounds and when the unions stood up to the Government it was not the unions that backed down; it was the LiberalCountry Party Government that backed down. 
Of course this proved nothing. By using the big stick you will not get anywhere. 
I would like to refer to something of particular interest in my own electorate. It also affects the Newcastle district. I refer to the future of the shipbuilding industry. The present Government apparently is prepared to let this industry in Australia die. It has even tried to place the blame for this on the Labor Government. But again whatever this Government thought of the Labor Government's policy it has now been in office for 15 to 16 months and it has had the chance to rectify the position if it thought our policy waswrong. Let us look at the reasons why this industry is in its present position. This Government tends to forget the delays that took place from 1966 to 1972 in respect of Tariff Board reports. Government supporters talk about Tariff Board reports. The reports took years to come down. It was not until just before the Liberals were tossed out of office that they came down with a policy but now they try to say that it was the Labor Government that caused the closure of the shipbuilding industry. What about the delays that took place while our competitors- the main ones of Japan and South Korea- were re-tooling and setting up more modern shipbuilding yards so that they could undercut our industry? The whole of the industry in Australia was left in limbo over those 5 or 6 years. When the Labor Government came to power it was faced with the Liberal Party's neglect of the industry over those years. The industry did not know where it was going. It had no confidence to try to recapitalise, to put further finance into the industry to ensure that it could compete with industries overseas. What happened? 
Look, honourable members opposite have spoken a great deal about disputes in the shipbuilding industry. If workers in the shipbuilding industry had not stopped work for one minute they still would not have been able to compete with the overseas shipbuilding yards because of the antiquated state of the Australian shipbuilding yards. No modernisation works had been carried out. The yards were not prepared to take the risk of putting in more modern machinery. Of course, we have now reached the stage where our shipbuilding industry is not able to compete on an economic basis. 
That is quite right, too. The Government has had opportunities over the last few years when it could have come to some arrangement with the unions in trying to iron out some of the problems. We know that there were demarcation problems in the shipbuilding industry but that has not been the position for the last 5 or 6 years. I can remember that before ever I came into the Parliament discussions took place between the unions in an effort to cease the demarcation disputes that were taking place in that industry. Now we find that all the employees in the shipbuilding industry are under the umbrella of one union and that they can solve their own demarcation disputes. On the matter of disputes procedures clauses, I could talk for hours about disputes at Whyalla, the lack of disputes procedure clauses and what happened there in that respect. 
The honourable member's colleague is well remembered in Whyalla for saying that when he went to Whyalla the workers in the yard told him that five of them stood around to determine who should weld a piece of pipe. If he went to Whyalla now, he would be laughed out of the place. Of course, that is the situation in the shipbuilding industry. It does not appear as though the Government is prepared to do anything at all to try to resurrect the industry. The Premier of South Australia made a submission to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  some eight or nine months ago. The Prime Minister has not had the decency to reply to that submission. The Government, it appears, has allowed the Newcastle shipbuilding industry to go down the drain. Although the situation, in Whyalla is not as bad as it is in Newcastle, in seven or eight months' time the situation will be as bad. Industry in that decentralised area will be hit badly. 
During the last few days we have heard honourable members in this place talking about migrants. The greatest percentage of those people working in the Whyalla shipyards are migrants. I would say that they constitute 65 per cent of the work force. A major industry which is located in a country area and which employs a large proportion of migrant people is being shut down. Most of those people have lived nowhere in Australia but at Whyalla. They are building their homes there. Their children are attending school there. What will happen to those people? If the Government is concerned about migration, and if the Government is concerned about the future of a main centre which employs a majority of migrant people, I am sure that it would try to do something for the industry to ensure that the migrants about which it claims to be concerned, would find employment. Certainly there were problems in the industry, but I do not think that the Government has gone a very long way along the road towards trying to take a conciliatory attitude instead of the hard line attitude which it has adopted. 
What has the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  done? He closed his door on the industry. Of course, that action typifies his concern for the people who were made redundant by the Government's actions which were summed up in that cheap bit of doggerel that the Minister put over on the television program  Monday Conference  a few weeks ago. Of course, the Minister for Transport certainly has no love for South Australia. I am sure that every night before he goes to bed he sticks pins into a map of South Australia. Let us consider what he has done in the last few months. He has endeavoured to increase by 180 per cent the freight rates on Leigh Creek coal. The Australian National Railways Commission carries that coal to some of the main power stations in South Australia. I agree that there was justification for some increase in those freight rates by the Austraiian National Railways Commission, but I think a rise of 180 per cent is a little steep, particularly in a State which has the poorest coal resources in Australia. 
The cost of the reports that have been made on the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railway project could pay for the construction of a new Parliament House. The previous Labor Government and the South Australian Government came to an arrangement on that matter. A further report was called for. We had the Fitch report. Then we had the Maunsell report. Then the present Minister called for the Joy report. The Joy report was presented quite recently. That report said that there was no justification for the project to go ahead in its original form. Unless some agreement can be reached South Australia will still be without a rail link between Adelaide and the major standard gauge railway lines throughout Australia. That link is necessary so that South Australia can service its main markets which are in the eastern States. 
I refer also to the action of the Minister quite recently in trying to alter the agreement that was signed between South Australia and the Commonwealth in relation to the takeover of the South Australian State railways. The Government is trying to use its new federalism policy to weaken that agreement and to take away some of the advantage that South Australia may have gained from it. It is doing that by taking into account what benefits the South Australian Government will receive in the future. Where will the Minister stick the pin next? I have mentioned just 4 actions that he has taken with regard to South Australia and which will be to the detriment of South Australia. I ask again: Where will he stick the pin next? 
-This morning we heard a member of the Liberal Party tell the House he was tendering his resignation as a member of that party. He gave a number of reasons for taking that action. One of his reasons was that he did not agree with the Government in its attitude towards the Australian Assistance Plan. As we all know, the Australian Assistance Plan was an initiative of the former Labor Government to bring social welfare and so forth into the hands of the people. This initiative was well received in the various pilot areas in which it was implemented. Throughout Australia 37 regional councils were set up to carry out the proposals of the Australian Assistance Plan. Two of those councils were in South Australia. One was called the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development and the other was called the Northern Spencer Gulf Regional Council for Social Development. These projects are now in jeopardy because of the attitude the Government has taken in that as from 30 June these particular activities will no longer be financed by the Federal Government but responsibility for them will be handed over to the States. The action of the Government is placing in jeopardy all the work that has been done in this field by these organisations over the last couple of years. 
Recently correspondence has been forwarded to South Australian members about the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development. I am sure all South Australian members would have received the brochure I have before me, which gives a clear description of what the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development was able to do, what bodies it was able to assist, and what it will mean if that funding is cut out for it does appear that the funding is going to be cut out. My particular concern is about the Northern Spencer Gulf Regional Council for Social Development which operates in my area and in the area represented by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I certainly hope that he is concerned about this matter too. This Council covers 21 councils in regional areas. A lot of these councils are in the electorate of Wakefield. But the major local government bodies are, of course, in the Spencer Gulf region. I mention a few matters relating to the Northern Spencer Gulf Regional Council for Social Development. This council, unlike the Western Adelaide Regional Council, operates without a capitation grant. It has been in existence since June 1975. Its area covers 40 000 square kilometres or 4 per cent of the State, and comprises 21 local government bodies. The character of the region varies dramatically with a resident population of approximately 82 000. In addition, there are additional pockets of population living in unincorporated areas to the north of the region and along the east-west railway line. The north of the region, of course, would be along the railway line  from  Port Augusta to Alice Springs. The people from these areas utilise the urban facilities that are provided by the 3 northern industrial towns of Spencer Gulf; that is Whyalla, Port Augusta and Port Pirie. The Northern Spencer Gulf Regional Council for Social Development is staffed by 3 community development officers operating from the 3 industrial cities. There is an administration clerk cum community development officer and a project officer operating in the area east of the Flinders Ranges. 
During its 2 1 months of operation the Council has succeeded in obtaining community participation which has led to the establishment of a homeless persons shelter, an emergency shelter for women and children, various self help groups and projects throughout the area. The Council was also instrumental in attracting the Remote and Isolated Childrens' Committee into commencing operations in the remote areas north and west of Port Augusta along the Transcontinental line and the north-south line to Alice Springs. Important gains have been made in breaking down local isolation and encouraging the growth of regional consciousness. The task has not been made easy by the uncertain future of the Australian Assistance Plan. Unless the Government changes its mind it appears that as from 30 June those organisations will not receive any more funding. Very progressive work has been done in this field by those organisations. Unless the Federal Government is prepared to change its mind on this matter, the Council will go out of existence. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it a fact that claimants for the unemployment benefit have to wait for 6 weeks before they become eligible for the benefit if they have voluntarily left their previous employment? Is the Minister aware of the publicity given to statements by a certain South Australian senator that 40 per cent of the unemployed have voluntarily left their previous employment? Is there any statistical evidence to verify these claims or are the claims a further attempt to play down the plight of people who are at present unemployed? 
-Last week  Hansard  contained an answer to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  regarding the population of the various electorates. As a mathematical exercise today I worked out the proportion of electors to population in the electorate of Grey. I have found out that of the 12 South Australian electorates Grey has the largest proportion of population to electors. I think we can assume from that that the electorate of Grey has a higher proportion of young people than the other electorates in South Australia. If we assume that there are more children in the electorate of Grey than in the other electorates, this highlights the need for an increase in the facilities by which these children can receive training in kindergartens and so on. Apart from kindergartens there is a need for care centres. When the Labor Government was in office it went a long way in assisting kindergartens and child care centres under the Children 's Services Program. In my electorate a lot of good work was done in respect of kindergartens. I am told that the child care centre at Whyalla is operating. I know that the one at Port Augusta is operating. It is understood that these centres will shortly be officially opened. 
Since the change of government there has been a change of policy. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  wrote to members of Parliament some 6 to 8 months ago announcing that the Government was going to change its emphasis on child care services. In the letter she said also that she looked on kindergartens more as a State responsibility than a Commonwealth responsibility. It can be seen that this is another one of those areas in which the Labor Government gave assistance but under the new federalism policy this Government is withdrawing funds from the area and throwing the responsibility back on to the States. The people who will lose are not only the people who are running the kindergartens but also, more importantly, the children and their parents who rely on these forms of education. I think we all received a letter from the Minister which indicates the concern that is expressed by people about the cutback in funds. This shows how government policy has changed. It reads: 
As you will know, the Government has been anxious to reorient the Children's Services Program to give greater emphasis to the provision of child care services for families in need, particularly single parent and low income families where it is necessary for the mother of young children to go to work. I have approved a number of grants over the past few weeks which are aimed at giving effect to this policy. 
Further on in that letter the Minister stated: 
For your information, I am attaching a listing of new project or projects in your Electorate State which have been approved by  me  in two recent announcements. 
When I read that letter I was all agog to find out what kindergartens were going to be assisted and what was going to happen about new child care centres. I turned over the page full of expectation to find these words: 
There were no new projects in your Electorate in the latest approvals under the Children's Services Program. 
Attached for your information is a listing of the new projects approved in your State. 
There was another attachment which said that a creche at Enfield was going to receive the magnificent sum of $500. 
I understand that in future the Minister may be asked to perform the official opening of these child care centres. I have found in the past when I have attended official openings of projects started by the Labor Government and completed under this Government that this Government has tried to take the credit. I could mention quite a number of instances, including a housing project in Port Augusta for Aboriginals. When the Minister attended the opening one would have thought that he was responsible for the project. It was quite obvious to anybody who knew the circumstances, including the people in that area, that the Minister had nothing to do with it. The whole project was approved in the time when  Senator Cavanagh  was Minister for 
Aboriginal Affairs. I would hope that at the official opening of the child care centres in the northern Spencer Gulf area the Minister will not, if she accepts the invitation to open them, take the credit for them because the credit does not belong to this Government. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Are wives of American servicemen being employed in the Australian Services Canteens Organisation canteen and store at Woomera; if so, how many and in what capacity. 
Are employment opportunities for local women being inhibited by the employment of wives of American servicemen. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 March, 1977: 
What guidelines have been laid down in regard to the reference to the Industries Assistance Commission of the Wheat Stabilization Scheme. 
-One can, of course, understand the venom which the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  put into his speech tonight. Last night the Privy Council gave a decision in favour of an electoral redistribution in South Australia. Of course, this decision will end many years of Liberal Party jerrymander in South Australia. Because of that decision, I believe, the Liberals in South Australia are pretty upset. Of course, we can understand the venom which the honourable member for Barker put into his speech and the derogatory manner in which he referred to the Premier of South Australia and also, of course, to the Minister for Transport in South Australia. 
I support the views of the Opposition in respect of this Bill. We believe that the legislation is a little precipitous, a little sudden. The Bill proposes the amalgamation of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. Apparently this proposal has not been thought out very well for reasons that I think have been clearly stated by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  The Bureau of Roads has done an exceptionally good job. Anyone who has had any dealings with the Bureau of Roads would agree with this. The Bureau has earned the respect of not only local government and State governments but also other people who are associated with roads in Australia. 
Of course, the Opposition does not say that there will not be advantages in amalgamating these 2 bodies. However, the Opposition feels that the legislation does not go far enough. It does not lay down guidelines and it does not say clearly how the Bureau is to report, whether it is to report to the public, to Parliament and so forth. The honourable member for Shortland referred in his contribution to the number of reports that have been brought down by the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that have not been made available to the public and in some cases have not been made available to the Parliament. I repeat that while the Opposition is not opposed to the amalgamation it believes that the repeal of the Bureau of Roads legislation should be left until further legislation is brought before the House. 
Members of Parliament have had approaches from local government organisations which have expressed their concern about what is going on. We have all received letters from local government bodies. Some of us have received petitions. I have received correspondence not only from the major cities in my electorate, but also from district councils. The City of Whyalla stated: 
Council has been informed that the Federal Government intends to proceed with the Amalgamation of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics, contrary to requests by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations and State Associations. 
Assuming that this intention will be put into effect this Council wishes to emphasise the necessity for the amalgamated body to be created by legislation that clearly sets out the body's role, its functions and its responsibilities. Secondly, it is considered vital that the new body is independent so that it may report direct to the Minister of Transport rather than be an appendage attached to or under the purview of the Department of Transport. 
Council is convinced that the future of road funding in South Australia and in the rest of Australia may well be dependent on having a body of the independence that is suggested above. No doubt other organisations and Councils will be contacting you on this matter and I would appreciate your earnest endeavours to comply with Council 's request. 
That is only one letter that I have received. I have similar letters from all the cities and district councils in my electorate. These bodies expressed concern as to what was likely to take place. This concern has also been expressed in a number of petitions that have been presented to this Parliament. I myself have had the opportunity of presenting a number of petitions from district councils. They express the sentiments contained in the letter which I have just read. 
I represent the electorate of Grey in South Australia which had probably the most under developed road works in that State. Therefore I have a particular interest in this subject. Progress on the Eyre Highway was very slow, probably at the rate of 30 miles a year, prior to the Labor Government coming into office. During that time there was a cry from Western Australia that the Eyre Highway was not being sealed. I asked the Minister for Transport of the time, a number of questions about this work. Invariably I received the answer that South Australia was allocated so much for its roadworks and that it set its own priorities. The blame was thus placed on the South Australian Government. No specific assistance was given to South Australia to complete either the Eyre Highway or the Stuart Highway to the Northern Territory. 
I would just mention the attitude of the Minister at that time. It was proved beyond doubt that 84 per cent of the people who travelled from west to east or east to west on the Eyre Highway originated from outside of South Australia. Yet the Commonwealth attempted to place on the South Australian Government the responsibility for sealing that track across the Nullabor. The same thing applied in respect of the Stuart Highway to the Northern Territory. Prior to the introduction of the national roads program the Labor Government of South Australia had sealed 80 miles of the Stuart Highway. This work is now at a standstill. Again the reply from the Minister of the time was that South Australia would receive an allocation of so much money for its roadworks, that South Australia would set its own priorities and that it was up to South Australia to spend the money. The inference was that South Australia could spend its money on this highway but that other roadworks would go by the board. 
South Australia was expected to provide the main highway to connect Western Australia to the eastern States and the Northern Territory. South Australia was not able to complete its works because of the inadequate amount of money that was allocated. In particular it was not able to complete the Eyre Highway until the introduction of the national roads program. This program was introduced, of course, during the period of the Labor Government. I heard the Minister for Transport interject previously when I mentioned this fact to the effect that the report had been prepared while he was the Minister. That may be so. But the Labor Government actually put the report into effect when it came to office. I am sure that we are now seeing the benefits of that project. In the very short time since the national roads program was introduced work on this highway has been completed. 
Much has been said lately about the Stuart Highway. I would like to refer to an article which appeared in the February edition of the  Northern Territory Newsletter.  We see from a reading of the article that the Northern Territory government is trying to blame the South Australian Government. The article states: 
Funds are expected to be made available next financial year to enable a start on the sealing of the Stuart Highway between Port Augusta and the Northern Territory border. The Cabinet Member for Transport in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Mr Roger  Ryan, said on February 1 the sealing program would take a minimum of five years to complete. He said the main reason for the delay in sealing the Stuart Highway had been the South Australian Government's reluctance prior to the national highways scheme to spend federal money on the Stuart Highway because of other priorities. 
Here again, as I said earlier, they wanted South Australia to spend all of its federal allocation on the main highways to Western Australia and the Northern Territory. But with the operation of the national roads program we still have not seen any further progress in the sealing of the Stuart Highway other than that a survey has been made as to the route of the new highway. I understand that quite recently a meeting was convened in Adelaide by  Senator Jessop  from South Australia at which a senator from the Northern Territory, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and a State member of Parliament were present. The meeting referred to South Australia's allocation of funds to seal the Stuart Highway. The whole of the Stuart Highway in South Australia runs through the electorate of Grey. Whilst I certainly do not expect that the Liberal Party, in the manner in which it plays politics, would invite members of the Labor Party to the meeting which was held in Adelaide, it is rather strange that the person most involved, the South Australian Minister for Transport, was completely ignored. Let me refer to a question that was asked in the South Australian Parliament. The State member for Stuart asked a question of the Minister for Transport which referred to the meeting that was held in Adelaide. In his reply, the Minister said: 
The position about the question that the Federal Minister referred to in that Parliament, I believe, arose out of a meeting which was held in Adelaide and which was orchestrated by  Senator Jessop.  I understand that the member for Eyre was one of those present, as also was the Country Party member for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, who assumes some degree of responsibility for roads. I believe, also, some other people representing commerce and industry were present, and really they met, as I understood it, to seek ways and means of trying to get additional funds for South Australia. 
One of the Liberals interjected: 
But you were kept informed of the meeting  weren't  you?  Mr Virgo  replied: 
No, I was informed by the press that that meeting was being held. The meeting did not extend the courtesy to the Minister for Transport in South Australia of inviting him to attend and, had the press not informed me, I would not have known even that the meeting was on. 
That is what these people thought of the South Australian Minister. They showed extreme discourtesy in holding the meeting and not even informing him that the meeting was to be held. Later in the answer, the South Australian Minister referred to the categories of national roads. He said: 
One of those categories is the national roads, and in 1977-78 South Australia will receive $15 000 000 from the Commonwealth Government, a reduction of 1 3.2 per cent in money terms. This year South Australia is receiving $ 1 7 300 000 but next year we will get only $ 1 5 000 000 and when that is considered in the light of inflation, one can realise just how badly we are treated by  Mr Nixon. 
One can see from those figures that South Australia certainly has not received much of a go from the present Minister. As I have said, to the present time it does not appear that any of that $15m for national roads in South Australia will be provided for the Stuart Highway. I know that there are other major road works going on in the electorate between Port Augusta and Port Pirie and between Port Augusta and Whyalla. These are certainly major projects but they are all projects that were approved in conjunction with the South Australian Government during the period of office of the Whitlam Labor Government. They are progressing and we would certainly hope that they will continue to progress. This question of the Stuart Highway is very important because not only is it a major highway to the Northern Territory, it also serves those isolated townships in the northern part of South Australia such as Coober Pedy and the Woomera Rocket Range area. Something that has always amazed me is that although the South Australian Government completed 130 kilometres of that highway north-west of Port Augusta, there are still 50 kilometres in the middle between Port Augusta and Pimba that were not completed. It has been like that for quite some time and although we know that the highway itself will be taking a different route to the one it takes now, it will still follow the same route between Port Augusta and Pimba. There is no reason that 50 kilometres of road cannot be sealed to at least give the people in the northern part of South Australia that additional length of sealed road. 
With regard to weather conditions in this area, as many people would know, if there are heavy rains both the railway and the roadway are out. On many occasions they are out for quite some time. I certainly hope, as has been stated in the earlier statement I read out, that money will be allocated in the very near future so that these projects can proceed. The honourable member for Barker was very strong in his criticism of the South Australian Premier and also of  Mr Virgo,  the Minister for Transport in South Australia. He made a number of remarks in which he accused the South Australian Government of abandoning rural areas in South Australia. I represent 5 1 per cent of that State and my electorate is a large rural and pastoral area. Anyone who cares to come out to that area, go through it and then say that the South Australian Government has abandoned it would be talking through his hat. One can see this in the provision of major roads, and schools and the other facilities that go to make life worth living to those areas. One of the things that the Labor Government pledged for those rural areas was to introduce community health centres and various other amenities such as that, which Liberal Governments for years had never provided. But the former Labor Government, when it was in office, provided these things in rural areas. So to say that the South Australian Government abandoned the people in the rural areas is just a lot of hogwash. 
I refer to some of the figures mentioned by the honourable member for Barker. The Premier of South Australia issued some information regarding the allocation to South Australia. Apparently the State was informed in a letter from the Prime Minister that no State would receive less than it received the previous year. That referred to next year. That was reluctantly accepted on the basis that it would be honoured. One would naturally assume that this means no less in real terms, that is, that at least zero growth would be maintained. The allocation for road assistance in South Australia for 1977-78, as advised to the South Australian Government, is $40.4m compared with $38. 8m in 1976-77. Therefore, the increase to the State is a mere 4. 12 per cent. Nobody who looks at those figures would say that they represent zero growth in real terms. In fact, it would appear that there would be at least a 10 per cent reduction in the road allocation to South Australia. One could also look at the effect that this could have on the employment situation in that State with a 10 per cent reduction in real terms in the road works program. When one compares those figures, that is what happens. It was also stated that the State itself is paying a higher quota than it has paid previously. In the figures I have here, and I think they are pretty right, the State's quota for 1976-77 was $34.2m compared with $37.2m proposed for 1977-78. This is an increase of 8.77 per cent, or more than double the Commonwealth's increase. As I said earlier, the Commonwealth's increase was 4.12 per cent. The State 's allocation was an increase of 8.77 per cent so I think that this places a query on the figures that were used by the honourable member for Barker. 
It is a fact that this year South Australia is receiving progressively less as a proportion of the Commonwealth grant for road works. It has decreased from 1 1.5 per cent in 1967-68 to 8.5 per cent proposed for 1977-78. It appears that the South Australian Government is being penalised in its road works program perhaps because it is developing an efficient transport system. It is also interesting to note that in 1973-74 the State's quota, compared with the Commonwealth's quota, was 54 per cent whereas the proposed quota for 1977-78 is 92 per cent of the 
Commonwealth grant. So we can see that compared with what the Commonwealth is allocating, the South Australian Government is contributing a higher amount. I think that this refutes some of the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Barker. I was disappointed to note the venom in his speech against the South Australian Government. I conclude by saying that this venom is brought about by the frustration of honourable members on the other side of the House at the introduction of full democratic government in South Australia. 
-! have just heard in the last few minutes what the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  had to say. I think I heard the name Wilcox mentioned. I also heard the Naomi women's shelter mentioned. 
-I personally know  Ms Wilcox  and I know her family. About 3 or 4 years ago she was successful in establishing the Naomi shelter in an area of Adelaide where it was particularly needed. 

 Honourable members interjecting - 

-Ms Wilcox, whatever her faults are, from all the reports I have received has done an exceptionally good job in the work she has been doing. She has provided a service to deserted women, to women who have been bashed up by their husbands and to the children of those women. 
The honourable member should go outside the Parliament and say that where  Ms Wilcox  can have a go at him instead of saying it in this cowards' castle. What the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  has done is typical of what the South Australian Liberals have done. On 2 occasions they have used the privilege of Parliament in South Australia- their cowards' castle- to make similar charges against  Ms Wilcox.  The Premier of South Australia himself said that the Department would conduct an examination of the books and that if anything was wrong it would be reported. But nothing has come from that examination yet. The members of the Liberal Party in South Australia, as has the honourable member for Kingston tonight, have used the privilege of Parliament to attack a woman who has been prepared to go down to what the honourable member for Kingston would have to admit are some of the worst slums in Adelaide and do one of those jobs that many people would not be prepared to do. 
On 2 occasions, Liberal parliamentarians have raised this matter in the South Australian Parliament. On one occasion, they did not pick a member from Adelaide to do it; they picked the member for Mount Gambier. He read a statutory declaration in the House. Of course,  Ms Wilcox  cannot take any action against these people. They are prepared to speak in their cowards '- castle- under the privilege of Parliament- to make those charges. I suggest that if they want to make those charges, they make them outside the Parliament where  Ms Wilcox  will have a proper right to defend herself in the courts. I suggest that honourable members who hide in their cowards' castle as we have seen tonight and as has been the case on 2 occasions in the South Australian Parliament to run down this woman in the manner in which they have, should examine their morals. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
When will a decision be announced regarding the 3 possible routes for the proposed new Stuart Highway. 
My question is also supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. Is the Prime Minister satisfied that the Australian Government is fully and accurately briefed on the real activities at Pine Gap and Nurrungar, in the light of the statement by the defendant in the Los Angeles spy trial that there was Central Intelligence Agency deception against Australia in relation to these bases? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
In view of the successful offer by the Channel 9 network for exclusive rights to telecast the forthcoming test cricket series against England, is the Australian Broadcasting Commission negotiating with that organisation to allow ABC channels in non-metropolitan areas to relay test cricket programs. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Are the facilities of the Australian National Railways workshops at Port Augusta being utilised for the construction of major bridge works for the Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway now under construction. 
If not, what is the reason for the ANR not using its own workshops for this work. 
-Whilst the Opposition does not oppose the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill there are a few remarks I should like to make on this Bill. Firstly I refer to something that was said in the speech of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  He referred to the statement of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that South Australia got a good deal out of the rail transfer agreement. We all know the Minister's attitude to this. But I can assure honourable members that South Australia will probably finish up behind because the Minister will get that money back by the back door by increasing freight rates for the carriage of coal from the Leigh Creek fields to Port Augusta power station by something in the vicinity of 180 per cent. So he will make sure he gets some of the money back. 
This legislation gives effect to the agreements entered into by the Labor Government during the years 1972-1975. These were certainly long overdue. Possibly there has been a bi-partisan approach to rail standardisation and advancement of our railway services. Following the problems of World War II the question of standardisation received some consideration. The Chifley Government made a start on the matter and the 
Government that followed it carried on with the project. During the following 23 years of government we did see some progress that got us away from the mess the Australian railway system had been in for so many years. Australia suffered for so long because of the insular and narrowminded attitudes of the States in the last century. Our railways system was broken up into 3 different and completely insulated systems with the result that our railways were hopelessly inefficient. We had the 3 feet 6 inch gauge, the 4 feet 8Vi inch gauge and the 5 feet 3 inch gauge. The foolishness of this attitude was exemplified by Port Pirie, a city of my own electorate, into which 3 feet 6 inch, 4 feet 8V4 inch and 5 feet 3 inch gauges all came. That indicates the stupidity of the attitude of some of our forefathers in their approach to standardisation. 
Of course we have seen some progress since those days. The Melbourne-Sydney line has been standardised and the line from Brisbane to Sydney was standardised many years ago. The Sydney-Perth line was linked up a number of years ago and the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line is progressing. In a few years time we should see that standard gauge line reaching the Northern Territory. But there is one project in which there has been some controversy; that is, that the city of Adelaide is still not linked to the standard system. Because of this, the whole state of South Australia misses out There have certainly been some reports on this aspect. I imagine that if one were to get all the reports and tear them all apart, they would reach from Adelaide to Crystal Brook without any problems. 
However, despite the fact that we were making some progress in the whole problem of standardisation, we still had another problem. We still have 6 different State railway systems as well as the system run by the Commonwealth Government. This in itself created problems in Australian transport and worked against the effective use of our transport facilities. But during the years of the Labor Government, as was mentioned by previous speakers, this problem was examined. An offer was made to the States that the Commonwealth Government take over the State systems. This was a logical move if the railway systems were to be used more effectively and were to become a major factor in our general transport system. We all realise that in Australia, with our long distances, transport has a very high cost factor. The more efficient we can make our railway transport system, the more we will be able to keep those transport costs down, which is essential. It would certainly allow us to make far greater use of the transport resources which we have. 
When this matter was first raised, 3 States were prepared to come to the party in allowing the Commonwealth to take over their railway systems in an effort to bring about one railway system throughout Australia. But one of those States pulled out. There was a change of government in Western Australia. Because a Labor Government had been doing the negotiating over the take-over of the West Australian system, on the change to a Liberal-Country Party Governments, Western Australia pulled out. This left the South Australian and Tasmanian Governments. Negotiations proceeded with these 2 States and agreement was reached with the Federal Government on this project. It was arrived at because those 2 States saw that there was an advantage to be gained from this particular arrangement. We realise that the agreement upset the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and still upsets him because he seems to feel that the States had too good a go out of it. This Bill facilitates the finalisation of negotiations that have taken place over the last 2 years. It will allow the matter to be brought to finality. Previously a period to allow the agreement for the transfer of employees had applied. We hope that this Bill is the culmination of those negotiations because during the last 2 years many discussions and agreements have taken place between the various unions and people involved. The various by-laws that relate to the railway systems have also had to be discussed. We trust that we have now reached the stage where those agreements are valid and have been freely negotiated and agreed to by the people involved. I notice that the Minister referred to this point in his second reading speech. I trust that he is correct in what he said. 
Let us look at a breakdown of the Bill. I have spoken to many former South Australian railway employees and also Australian National Railways employees- formerly Commonwealth Railways employees- on the question of superannuation. Of course, what was going to happen as regards superannuation was one of the stumbling blocks to agreement. It is very pleasing to see that some of the fears that were held by some South Australian employees who felt that their superannuation system was a better system than the Commonwealth one have been allayed and that the situation has now reached the stage where a person coming to the Comonwealth system from the State system- either Tasmanian or South Australian- can elect to retain his State system superannuation. He would thereby gain any benefit he felt would come from that particular system. I have had a look at both schemes. I can see that there are some advantages in the South Australian scheme when compared with the Commonwealth scheme and that there are also disadvantages; it works both ways. But at least an employee has the opportunity of making that decision himself. 
There is a clause in the Bill dealing with promotion appeals. I have had problems in the past regarding promotion appeals with the ANR, or the Commonwealth Railways as it was then called in my former work as a union official with that railway. In some areas the question of promotion and appeals against promotion became a bit of a problem, particularly when a wage employee was elevated to a salaried position. At that time salaried employees had their own appeal system. The wage employee had a seniority system which did give him some rights of appeal. But if a wage employee moved to a salaried position, there were no appeal provisions. Some appeal provisions were made later on but they certainly were not as satisfactory as they should have been. The same applies to the disciplinary appeals. It is noted that the provision for disciplinary appeal boards will be added to the legislation. We trust that this has met with the approval of the unions who would no doubt have examined this matter closely because some of the older by-laws are old fashioned and out-of-date and certainly needed bringing up-to-date. 
I can remember when on the job I used to carry around, practically as a bible, the by-law which covered the conditions of employment and so forth. I say 'bible' because I think it was nearly as old as the Bible. I think it carried the date 1925. It was hopelessly out-of-date. I remember one condition that stated that a railway employee could not give or lend anything to an Aboriginal. It then went on to define what an Aboriginal was and whether he was a half caste or of a particular race. It also covered the children of those particular people. It was the most stupid thing that one could ever see in a day's march. Of course, that provision about Aboriginals was later taken out of the by-law. 
One of the public changes that will take place under this legislation is the removal of ANR employees from jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator to that of Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This in itself could be a big step forward because there certainly have been problems in the operation of unions under the Public Service Arbitrator. One of the biggest problems was that when a decision was given by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, it had to flow on and it had to be handled by the Public Service Arbitrator. Delay would occur there and because of the operations of the Public Service Arbitrator, any decision he made would have to lie before the Parliament for a particular time. The result was that there were many delays in the payment of any increase to ANR employees. I could cite cases where ANR employees had to wait up to 8 months before they received their increase. We hope that by placing these employees under the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission a lot of these delays will not now occur. 
I refer to what is happening at the present time. A few weeks ago ANR employees received their increase, not for the December quarter but for the last September quarter. Some weeks ago the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission granted a $5.70 increase across the board throughout the country. Let us not forget that this rise took place in the October to December quarter. These people will have to wait another three or four months at least before they can expect to receive this increase. It is to be hoped that the operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will mean that a lot of these delays will be obviated, which will mean a much better arrangement and will certainly give greater satisfaction to the employees. 
Mention was made earlier of the Crystal Brook railway project. I have said that there have been quite a few reports on this subject. Looking back into the history of the matter, I can recall the Fitch report being presented. It was prepared by a previous Commissioner of the South Australian Railways. On 27 May 1970 the then Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Sinclair,  sent the then Premier of South Australia a telegram advising that the Commonwealth Government had that day decided to accept the recommendations of the consultants for the provision of a standard gauge connection between Adelaide and Crystal Brook. On 18 March 1971 the then Prime Minister- the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)wrote  to the Premier advising him of the Federal Government's acceptance of the proposals. On 17 May 1974 the then Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, and the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  signed the Adelaide to Crystal Brook standard gauge railway agreement, which put into effect the written undertakings which had previously been given by  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr McMahon.  This agreement was ratified by both the Federal Parliament and the South Australian Parliament. 
Moving on from there, we have had the present Minister for Transport calling for a further report and we have since had the  Joy  report, which was released in February of this year. A copy of it was sent to the South Australian Minister, who then replied to the Federal Minister outlining the State's attitude. But a decision as to what is to happen to this line is still in limbo. This line is extremely essential to South Australia. South Australia is probably the most vulnerable State in Australia in relation to its industrial products. In the last couple of days we have seen the attitude of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd. It will have a big effect in South Australia if GM-H carries on with its proposal to put people off on a week's holiday. Because of South Australia's reliance on this type of industry it is essential that South Australia has a system that will at least provide decent transport facilities to the eastern States, which are the main market. So it is essential that the products from the main areas of Adelaide be transported on the standard gauge line. 
There are a few matters that I feel I should mention in the short time that I have left. One concerns the people who are presently employed by the Australian National Railways. The Australian National Railways owns a large number of homes. That is particularly so in the case of Port Augusta. I realise that it was essential in the more remote areas in the earlier days for the railways to build its own homes and provide accommodation for its employees. In Port Augusta the railways owns approximately 450 houses. However, there are problems in this respect because those homes go with the job, which means that anyone who leaves the job has to get out of his house. It also means that any employee who wants to change his employment will find it extremely difficult to do so because he will have to find other accommodation if he gets another job. It also hits fairly hard the retiring employees. Many employees live for 30 years or 40 years in the one home and develop that home. When it comes to retirement they are required to leave that home and find accommodation elsewhere. I appreciate that there are no evictions; nevertheless pressure is on these people once they reach retirement age, whether it be 60 years or 65 years, to get out of their Australian National Railways home and find another home elsewhere. 
I took up this matter with the previous Minister for Transport just prior to the dismissal of the Whitlam Government. I think that it is possible in areas of Port Augusta in which the homes are attached to the railways- I am not talking about those areas in which it is essential that the railways provide homes- to take the homes away from the railways and in a general sense get the railways out of the home ownership field. I feel that this can be done in 2 ways. Firstly, the homes could be offered to the present occupants for purchase. Alternatively the homes could be offered to the South Australian Housing Trust. In so doing it would take away the sort of company town position that applies whereby the house goes with the job. I think that that is a little out of date. I also think that it is about time something was done about the matter. I earnestly ask the Minister to have a look at this matter. I feel that there are areas in Port Augusta where houses can be taken from the railways and sold to the occupants or the South Australian Housing Trust. 
There is one other matter that I wish to raise in the few minutes that I have left to me. I have no doubt that either the Minister or the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have had correspondence on this matter. For a number of years Port Augusta has been the headquarters of the Commonwealth Railways, which is now known as the Australian National Railways. The railways occupies practically all the Port Augusta waterfront. I would say that the railways would extend, at a rough guess, for about 2 miles around the waterfront, with the exception of a small beach. For many years the town council has been concerned about this matter. The railways owns prime land. Any other normal industrial undertaking is required to pay rates. Being a Commonwealth Government authority, the railways is not required to pay rates, but it does make an  ex gratia  payment to the council. I understand that the  ex gratia  payment is worked out on the number of railway, properties that front council property. From memory the amount last year was $35,000. I think that that is a fleabite compared with what other major industries in other areas have to put into a local government authority. 
I have mentioned the people living in the Australian National Railways homes. In most cases those homes are on land that is owned by the Commonwealth and, as such, rates are not paid on that land. That does not apply in other areas, but there is quite a few of those houses that do not front council property. It is a fact that the people in them use the facilities of Port Augusta. Normally the landlord is required to pay rates for a house that is rented, but in this case in Port Augusta, although these facilities are available to all, the landlord- the Australian National Railways Commission- does not pay full rates. As I have said, it does make an  ex gratia  payment of $35,000, but that certainly does not cover what I feel and I am sure the town council of Port Augusta feels is the actual amount that it should be required to be paid. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1 977: 
1 ) How many man-hours have been lost by employees of the Australian National Railways Commission as a result of compensable injuries in each of the last 3 years. 
How many man-hours have been lost by ANR employees as a result of (a) industrial disputes and; (b) personal sickness or injury not job related during the same period. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the criticism levelled at the Minister for Industry and Commerce by the Mayor of Whyalla and councillors for the lack of response by that Minister to approaches concerning assistance to Whyalla as a result of the impending closure of the shipbuilding industry in that city? Is this lack of response in line with the lack of response by the Prime Minister to submissions made by the Premier of South Australia on the same subject and the Prime Minister's long delay in answering questions on notice which were put by me, again on the same subject, and which have been on the notice paper for quite some time? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Material Research Laboratory at Maribyrnong, Victoria, is the only establishment in Australia capable of carrying out calibration tests on electronic weighing kits used for the weighing of aircraft. 
Does the Government intend to cease the operations of this laboratory as part of the cut back in Federal Government expenditure. 
If so, what alternate arrangements are to be made to enable these necessary calibration tests to be carried out on the electronic weighing kits, which are required to be carried out every 12 months. 
I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. I preface it by reminding him that the Bailey inquiry which examined the proposed transfer of a large number of health and welfare services from the Federal Government to the State governments specifically commented that this transfer could be implemented successfully only if agreements were entered into concerning financial and other administrative arrangements. I ask: Is it true that no agreement was reached with any of the State governments prior to the decision to dump the Australian Assistance Plan in their laps and that most of the State governments also opposed the transfer of responsibility for legal aid embodied in the Legal Aid Commission Bill before the House because there are no guarantees about the future funding of the program? Do these decisions mean that the Government has decided to ignore  Mr Bailey's  recommendations and proceed to abandon its responsibility for community health - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) What are the present total strengths of fettling maintenance gangs employed on the former Commonwealth section of the Australian National Railways. 
How do these figures compare with each of the previous 2 years. 
How many fettling maintenance gangs are below strength. 
Are fettling maintenance gang numbers sufficient to effectively maintain minimum safety standards. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
1 ) What are the present strengths in each of the various running grades classifications in the Transportation Branch of the former Commonwealth section of the Australian National Railways. 
How do these figures compare with each of the previous 2 years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 May 1 977: 
1 ) Has any firm decision yet been made by the Australian National Railways to establish rail/road transfer facilities at Manguri on the Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway. 
If so, when can it be anticipated that the transfer facilities will come into operation and what plans are in hand regarding the existing Marree-Alice Springs section of the existing Central Australian Railway. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
To what extent are Australian National Railway homes, occupied by employees, at line locations, subsidised in respect of the amount of rent charged. 
Are ANR homes in Port Augusta, occupied by employees, subject to any rent subsidy; if so, to what extent, and now is the subsidy applied. 
It is not often that I agree with the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and I do not know that I agree with everything he said today. However, I certainly support the remarks he made about the lack of television services in country areas because, having a large country seat I know the problems of trying to get something moving on this matter. However, in blaming the Labor Government I think that the honourable member was on the wrong track because he knows that phase 7 was completed 18 months to two years ago and since then the present Government has done absolutely nothing about an ongoing program. He should be putting pressure on his own Minister to get something done. 
That is not my reason for rising in the Grievance debate. I refer to another matter which I have raised on a number of occasions concerning the situation which now exists at Whyalla. Since it became obvious 18 months to two years ago that there could be a lack of orders coming into the shipyards and the possibility was that the shipyards would close down, there has been a lot of concern among local people. The unions in the city, the town council and various organisations expressed their concern for the future of the city because the shipbuilding industry was the backbone of the city and was the industry upon which Whyalla grew. There were many approaches, including some very strong approaches by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Don  Dunstan, to the Federal Government to ensure that this large decentralised city was not going to be severely damaged by any lack of shipbuilding orders or by a decision by the Government to allow the shipbuilding industry to die. All approaches have received a negative response. I introduced a deputation of Whyalla organisations to the Minister about 18 months ago. The deputation wanted to find out what the future held. There have been approaches by various other bodies such as the Whyalla City Council, the chamber of commerce and the combined union councils but all these approaches have received a negative response. In many cases they received no response whatever and this also caused some concern because the people who were worried about the future could not get any indication from the Government as to the position. They took the trouble to invite Ministers to Whyalla but up to date all approaches have been to no avail. It appears that the industry has gone. 
Problems began in Whyalla six to eight months ago and the situation now is that lay-offs are starting. This Government, which claimed during the last election that it supported a viable shipbuilding industry, is going to allow this industry to die slowly. The crunch day has come to Whyalla and many people, some personal friends of mine, have received their notices. What they are going to do now nobody knows. This is a decentralised area and while the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd may be able to absorb a number of people into the steel works in the city there are a lot of tradesmen who find now that there are no employment opportunities for their trade in that city. These people will have to either move on or accept a lower paid job in the steel works. Although there have been assurances from BHP about the job situation it is obvious that it will not be able to absorb all those tradesmen who will become redundant. 
A few months ago- in late May- there was the release of a report by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The recommendations in the report raised the hopes of the people in Whyalla. The report states that on 4 May 1976 the whole Committee resolved that a subcommittee to be known as the Sub-committee on Industrial Support for Defence Needs and Allied Matters investigate and report on those matters with particular attention being given to manufacturing, backup industries and research facilities. Of course, this raised the hopes somewhat of the people in the city for most of the members of this Committee were fairly responsible members of this Parliament. They presented a report on which a fair amount of work had obviously been done. Certainly it was a considered report and I thought that the Government should have taken up its recommendations. 
The Whyalla City Council was concerned about the report and tried to do all it could to see that the report was adopted and as a means of achieving this, asked for a meeting of all South Australia senators both Labor and Liberal. It requested that they come to Whyalla and have discussions with the Council about the report and whether it would be accepted by the Government. The meeting was attended by six South Australian senators. There were Senators Bishop, McLaren and Donald Cameron from the 
Australian Labor Party and Senators Jessop, Messner and Davidson from the Liberal Party. Having been invited, I also attended as did  Mr Max  Brown, the local member for Whyalla in the State Parliament. After a deep round table discussion with the Whyalla City Council all senators unanimously agreed to support the recommendations of the Committee. In addition the South Australian Premier had indicated his full support for the recommendations of the Committee. As a result all six senators signed a joint letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  asking that the package deal contained in the report be accepted. I also sent a letter to the Prime Minister making a similar suggestion. We have learned in the last week that the recommendation has been flatly rejected by the Prime Minister and that is where the matter now rests. 
After this conference took place the Whyalla City Council organised a further deputation to see  Senator Cotton  about the matter and in the report of that meeting which was sent to me the deputation said that it was received courteously and cordially. However, I am afraid that the other matters contained in its report are not very encouraging. The delegation sought some information as to how matters were progressing but up till the present time there has been a lamentable absence of information available to the community. One of the suggestions of the Minister was that officers of the Department of Social Security and the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs would be sent to Whyalla to make suggestions. As soon as it became clear in Whyalla what the future of the city would be the South Australian State Government set up a working party which has been working solidly since trying to find alternative industries and to make suggestions as to how the problems that have bit the city can be overcome. So what the Federal Minister suggested was a little late in the day because the South Austraiian Premier had organised a working party to look into all those matters long before the Federal people had taken any positive steps. While some positive suggestions have been made and a small amount of work has been found, these are only band-aid approaches and certainly do not solve the problem that Whyalla faces. 
My time is running short so I suggest that what the Government should do is retract its complete rejection of the recommendation that the report be adopted. It is not too often that we get all the senators from a State on the one side and in this case the senators, both Liberal and Labor, combined to sign a joint letter and issue a joint Press statement to the effect that they supported the adoption of the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and recommended the acceptance of the package deal contained in the report part of which was that a committee of all interested parties in the industry be formed. These include the Federal Government, the New South Wales Government because Newcastle is involved, the South Australian Government because Whyalla is involved and the Australian Council of Trade Unions because one cannot come to any arrangement unless the employees in industry also have a fair say in what is going on. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence suggested that this committee be formed to find out what can be done to ensure that effect is given to its recommendations, that is that Australia should maintain a viable shipbuilding industry as part of its defence program. To bring that about the Committee fully supports the retention of the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards as viable propositions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
What consideration has been given to the payment of compensation to South Australia in the likely event of the closure of the shipbuilding industry in that State, in a similar manner to the compensation paid to Queensland following the cessation of mining operations on Fraser Island. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1 977: 
1 ) Did he receive submissions from the South Australian Premier regarding proposals for the retention of the shipbuilding industry at Whyalla. 
If so, has he communicated with the South Australian Premier on those submissions; if not, when can the Premier expect to receive a reply to those submissions. 
-This Budget was introduced last Tuesday week in a blaze of glory. Since then it has been picked at and dissected. It is certainly not now the glorious document which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and supporters of the Government tried to lead us to believe it was. Quite a number of discrepancies in the supposedly revolutionary new system of taxation which the Treasurer proposes are already obvious. I wish to deal with several specific matters. As my time in this debate is limited, I will leave comment on many other aspects contained in the Budget until a later stage. 
One matter of great importance to the area I represent that has been affected by a decision taken in the Budget is the proposal to cut back federal funds allocated to water projects. This decision will have a grave effect on the three major towns in the northern part of Spencers Gulf in South Australia which rely on the River 
Murray for their water. The other day the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  produced a jug of water in the House. Although it was probably not the cleanest of water, I suggest that if he wants to see dirty water he ought to see the quality of the water that people in the three northern Spencer Gulf towns and in other areas of South Australia must use in their every day life. 
Sitting on my desk at Port Augusta is a bottle, about the size of a small sauce bottle, filled with tap water from Port Augusta. When the water settles, the bottom of this small jar is covered with one and one-eighth inches of mud. So that, after the sediment has settled, I will not be deluded into thinking the water is clear, every couple of days I tip the bottle upside down to remind myself how much mud is in the water. This quality of water problem has been recognised in South Australia for quite some time. But unfortunately the South Australian Government has never had sufficient finance available to do a great deal about this matter. It has applied what resources it has to try to rectify the position. 
Practically the whole of South Australia relies on water from the River Murray. The city of Adelaide uses other reservoirs for its water supply but the River Murray supplements that water supply. As a result murky water from the River Murray, which is not the best water for one's health, I am sure, gets into Adelaide's water supply. The northern Spencer Gulf towns do not have the advantage of large reservoirs from which to supplement their water supply. They have to take all their supply from the River Murray. 
The Whitlam Government recognised the problem that faced South Australia. It came to an arrangement with the South Australian Government to provide come finance to help Adelaide and the remainder of South Australia to overcome the problem. Prior to the agreement reached between the Whitlam and Dunstan governments in about 1974, the State Government had plans to filter the water used in Adelaide. At that time there was pressure for the water used by the northern Spencer Gulf towns to be filtered Because of priorities it was agreed that Adelaide should be the first area to receive filtered water. As a result of the agreement that was reached between the Dunstan and Whitlam Governments,  Mr Corcoran,  the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia, made a statement which indicated that in the foreseeable future the northern part of the State would receive filtered water. 
The people of South Australia could look forward to some action as a result of the money that was to be provided by the Whitlam Government. 
When we look at the Budget Papers, we find that last year $9.2m was allocated to South Australia in the form of assistance for water projects. This year that amount has been cut back to $6m. Of course, this amount of money will not assist the South Australian Government to any great degree in respect of its plan to provide filtered water. The estimated cost for the metropolitan Adelaide water treatment project is $l50m. In respect of water treatment for northern towns which, of course, are my responsibility, the estimated cost is from $32m to $48m. The estimated cost for the rehabilitation of River Murray irrigation areas is $53m; for the River Murray salinity control program it is $30m to $200m; and for the Bolivar effluent utilisation scheme it is $22 m. The total cost is a minimum of $287m. Of course, this amount of money obviously is beyond the resources of the South Australian Government. Although the State Government is applying its own resources to help to overcome this problem, certainly it will not get very far without the assistance of the Commonwealth Government. I propose to read some comments made in a paper on this topic by the South Australian Premier. He said: 
I must repeat, however, that with increasing use of the River Murray the physical quality (turbidity, colour, odour and taste) of Adelaide's water has deteriorated further. More importantly, our ability to disinfect the unfiltered water with chlorine is more difficult than ever before. In spite of high chlorine doses, the bacteriological quality by no means meets acceptable standards. This means in particular that our bacteriological monitoring system is no longer effective because any significant contamination is masked by the normal background levels. Thus while there is no confirmed epidemiological evidence to suggest that Adelaide's water supply has had an effect on the public health to date, there can be no guarantee that this situation will not change. 
I will read another statement by the Premier in respect of the northern towns of South Australia, among which are the three main cities of Port Pirie, Port Augusta and Whyalla. There have been great problems in these towns for many years in respect of water quality. There have been health problems. The Premier stated: 
With respect to the Northern Towns of South Australia served by the Morgan- Whyalla and associated water supply systems, you will be aware that of the thirteen cases of the fatal waterborne disease, amoebic meningitis, twelve have occurred in these towns. Whilst it was never proven that the water supply was involved, the facts of the case are that not one case has occurred since the South Australia Department of Public Health called for chlorination of the supply to a level which will ensure O.S p.p.m. free chlorine at the consumer's tap. The very high chlorine dosage rates required to achieve this residual with unfiltered water makes the water extremely odorous and unpalatable. The chlorine also makes the water very corrosive and the water supply system as well as consumer's pipes and fittings are being attacked. 
As a resident of this area I can verify all those facts. Only the other day a tourist pulled me up in the main street in Port Augusta and asked: 'Look, when you go west of here can you get a decent drink of water?' There is no question that the water is foul. As a matter of fact, people do not drink it. They rely for drinking purposes mainly on rain water collected in tanks. I can assure honourable members that the women of those areas have great difficulty in doing their washing with this filthy water. As I mentioned, the Whitlam Government provided finance during its term of office to help South Australia overcome its water problems. We see proposed in the current Budget a large cut back in assistance. As a result, the projects I have mentioned will be held up. There is a strong possibility they will never go ahead. I believe that the cutbacks will certainly put in jeopardy future plans not only for Adelaide but also for the northern towns of South Australia. 
I mention in this context the risk of amoebic meningitis. I am sure that the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  who is at the table, would be aware of the scares that occurred a few years ago in the summer months in these three towns, particularly Port Augusta. People with young children lived in fear of disease, amoebic meningitis. The incidence of that disease in the district was attributed to the quality of the water. As I mentioned earlier there were 12 deaths in that area from amoebic meningitis. Chlorine has since been added to the water and that has overcome the problem but it certainly has not improved the quality of the water as far as its general use is concerned. I feel that by cutting back on the allocation of money in this area the Federal Government has abrogated its responsibility to the driest State in the Commonwealth and certainly the one with the least reliable water supply. At the present time much of the State is in the grip of drought conditions. The amount of other water available is not of a high order. The other night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when referring to the present Government's attitude to these projects stated: 
Last May the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for National Resources admitted that 'the present Government does not have a program of assistance to the States for water projects'. Last Wednesday he had to read a long abdication. He reverted to an attitude he used to express in 1962 that water projects were a 'State responsibility', that 'the State governments should find the whole of the money'. 
Earlier I mentioned the cost of this project. While there were agreements between the Whitlam Government and the Dunstan Government for the Federal Government to come to the party to assist South Australia so that it could carry out these projects, unless that assistance is available I am afraid any progress in South Australia will be slowed considerably. It will be quite some time before Adelaide has filtered water. It will be a long time before the northern Spencer Gulf towns, the major industrial centres outside the Adelaide metropolitan area, ever get their filtered water. 
I shall mention a few matters dealing with the Budget. It was thought that the Budget would be an election winner. But we have since seen that the reaction to the Budget has not been so good. We have seen that because of the reaction to the Budget other false issues have been raised. Last week we saw the industrial relations legislation pushed through this House. I am sure that was done with the sole intention of trying to take people's minds off the Budget in case the Government decides to go to an election in December. Under the guise of defeating inflation many major initiatives were either cut back or wiped out when compared with what happened during the few previous years of the Whitlam Government. There were many cuts in the welfare field. I refer to cutbacks in finance for aged persons homes. I refer to my own area where nine projects were in various stages under the three-year program which was introduced by the Government last year. Only two of those projects will receive assistance. Last year the Government was also responsible for cutting back the subsidy available to these projects. Not only are homes for the aged affected in this way but also senior citizens' clubs. So we can see that the Government has nothing to boast about in its welfare program. 
We saw the scrapping of the Australian Assistance Plan and the disbanding of all regional councils for social development which were set up in various pilot areas throughout Australia. They were doing a good job and certainly getting right at the nitty-gritty of some of the social problems which exist in many of our larger urban areas. I think the Government should stand roundly condemned for its decision that instead of paying unemployment benefits in advance they will be paid in arrears. My office happens to be on the ground floor. I know that many honourable members have their offices on the 15th or 16th floors. They may not have the unemployed walking into their offices the way they come into my office. I assure the House that this decision will create a great deal of hardship for many people. The Government may say that this was done because people had abused the system. 
I do not think the number of people doing that can be in any way compared with the number of innocent people who will be hurt by this decision.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
What assessment has been made by his Department of the copper and uranium deposits located on Roxby Downs Station in South Australia by the Western Mining Corporation. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Has the Government given any consideration to the suggestion of the South Australian Minister for Fisheries that the Commonwealth delegate to the South Australian Government its authority to manage fisheries in Investigator Strait which is an area recently adjudged to be Commonwealth territory by decision of the High Court. 
Will failure to agree to the South Australian Minister's suggestion result in duplication of fisheries management in Investigator Strait. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Do widows in receipt of a pension from the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme lose their pension on re-marriage. 
If so, how do the conditions applying to these widows compare with widows in receipt of a pension from the Superannuation Scheme. 
Will the Government take the necessary steps to place Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme widows on the same conditions that apply to widows in receipt of a Superannuation Scheme pension on their remarriage. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 8 August 1 977: 
1 ) What fisheries research programs are being carried out in South Australian waters by his Department. 
Are any fishing research projects being carried out in the waters of the Great Australian Bight or is it intended that such projects be carried out. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) What are the procedures to be adopted by a political candidate desiring to campaign in the Village area of the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera South Australia. 
Are any security restrictions placed on the candidate in the village area. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What is the  total  amount paid out by Australian National Railways, formerly Commonwealth Railways, for compensation as a result of loss of hearing by employees due to their employment. 
What amount has been paid by ANR for the supply of hearing aids to employees, who have a hearing loss which is compensatory. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Are railway sidings and yards between Port Augusta and Whyalla being utilised as holding areas for  Targe  numbers of Australian National Railways vehicles requiring repair. 
If so, is the ability of ANR to effect repairs to these vehicles being inhibited by the staff ceilings applied to ANR by the Commonwealth Government. 
Will he give consideration to allowing recruitment of redundant tradesmen, etc. from the Whyalla shipyards as a means of overcoming the backlog of repairs to ANR vehicles, and allow greater employment opportunities in that area. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
Did the Whitlam Government agree to plans to establish a new housing estate for Aborigines at Davenport, adjacent to Port Augusta, South Australia. 
If so, did those plans allow for the construction of S3 homes in that estate. 
Have only 14 of these homes been completed. 
In view of the drastic cuts in Aboriginal housing, is it the intention of the Government to complete the construction of the remainder of the homes included in the plans of the Whitlam Government 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 August, 1977: 
1 ) What progress has been made by the committee established to examine the viability of the Quorn-Peterborough and Gladstone- Wilmington railway lines in the mid-north of South Australia. 
When is it anticipated that the report of the committee will be released. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) What investigations have been carried out on the Plutonium known to be buried at Maralinga in South Australia. 
What are the results of those investigations. 
-My question also relates to the statement by the Prime Minister in his electorate address on Sunday last that in the last financial year production increased by 3.5 per cent. Is it a fact that between the June quarter 1976 and the June quarter 1977 gross domestic product rose by 1.4 per cent rather than 3.5 per cent? Is it also a fact that real household disposable income per head fell by 3.7 per cent during the last financial year? Does he not agree with the honourable member for Mackellar and many other commentators that there can be no salvation through stagnation and that these figures suggest that the economy must be stimulated to promote economic recovery? 
I wish to make a few comments on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. First of all, I back up the statements made by my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who referred to the decrease in real terms in the amount of money being allocated to Aboriginals. Although the figures in the Budget Papers indicate that the allocation is being increased, it is certainly an increase of a small amount. If we go back to the amounts allocated two years ago during the term of office of the Labor Government we find that in comparison the allocation for last year represented a very considerable cut. Of the amount cut, $2 5 m was restored, but it still left us $8m short of the allocation made under the previous Labor Government. Of course, by the time inflation is taken into account, that decrease in the amount of money available for Aboriginal affairs drops considerably. In fact, if we take into account the inflation rate of approximately 24 per cent that occurred over the last two years we find that the decrease is quite considerable. 
What can we see as a result of these cuts in the allocation of money to Aboriginal affairs? My colleague has already mentioned a matter that concerns me greatly and that is the large increase in the number of Aborigines who are unemployed. That situation is the direct result of these cuts in government expenditure. The amount of money allocated to the number of special works projects which provide employment for Aborigines in various country areas, of course, has been cut drastically with the result that town councils, district councils and so on that were able to make use of these special works projects now find these doors closed to them and the direct result is that large increase in Aboriginal unemployment which my colleague mentioned. 
I refer to the matter of Aboriginal housing. Some months ago I put a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  about the number of Aboriginal houses which will be made available in my own electorate of Grey. According to the figures which were given, the number is to be cut in half. That is a big blow to those people who are trying to overcome one of the serious problems facing the Aboriginal peoplethat is, the adequate housing of them. When we realise the work that has been done by the many building societies that have been established and the consequent availability of money for the purchase and the erection of homes, we can understand the way they feel about the cuts that have taken place. I have received telegrams from a number of people in my electorate in which I have been asked to protest to the Government about these cuts, because it is quite obvious that the work that they have been trying to do will be nullified by the action of the Government in cutting back the amount of finance available. 
I wish to raise a few matters connected with Aboriginal affairs in my electorate during consideration of the estimates for this Department. Quite some time ago a pre-apprenticeship training scheme was established in Port Augusta, in conjunction with the Port Augusta College of Further Education. The aim of the scheme was to teach young people the basics that would be required if they were to go on to take up an apprenticeship. I have a copy of the syllabus and the type of preparation that these young people are given, and it is quite good. I can assure the Minister that these lads are being advantaged, and it certainly gives them a good grounding in the taking up of an apprenticeship at a later stage. In the statement which he issued some months ago on the employment of Aborigines, the Minister said: 
The Commonwealth Government will take specific measures itself to increase employment for Aboriginals in Commonwealth departments and authorities. 
In the Port Augusta area a major Commonwealth instrumentality- I refer to Australian National Railways- trains apprentices. I know that the Minister has given me a reply to a question on this subject, but I certainly hope that, with the co-operation of his colleagues, some arrangement can be made whereby apprenticeships are made available to some of those lads who take part in the pre-apprenticeship training scheme so that they can have the opportunity of taking on these apprenticeships and taking their proper place in society. I ask the Minister to give that matter his closest attention because it is a proposition which is worthy of support. 
There is another matter which I have taken up with the Minister. Up to date I have received no reply in relation to it. A medical service has been established at the Davenport Reserve. That medical service has been financed mainly, I understand, from money provided by the Redfern medical service. Indeed, in order to keep the project going they wrote to me some time ago asking for my support in their approach to the Minister for funding for their activities. I have been absent from the Parliament for quite some weeks, but up to date I have received no reply which indicates whether they are to receive that financial support. I urge the Minister to give serious and sympathetic consideration to providing this medical service with the finance necessary to allow it to keep going, because it is providing a very necessary medical service in that area. 
It would certainly be missed if it were to go out of operation. It is felt that that may happen if it does not receive that financial support from the Federal Government. Again I ask the Minister to ensure that sympathetic consideration is given to allowing that service to continue. As an indication of what it has been able to do, I point out that in the last 12 months it has treated more than 2,500 patients in that area. I think that that suggests that the work in which that medical service is engaged is important. Again I urge the Minister to give it his consideration because, if he does not and it goes out of operation, that will create a large gap as far as the provision of medical services for these people is concerned. Incidentally, I can add that the service is mainly voluntary at this stage. Apparently there is a doctor who does a fair amount of work for it. Again I trust that it will receive the necessary support. 
One other matter concerns me. I refer to the statement by the Minister last May regarding the Commonwealth Development Employment Projects scheme. There are a few points about this scheme on which I would like some clarification from the Minister. One is that in the statement mention is made of the basis upon which the money would be made available. The basis is the amount of unemployment benefit that would be paid in a particular area. This might mean that the amount would be allocated to the particular administrative body in that area or to the council. It would allocate the work. That would certainly mean that a number of people would be employed full time. I assume that they would receive award wages. The amount available would certainly mean that it would not be possible to employ all the people. 
If we use the amount of unemployment benefit as the criteria for the amount of money available, one thing that comes to my mind is the question of the legality of this action. If the scheme is operated in such a way that a person who would normally be eligible for unemployment benefit finds himself without employment after the allocation of jobs at these settlements, are such people still entitled to unemployment benefit? I would like the Minister to clarify this point. If they are not, it appears to me to be a denial of rights to Aboriginals. I think it would be a big step backwards as it would mean that we would be creating discrimination, et cetera, amongst those people. Although the scheme has been highlighted by quite a number of people, I would hate to see in the operation of this scheme some steps which were backward steps. Whilst I agree that it is a lot better to provide finance which would provide work for these people than everybody to receive unemployment benefits, these people operate on a cash economy now. I think it would be tragic if we had half of them working and receiving money and the other half receiving nothing at all. I trust that the Minister will clear up that point when he replies. 
If that is the way in which the scheme is to apply, I again question the legality of this type of operation. If a person in our community satisfies the criteria for eligibility for unemployment benefit he gets paid that benefit. If the system is to operate any differently in the areas where the CDEP system is operating, that could be described only as discriminatory and something that I think should be rectified. I appreciate that the Minister has gone to some trouble in trying to work out a scheme to overcome the unemployment problem amongst Aboriginals. I feel that it has grown during the last 18 months or so. I trust that if we use this scheme it will be augmented with grants which will ensure that all those people who are eligible to work on the reserves and settlements can find employment. I trust we will not have a situation in which half will be working and receiving money and the other half will not be receiving unemployment benefit. I think that is about all I have to say on this matter other than to express my concern about the operation of the scheme. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-As we all know, quite recently there was a State election in South Australia in which the Labor Government was returned with a vastly increased majority. I am afraid that if this Government decides to hold an election the two honourable members from the Government side who spoke tonight will get the same treatment as quite a lot of Liberal candidates got in South Australia. One thing which was noticeable in the State election was the extremely high vote for the Labor Party in the City of Whyalla. One can look for the reasons for this extremely high vote. Perhaps we could look at the poor performance of Liberal politicians in South Australia who represent that area. 
I think we are all aware of the fact that for some time now the closure of the shipyard at Whyalla has caused a great deal of concern. Perhaps I could quote an example of Liberal Party politicians' contributions to these problems that occurred recently. Many approaches were made by local government, by various union organisations, by me and by others about these problems. Of course the approaches have all been to no avail. People were of the opinion that the shipyard was finished. Then a few months ago a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence presented to this House a report which recommended the continuation of the Newcastle and Whyalla shipyards. This created a bit of interest in Whyalla and raised the hopes of the Whyalla people that the Government would accept the recommendation of that sub-committee. 
The Whyalla Town Council decided that as senators are supposed to represent the State, not a political party, it would invite the senators to Whyalla to discuss the matter with the Town Council. The Council also invited the local State member,  Mr Max  Brown, and me. Six senators turned up, three from the Liberal Party and three from the Labor Party. They sat down and discussed the recommendation of the subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence regarding the retention of the shipyard. The recommendations were, of course, a bit of a package deal. They dealt with the matter of the injection of capital into the industry, industrial relations, the rationalisation of the industry and the establishment of a committee of all the interested bodies- the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the State Government, the Commonwealth Government and shipyard management- to work out feasibility plans on the retention of the yards. 
Hopes in Whyalla were, of course, raised by the recommendations of this sub-committee. As I say, three Liberal and three Labor senators turned up at the discussion, plus myself and the State member. It was agreed unanimously that the senators would sent a letter to the Prime Minister urging support for the implementation of the sub-committee's recommendations. I also sent a letter along the same lines to the Prime Minister. In the course of comments made by me to the local media after the meeting I noted how pleasing it was to see the senators taking the same line unanimously on what was in the interests of their own State. 
On 7 September  Senator Bishop  moved an urgency motion in the Senate to discuss this matter. One would expect that all senators would adopt the same line as they adopted at Whyalla but this was of course not the case. Two of the Liberal senators who attended that meeting, the other being overseas at the time, took a completely different stance in the Senate- to such an extent that they indulged in the usual rubbish of blaming the Labor Government. They even used incorrect information, and I am sorry that time will not permit me to discuss that aspect further. What happened? At the conclusion of the debate it was one of those Liberal senators that had signed the letter in Whyalla who moved the gag, and when the vote was taken all the Liberal senators opposed  Senator Bishop's  motion, even though it was along the lines they had agreed to in Whyalla, and concerning which they had put their names to a letter agreeing to approach the Government to seek implementation of the report. 
So, when we look at Whyalla we can see why the Liberal Party obtained such a poor vote in the recent State election. We can look at the track record of Liberal politicians in that area. We have shown that they go to Whyalla, tell the people there something, come back here and take a completely different stance. I am sure that that is why they polled so badly in the State election, and why they will again poll badly in future Federal elections. 
I would like to comment on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. I represent an electorate that is part rural and part industrial. The effect on the rural industry in my area has been very bad over the last few years. At present my electorate is affected by a drought and it seems there will be no wheat crop this year. For some areas it is the third bad year. This means that quite a number of farmers in those areas will certainly be hard hit and in need of assistance, and this makes the talk of a rural bank a little more relevant. For two years, since the last election, the Government has been peddling the idea of a rural bank. I think it has been a bit of a carrot dangled in front of the noses of farmers in the hope that a bank will be established that will give them what they require in order to remain viable in the years to come. 
Of course, there has been plenty of noises, and a few disquieting things have appeared in the Press and have been said in answer to questions in this House concerning the national rural bank. One wonders just what form the bank will take, because mention is made of the trading banks being participants. If those banks are to be participants, will the farmers get loans at a cheaper interest rate? By bringing in the trading banks, is the Government fooling farmers into thinking that they will get a loan at a cheaper interest rate that will not be available? I think everybody realises that the main need in these areas is for debt reconstruction, with long term loans at reasonable rates of interest. If farmers do not receive these loans they will be extremely disappointed. If they do not receive these loans I feel that the Government has led them up the garden path. 
There are needs in many areas of my electorate. There is the need for debt reconstruction, and long term financing is the only way in which these people will be able to keep going, particularly in the present circumstancesin which quite a lot of areas now are facing their third successive year of drought. The industries mainly affected are the grain and sheep industries, but they are not the only rural industries in Australia that are in trouble. The dairy industry, the beef industry, the dried fruit industry and the apple and pear industry are in trouble. The establishment of a national rural bank would assist the farmers. There is a quite wide area in which this assistance should be made available. 
There seems to be a predilection among people on the other side, particularly members of the National Country Party, to place all the blame for the ills in Australia's rural industry on the Australian Labor Party; to say that it all happened while the Labor Party was in government. Of course, these people quite deliberately have very short memories. Their memories do not go back past the period when the Labor Party was in office. They forget the years in which Australian wheat farmers were really in strife- in 1969, 1970 and that era. 
-It is all right for the honourable member for Capricornia to say 'Oh'. I can remember wheat being stacked in anything that would hold wheat. The position was the same all over the country. There were no silos. We were crying out for markets. Yet, by our political decisions we were denying wheat growers access to the market in China- a market that had been available previously. Because of our political decisions and our political attitudes, Australian wheat growers could not sell their wheat. When China did come back into the market our wheat industry improved. During that time wheat growers had wheat on the farm, anywhere it could be stored. They were without adequate markets. What was the result? The introduction of quotas was the result. It was said that the States introduced the quotas. The fact is that the wheat stabilisation scheme which gave farmers a guaranteed price for wheat was financed by the Reserve Bank of Australia. All the States agreed to it. They had to agree to it because the finance which would allow this scheme to operate was provided by the Reserve Bank. The Federal Government could have prevented that money from being made available. The States had no option but to accept what was put to them. 
Perhaps I could go back and refresh the memories of honourable members opposite about the beef industry. Last year or the year before I checked on the figures on the number of beef cattle in my electorate. I found that from 1970 to 1973 or 1974 the number of beef cattle in that area increased by three and a half times. During the period when the wheat industry was going bad the previous Liberal-Country Party Government encouraged people to go into beef. This was prior to the Labor Party coming into office. People in beef organisations now say: 'We were told to do it'. The result was a massive increase in the size of our beef herds. That Government believed that the market would be all right It showed a lack of foresight. Things did not turn out that way. Our beef industry is in the position that, although it is selling a fair amount of beef, the size of our herds has expanded to such an extent that they must be expanded a hell of a lot more before we can get rid of what we have on the hoof. 
Whom do we blame for this? The Labor Government is not to blame because it imposed an export levy or because it took away the superphosphate bounty. The previous LiberalCountry Party Government in the early 1970s is to blame. It encouraged the beef growers to increase the size of their herds. Because everybody else- the wheat grower, the wool grower and so on- was going bad, to hedge their bets they also went into beef. The result was that even small farms were carrying a certain number of cattle. As a result, in my electorate the amount of beef on the hoof increased by three and a half times. That was as a result of the advice given to the farmers by that Government. 
At present various rural industries are in strife. They are not getting a great deal of satisfaction from this Government. The present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been criticised all over the country. Motions of no confidence in him have been passed by various organisations- beef producer organisations, dried fruit grower organisations and apple and 1&gt;ear grower organisations. Many of them have lost confidence in the present Minister and do not have any confidence in his ability as Minister to pull these industries out of their present slump. Motions of no confidence in him have been passed all over the country. 
Mention was made by a few honourable members opposite of Labor's abolition of the petrol prices equalisation scheme. Certainly Labor did away with it. I did not agree with that at the time, but we did it. The effect of that on rural producers was absolutely nothing compared with the effect of the increase that the Government imposed on them a few weeks ago by its decision to increase the price of oil to world parity. The increase in the price of petrol which this Government brought into operation is a body blow to those people, particularly the people who now are trying to face the drought conditions that exist in the southern part of Australia. In the wheat areas of my electorate the maximum increase in the price of petrol was 2c a gallon, but the price of petrol has gone up by more than 2c a gallon during the last few weeks as a result of the action of the present Government. I think members opposite are being shabby and insincere when they blame the Labor Government. The present increase is a savage increase, at a time when the Government is talking about fighting inflation. This is one impost that the Government is putting on the people it claims to representrural producers. The impost- the savage increase in the price of petrol- on rural producers makes it a darned sight harder for them to keep their heads above water. 
It appears to me that members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party go around the country spouting divisive policies. They have a vested interest in keeping the city dweller and the country dweller apart. In the Green Paper put out by the Labor Government in 1973 much was said about communication. It is a fact that sometimes there is a lack of communication between the rural dweller and the city dweller. One of the things which seem to be a strong point with the people on the other side is their vested interest in dividing the Australian population. They feel that they are electorally stronger if they can keep the country dweller and the city dweller apart - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Are former United Kingdom servicemen, who are entitled to receive the Australian Service Pension deprived of the fringe benefits available to former Australian servicemen in receipt of the same pension. 
If so, will the Minister give consideration to removing this anomaly. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 October 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the employment problems facing tradesmen and other employees as a result of the rundown of the ship building industry at Whyalla. 
Is Australian National Railways at Port Augusta short of tradesmen in a number of classifications. 
If so, is this shortage capable of being overcome by using employees from Whyalla made redundant by the shipyard situation, if the staff ceilings in operation on ANR which restrict the ability of that organisation to recruit additional tradesmen, et cetera, to meet their requirements, were lifted. 
Will he consider lifting staff ceilings on ANR to enable further recruitment of staff, and by doing so, assist in resolving an unemployment problem created m that area of South Australia by the abandonment of the Australian shipbuilding industry at Whyalla. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 November 1977: 
As the construction of the new Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line has reached a point north of Coober Pedy, are there any plans in hand by the Australian National Railways to provide rail services as far as Manguri Siding to serve the township of Coober Pedy, now dependent on the extremely unreliable Stuart Highway. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 October 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to the concern that exists among railway employees at Peterborough, South Australia, regarding future railway activities in that town. If so, will he give a categorical assurance to those employees that the Peterborough railway activities will continue ensuring the future employment opportunities of employees in that town. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the electoral divisions of (a) Grey, (b) Kingston and (c) Stun at the end of (i) August 1 975, (ii) August 1 976 and (iii) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, (c) under 2 1 years of age and (d) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
-When a petition is presented to this House the  Clerk  usually states that the subject matter of the petition will be referred to the appropriate Ministers. I certainly hope that the petition I presented to the House the other day is referred to the appropriate Ministers and is acted upon. The petition was signed by 8,300 citizens of the City of Whyalla and they expressed their concern about future employment opportunities in what is the largest decentralised city in South Australia. The city of Whyalla grew from a small iron ore exporting port prior to the Second World War to its present size on the basis of its shipbuilding industry which was established during the war years. Whilst we saw in later years the growth of a steelworks at Whyalla it was the shipbuilding activity that gave the city its platform for that expansion. Whilst steel production at present provides employment for the majority of the work force of that city, the shipbuilding industry employed in excess of 1,800 people at the peak of its activity and provided a living for approximately one-third of the city's industrial population which, of course, is made up mainly of migrant people. People from all over the world with shipbuilding experience were brought to this city and as a result migrants make up approximately 65 per cent of the population. 
Some two years ago concern was expressed for the future of the industry by individuals and organisations in the city. This concern was expressed by organisations such as the Whyalla Combined Unions Council, the City Corporation and other bodies. As a result several deputations came to Canberra to express their concern about the future of the shipbuilding industry to the appropriate Ministers. Although certain assurances were given it can only be stated that the Government ignored the arguments put forward by the deputation.  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton, who was then the Minister responsible for this field, gave an assurance to the Mayor of Whyalla that he would visit the city to assess the situation. But, again, that assurance was not given effect as the then Minister never took the trouble to visit the city in an effort to evaluate the situation. This affront was felt by the City Corporation of Whyalla. 
Other steps were taken to try to save the industry, one of which resulted in a meeting at Whyalla between the City Corporation, local members of parliament, both Federal and State, and South Australian senators from both sides of the Senate. All Federal politicians present, representing both sides of parliament, agreed that they would support certain proposals and recommendations that were put forward in the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. However, of course, when this matter came before the Senate on the initiative of a Labor senator the Liberal senators reneged on the people of Whyalla and voted against the proposition. 
I do not have much time remaining in which to complete my speech. However, the main thing I want to say is that because of the particular situation that was developing the Premier of South Australia established a working party to try to find alternative employment in that city. The working party has carried out a considerable amount of work to try to find alternative employment opportunities. It came up with suggestions, one of which was the establishment of a national fishing fleet following the extension of our economic zone to 200 miles. Another suggestion was the establishment of a railway stock manufacturing plant at Whyalla. It is felt that this would be a logical industry to replace the shipbuilding industry because at present the 13.2 per cent of the work force unemployed in Whyalla is made up mostly of tradesmen and their assistants who cannot secure alternative employment. As I have pointed out, the South Australian Government working party has recommended the establishment of a rolling stock manufacturing plant. Of course, this is the subject of the petition. 
I certainly hope that the appropriate Ministers give the petition their attention because it is only by establishing an industry similar to the shipbuilding industry, employing the same type of labour, that the problems facing Whyalla can be overcome. I certainly hope that the Ministers will give the petition their support because it comes from citizens of Whyalla who are now facing a pretty grave situation with regard to employment in their city. 
-I think the only advice I can give to the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  is that while he is not quite sure which party in government in Victoria would do the most for him he should make sure a Labor government is returned at the next election. I am sure it would assist him with the provision of water resources to solve the problems. I have a particular interest in the whole question of water, apart from the fact that I drink it. It has been said that South Australia is the driest State in the driest continent. I have been re-elected to a redistributed seat which comprises 90.5 per cent of South Australia. I suppose I could coin a phrase that it is the driest electorate in the driest State in the driest continent. We have problems with water. I am sure that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would confirm that anyone would be hard put to find a running stream in that part of the State. 
South Australia has a particular interest in water projects. The matter is of great concern. Let us look at some of the major problems that face South Australia. The South Australian Government has prepared programs. Certainly they are very costly, but if we are to get a decent water supply in South Australia the job has to be done and done as soon as possible. Let me refer to a few projects. First of all I refer to the metropolitan Adelaide water treatment plant which is estimated to cost in the vicinity of $ 1 50m. I mention also the water treatment project for the northern towns which will cost anything from $32m to $48m. There is also the rehabilitation of the River Murray irrigation area which will cost a further $53m. The River Murray salinity control programs will cost anything from $30m to $200m. The cost of the project is a bit of a stab in the dark. The Bolivar effluent utilisation scheme will cost $22m. The figures I have given are not up to date. If we take account of the inflation rate since these figures were compiled we find that the cost is a lot more. 
South Australia cannot afford to carry out its programs on its own. One project with which I am concerned is water treatment for the northern towns- the three major towns of the northern Spencer Gulf area. With respect to the northern towns of South Australia served by the MorganWhyalla and associated water supply systems, we are aware that of the 13 cases of the fatal water-borne disease, amoebic meningitis, 12 have occurred in these towns. Although it was never proven that the water supply was involved, the facts are that not one case has been reported since the South Australian Department of Public Health called for chlorination of the supply to an extent which would ensure reasonable levels at the consumers tap. The very high chlorine dosage rates required to achieve this residual with unfiltered water make the water extremely odorous and unpalatable. The chlorine makes the water very corrosive. The water supply system as well as consumers pipes and fittings are being attacked. As a resident of the northern towns, I can confirm the truth of those remarks and the remarks relating to amoebic meningitis. Until a few years ago every summer the parents of children in the areas around Port Augusta, Port Pirie and Whyalla were concerned about the effects of amoebic meningitis. I referred earlier to the deaths which had occurred. 
South Australia has always faced a problem. Prior to the World War it was mainly a rural State. Because of the industrial development during the Second World War there was a greater demand for water. The industrial development, including the shipbuilding, et cetera, in Whyalla, stressed the need for a regular water supply for the area. As a result, the Morgan- Whyalla pipeline was opened in 1 944 to provide a regular water supply to the area. Prior to that all the towns in the northern part of the State relied on their local water supplies. Some were of very poor quality and intermittent at times. With the increased secondary industry in South Australia we saw an improvement in the situation. At the time, Adelaide relied mainly on various nearby dams for its water supply. With the expansion of Adelaide, plans were laid to transfer water from the River Murray to augment Adelaide 's water supply. 
The water from the Murray is of extremely poor quality and is not very palatable. Residents of most of the northern areas have fresh water tanks and hope that they can collect sufficient rain water from roofs for drinking purposes. The water is very sour and not of good quality at all. Prior to 1970, no serious consideration had been given to the filtration of the Adelaide water supply. But, in 1971 a report showed that it was feasible. It was decided to see whether ways and means could be found to filtrate the Adelaide water supply. 
In 1973, during a State election campaign, the question of the filtration of the Adelaide water supply became a strong election issue. As a result, in 1974 the State Government decided, after an approach the then Federal Governmentthe Australian Labor Party-Whitlam Government- to see whether any assistance could be available from it to help the South Australian Government to carry on with its program. Of course, the then Federal Government had instituted a program to assist the States with their water reticulation programs. South Australia received some assistance and promises from the then Federal Government to provide the assistance to enable it to carry out that water filtration program for Adelaide. The fact that the Federal Government was prepared to give assistance for the filtration of the Adelaide water supply meant that South Australia, through its own resources, could take the necessary steps to consider filtrated water for the three northern industrial towns in addition to rural areas and other smaller towns. 
The details of the Adelaide filtration scheme were submitted to the Federal Government following the election in 1973. The Whitlam Government undertook to fund the program in 1974. Work on the project started almost immediately following that agreement. The State Government could not proceed with the program until the Commonwealth Government agreed to provide the necessary funds. No time was wasted after the agreement was reached under which the Commonwealth would fund the program with $ 100m provided by grant and loan over a 10-year period. As a matter of fact, I think that one of the first plants to come into operation was the Hope Valley reservoir quite recently. It has been operating since last October. It is hoped that another one will come into operation during the latter part of next year. 
Despite numerous approaches to the Fraser Government, the South Australian Government still does not know what the funding situation will be next year. The South Australian Government is not able to go ahead fully with the program that it had in mind because of the lack of Federal funding. This will have a serious effect on the previously planned rate of progress for the other four filtration plants needed to serve the metropolitan area. Other approaches made by the South Australian Government to the Federal Government did not receive very sympathetic consideration.  Mr Corcoran,  the Minister of Works in South Australia, made a statement following the announcement by the Prime Minister during the Federal election campaign that a sum of $200m would be made available for water resources programs. The Prime Minister stated in his policy speech. 
We will improve city and country water supplies with a five year $200m national water resources program. 

 Mr Corcoran, in commenting on the Prime Minister's announcement, had this to say in a Press statement: . . . on the surface this seemed to be a generous commitment. 
But deeper analysis shows that instead of being a giver  Mr Fraser  is a taker . . . 
The $200m equated to $40m a year over the next five years for all the States. 
Where is the generosity in this intention when the expenditure on water resources activities last financial year was $77m? 
Honourable members can see that there has been a considerable drop in expenditure. The Press statement continues: 
The reduction of $37m is bad enough in itself but when the cost of inflation is added to that amount the fall in funding is drastic. 
If allocations are made in line with population it will mean that South Australia's share will be about $4m- a veritable drop in the bucket. 
I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to consider that in the light of the program I read out earlier.  Mr Corcoran  went on to say: 
South Australia had received $ 13.5m from the Commonwealth Government for water resources activities last financial year. 
South Australia's position is quite clear. Every year we need to be compensated in full for the cost of inflation just to maintain our existing activities- with no increase in activities allowed for. 
Instead of that, under this seemingly generous program, we will get no compensation for inflation, and we will lose an additional $10m a year compared with what we received in 1976-77. 

 Mr Fraser's intentions are obvious; pick out a nice round figure like $200m; it sounds good and spread it over a number of years which he hopes the public won't remember anyway. 
We still have no commitment from the Fraser Government beyond next financial year for Adelaide's Water Filtration Program. 
One of the unfortunate aspects of the whole issue is that the scheme included a job creation program. If those funds were made available, work could have been provided for an additional 750 men. But, of course, the State will not get the money. The amount provided by the Federal Government is nowhere near what the State Government is seeking. The result is that the programs set out by the South Australian Government will not get off the ground fully and certainly will not be completed before the turn of the century. This will be the case if the work must be done from the poor handouts that the South Australian Government is receiving from the Federal Government and from what the State is able to pay for from its own resources. 
As I said earlier, I have a special interest in the water supply for the northern industrial towns. When the Labor Government made provision to assist South Australia, it raised the possibility of making available a water filtration scheme for the towns in the northern Spencer Gulf area. With the cut back in funds and the prospect that there will not be a great deal of money available in the future, this scheme drops further and further into the background. It will be quite some time before we have filtrated water in the northern part of South Australia. 
The whole matter has caused some concern. It is causing a great deal of concern to the local government bodies in the area. The Spencer Gulf Cities Association, an Association of the councils around the Spencer Gulf area, met and discussed the question of the filtration of water. It has been raised on many occasions but it was raised again on this occasion. I am afraid that the hopes of the councils have been dashed by the miserly amount that has been included in this program- an amount of $200m to be spread between all the States over a period of five years. So the possibility of filtrated water being made available in the northern part of South Australia has been put back by the actions of this Federal Government in refusing to fund the State Government more than it has in the provision of water resources. It is obvious that only with the return of a Labor Government which is concerned more for the people will we see greater resources put into this area so that these projects can go ahead. 
I feel that South Australia deserves a great deal of consideration. It is the driest State in the driest continent and as such South Australia has greater problems in respect to water than have most of the other States. I have mentioned that it is possible to travel by rail from the Victorian border to the Western Australian border with the River Murray being the only running water to be crossed. That gives honourable members an idea of the position of South Australia in regard to its water resources. South Australia is also the State hardest hit with salinity problems in the River Murray. However, I do not intend to develop that matter. I think that my friend, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick),  has spoken on that matter previously and covered it quite adequately. But it is a fact that South Australia is probably the hardest hit of the riparian States in respect to the Murray River water and its salinity. 
I am sure that the South Australian Government will play its part. It has quite large projects under way. But unfortunately, it will not be able to fund them fully out of its own resources. Although the State will play its part and put in its share of resources to carry out these programs, it cannot carry them out until the Federal Government comes to the party. South Australia, because of its geographical position, its rainfall and lack of rivers deserves special consideration from the Commonwealth Government. It certainly deserves greater consideration for assistance from the Commonwealth Government to provide the finance needed to carry out these projects. The commitment of the Labor Government allowed for the supply of nitrated water to the towns I have mentioned in the northern Spencer Gulf area to be considered in the near future. Unfortunately, the amount that the present Federal Government is providing will mean that South Australia will receive about $4m a year and those plans have dropped further and further into the background. I make a final appeal to this Federal Government to change its views on the allocation of money to assist the States in water resources. It should make further money available so that South Australia can proceed to ensure that it has decent and adequate water supplies. 
-The matter I want to raise tonight deals with the compensation legislation applying to Commonwealth employees. I am not concerned so much with short term recipients of Commonwealth compensation as for the long term recipients, those who are off work for over six months. Those who are off work for up to six months receive full pay but after six months their compensation drops to a level far below their normal wage. This whole business has a pretty sorry history over the last few years. During the term of the Labor Government comprehensive new legislation was introduced to cover Commonwealth employees, something that was more comparative with up to date State Acts. Unfortunately at that time the Labor Government did not control the Senate and that legislation did not get past the Senate. In 1975 legislation was introduced quickly to update the payments. At that time the payments were $57 per week for the injured person, so much for his wife and so much for any children. With the sacking of the Whitlam Government by  Sir John  Kerr this legislation became a casualty. It meant that those people who had to exist at that time on what was a miserably low level had to wait until October 1976 before they received any increase. In October 1976 the present Government updated the payments to, I think, $80 per week for the injured person, $2 1 for his wife and $10 for each child. The figures have remained at that level since October 1 976. 
During that period we have seen inflation running at between 15 per cent to 18 per cent so that the amount which was granted then has been eroded considerably since. I suggest that this matter must be looked into by the present Government. These people are its employees. Most of the employees who are in receipt of this long term compensation, those who are suffering injuries which put them off work for over six months, are wages employees. The cases with which I come into contact are Telecom employees, Australia Post employees and, largely, Australian National Railways employees. In the latter case, they are mostly fettlers who work along the east-west and north-south railway lines. In most cases they have back injuries and that, in itself, is an extra burden for these people to carry. I am sure that all honourable members would agree that they are entitled to more consideration. 
I urge the Government to look sympathetically at this whole question of compensation to long term recipients of Commonwealth compensation to see whether the figures cannot be updated to what is a more realistic amount. If we compare the present amount with the amount payable in the States, particularly my own State of South Australia, we see that the Commonwealth Act is far below what is available under State Acts. Any examination of the rates shows just how bad the Commonwealth rate is. I could cite other examples of how the present Act operates against the best interests of employees. This whole matter shows the lack of a sympathetic approach to this particular problem. 
One of the features which I feel should be considered in any new legislation to cover Commonwealth employees, even if it is only a question of updating the figures, is the matter of weekly payments. At the present time the weekly payments are $80 for the injured person, $2 1 for his wife and $ 10 for each child. To a man with, say a wife and two children, that means $ 12 1 a week. It is a little bit of an imposition to ask a tradesman or an engine driver or a fettler, all of whom earn above that amount, to live on that amount. I do ask that these figures be indexed in any future legislation so that if there is any movement in wages the amount of the compensation will move accordingly. I suggest that the amount of compensation should be raised to a reasonable figure and indexed so that when wages move the amount of compensation moves also. I ask that because pensions are indexed and Commonwealth superannuation is indexed. I therefore ask that compensation payments to long term recipients of Commonwealth compensation, after they are increased to a reasonable and decent amount, also have the benefit of indexation. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware of a statement released in Alice Springs by his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry during the recent election campaign in reference to the Stuart Highway, which read: 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder, M P., and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff  I believe it is necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the national program and for allocation at their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to upgrade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
In view of the Minister's reported attitude that it is not the policy of the Government to provide grants for specific road works outside the normal funding arrangements, do the views of the Minister for Primary Industry conflict with his own views on the funding of the Stuart Highway reconstruction? What is the real situation regarding the Stuart Highway? 

 -Firstly, Mr Deputy Speaker, I congratulate you on again being appointed a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. I would like you to convey to the  Chairman  of Committees and to the  Speaker  my congratulations upon their attainment of their high offices. I also congratulate the new honourable members who were elected to this House last December. The new honourable members on this side of the House have made a great contribution to the Parliament already and I am sure they will be a great adjunct to the Opposition and a thorn in the side of the Government. 
I also convey my thanks to the people of the electorate of Grey for returning me to this place. It was not a very easy job. As honourable members know, there was a redistribution of the boundaries of the electorate. All the predictions were that the redistribution of the seat of Grey had changed it from being a marginal Labor seat to a marginal Liberal seat. I needed to increase my vote by 3 per cent to hold the seat. I was able to do that. Despite the predictions by the commentators on polling night, I was able to battle it out and return to this place again. Despite the changing of the boundaries of the electorate I was successful. Despite the fact that there was a very large election campaign in which money seemed to be no object to both the Liberal Party of Australia candidate and the National Country Party candidate, I was successful. The other candidates were able to spend money in the campaign that I had no possible hope of matching. I reflect on the comments that have been made here on a number of occasions about the Australian Labor Party suffering a crushing defeat. It is good to look at the figures. The Liberal Party can rule in this House in its own right at the present time. It received 39 per cent of the votes. The Labor Party, which received more of the overall percentage of the votes, has only 38 seats. Honourable members can see that there are some faults in our electoral system. 
I refer to the Governor-General's Speech, which is an outline of the Government's policy for the next three years. I do not mean this as any reflection on the Governor-General himself, but one wonders what those promises in that Speech will mean and how many of them will be broken. We have to go back only to the promises made during the 1975 general election campaign and to events since then to find out how many promises were broken subsequently. For example, it was promised that Medibank would not be interfered with. That has been emasculated and could be emasculated even further. Similarly, indexation was to be maintained, but it has just about been emasculated; home mortgage as a tax deduction was to remain but that, too, has been emasculated and now applies only to the first five years of the mortgage. As I said, one wonders how many promises contained in the GovernorGeneral 's Speech will be broken by this Government in the years to come. 
At the present time the Grey electorate faces a number of pretty severe problems. I know that many of those problems such as youth unemployment are similar to those found in other electorates. Two problems stand out. One is the drought that has hit the rural areas. This is the third year in a row in which most of the Eyre Peninsula has been affected by drought. Those areas that have not been affected by drought have been affected by problems of rust and other things. Generally speaking, this is the third bad year, with possibly only about 20 per cent of the area producing much at all. The second main problem that has arisen during the last few months is the closure of the Whyalla shipyards. I shall elaborate on that problem a little later. 
Getting back to the problems of the people in the rural areas, because of the low rainfall during the last three years, many of the farmers, particularly the younger farmers, and the people who do not have reserves behind them are almost at the end of their tether. I have spoken to quite a few of those people. In one town I spoke to three people who said to me: 'Well, this is our third bad year. We have a bill for superphosphate to pay and we have a bill for fuel to pay. We haven't got the money to pay them. What will happen to us?' We know of the Government's proposal to introduce the Australian Rural Bank. I am afraid that this bank will not be able to help many of those people because many of them have reached the limit of their borrowing capacity and to borrow further would put them only deeper in debt. So one wonders what the future will hold for these people in the areas where the drought has had the greatest effect. We know that the Federal and State governments are providing some assistance to these areas. Whilst it will not solve all the problems, it will provide some assistance. 
A few weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  expressed a desire to look at some of the drought areas. I had the pleasure of accompanying him to parts of Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. He had a good look at the situation. He was able to speak to quite a number of the farmers in the area. They were quite pleased that he should come to see them and their problems first hand. I think the Leader of the Opposition came away fully cognisant of what the problem really was. In many areas the land is like a desert. The topsoil has been blown away, and sand drifts across the road. It will certainly take many years to recover, even with good seasons. I do not claim to have all the solutions. I suppose the solutions are in the hands of the Almighty. I am afraid that unless solutions are found soon, many of these farmers will go to the wall. 
As I said, the second major problem that faces the Grey electorate results from the closure of the Whyalla shipyard. It is felt in Whyalla that the Federal Government has completely ignored the people's problems. The Government ignored the people of Whyalla when it was suggested that a system could be implemented to keep the shipyards going. There was a lack of answers to questions asked by the South Australian Premier, by the City Council of Whyalla, by the various organisations in Whyalla and by me. Promises were made by the then Minister for Industry and 
Commerce,  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton, that he would go to Whyalla and look at the problems. That promise was never carried out. It has been the subject of some adverse comment by the Mayor of the Whyalla City Council as to what the Government intends to do. The Government has made promises which it has never carried out. It could have sent someone to Whyalla to look at the problems to see whether it could come up with something which would assist in some way. 
Last July Liberal and Labor senators met in Whyalla with the local council. They made certain pledges that they would support the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the retention of both Whyalla and Newcastle as shipbuilding centres. The Liberal senators, when given the opportunity in the Senate to back what they had said in Whyalla, not only supported the gagging of the debate, but also voted against the idea which they had supported in Whyalla. Quite recently a public meeting was called in Whyalla by the local Community Council for Social Development. Senators from both major parties were invited to Whyalla to discuss the problems. The result was that three Labor senators turned up for the meeting, but no Liberal senators at all were present. So we can understand why the people of Whyalla are a bit disillusioned by this particular Government. 
At the present time more than 13 per cent of the work force of Whyalla is unemployed. With the completion of the work in the shipyards at the moment- only the fitting out of the last ship remains to be carried out- that percentage of unemployed will increase. It is quite obvious that the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd cannot absorb all the unemployed people as it earlier said it could. Previously it was able to employ many people in the steelworks, but  with  the downturn in the steel industry and the lack of orders being placed, this has not been possible. So we have that problem. 
I mention one other matter. During the time in which I have been the member for Grey, when I have been approached by constituents I have never tried to be party political in the sense that I asked a person his political affiliations. I hope that because I have not done so I have been able to gain the respect of many of the people in my electorate. I find the attitude of some Ministerscertainly not all, but at least some- very petty in regard to the way in which they treat members of the Opposition. Any member who represents a large electorate has problems, just by reason of the electorate's size. When Ministers withhold information that makes the situation even worse. I have found, in regard to many matters I have taken up concerning my electorate, that the information gets to the Press through a senator. I can cite one case where the information got to the Press by way of a State Liberal member. I feel that this is an affront to the local member who does most of the work in the electorate. Such a thing should not be allowed to happen. 
I cite the case of the provision of television services to the Eyre Peninsula. I have raised the matter on numerous occasions in this House by way of question, I have spoken about it in various debates and I have presented petitions in this regard. At no time can I ever remember receiving any answer from the previous Minister for Post and Telecommunications to my approaches on this question. About a fortnight before the general election, I was informed that the Government had released its program concerning the extension of television services to country areas. It was only by sheer luck that I found out such information had been issued, because no information had ever been sent to me. When I took up the matter with the Minister's office, I was told that something had been issued and that they would post it to me. I said: 'Why post it to me because as far as I know all the other country members who were concerned about the proposal to extend television services have been informed by telegram or telex'. About five days later I received from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a letter which was undated, which bore no address and which was unsigned. It included the Government's proposals and an attachment which showed the proposed extension of television facilities in the electorate of Grey. When I looked at the areas which were to receive the additional services, I found that Eyre Peninsula, the area I had been pushing the hardest, had been ignored. Naturally I issued a Press statement condemning the Government for ignoring that area. Incidentally, I was pretty upset that I had not been informed, and I told the Press Secretary of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that I was not too happy about the whole matter. Ten days prior to the election there was an announcement that a mistake had been made. Somehow it was omitted from the statement that there were proposals to provide Eyre Peninsula with television. Last November or early December,  Senator Jessop  from South Australia and the then Liberal candidate for Grey made an announcement that television would be provided to that area within 12 months. I felt that it was a case of a Minister or the senator telling a deliberate untruth in order to try to save the Liberal candidate from the political backwash resulting from not providing a television service to that area. That is how the situation finished up, as was demonstrated on election day. 
I approached the present Minister and, from what the Minister told me, it was apparent that the statement that television services would be provided within 12 months was issued for purely political purposes because it was proved to be completely wrong. The Minister stated that the Government had drawn up a draft program which covered the period to 1981. When I refer to a draft program, I mean that it had yet to be approved by Cabinet. This is the way in which this matter of gaining information from the Minister about the provision of television services has gone on. I trust that the present Minister will treat Opposition members from large electorates in a less party political manner than did his predecessor, and I trust that he will at least have the courtesy to reply to the approaches made on behalf of the constituents of those members who represent large electorates, to whatever political party they belong. 
I wish now to raise a few matters related to social security. One of them is concerned with the tight guidelines which apply in relation to the payment of the unemployment benefit. Some particular cases came to my attention in Whyalla. People who were out of work and receiving the unemployment benefit decided to use a small plot of land which they owned to try market gardening. From the moment they turned their first sod they lost their unemployment benefit. I feel that that action was a little harsh. I have taken up this matter with the Department. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has already drawn its attention to a similar case in Victoria. I believe that the case referred to in his electorate was used as an example in giving a reason why those people could not be paid the unemployment benefit. However, I feel it is unjust that, when people take initiatives to try to earn some money and try to become productive, from the moment they turn their first sod of soil they lose their unemployment benefit. I feel that they are paying a penalty for initiative. 
One other matter at which I would like the Government to have a close look is the cut off point at which pensioners are no longer eligible for fringe benefits. Fringe benefits payable to pensioners have amounted to $34 for a single person and $57.50 for a married couple. As the years go by and because of the effects of inflation, more and more people who have a small private income other than their pension are moving above the cut out point and are losing their fringe benefits. I feel that the amount of benefit has remained at a static point for far too long. It is about time the figure was raised so that such people are not disadvantaged as they are now. Many of the people who have complained to me are old people. Many of them are Commonwealth superannuation pensioners who made their superannuation contributions when wages were much lower than they are at present. Ever since the Labor Government introduced indexation of superannuation pensions, more and more of these people have moved above the cut out point each year and have lost their fringe benefits. I trust that that matter will be given attention by the Minister. 
Another matter I wish to raise concerns the application of the means test to the earnings of pensioners. For a very long time the amount of extra earnings for a pensioner has remained at $20 for a single person and $34 for a married couple. I am not quite sure when those figures were last adjusted, but they are completely ridiculous in this day and age, particularly when one looks at today's money values. The amount of extra income a pensioner is allowed to earn should be adjusted according to the cost of living index in the same way as the pension is adjusted. Twenty years ago one probably had to work 10 or 15 hours to earn $20. Nowadays, with wages at the levels they are, one could probably earn that $20 by doing four or five hours work. So the present situation certainly does not encourage pensioners to try to get themselves off the bottom rung by earning extra money because, when they do so, they lose part of their pension when they reach that cut out point of $20 for a single person and $34 for a married couple. 
A widow came to see me last week. She is now living on her own, but she has reared five children who are now grown up. She has worked hard to raise those children. Now that they are grown up she is on her own and she feels that she would like to enjoy life a little, probably by taking tours around the country. The moment that she earns $20, which she can do in a few hours, she finds that her pension is reduced. I trust that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will give consideration to this matter also with a view to upgrading the point at which pension payments begin to diminish. 
The final matter I wish to mention concerns the abuse in some areas of the scheme which provides subsidies to employers who take on young people. Two cases have been brought to my attention in which the employer has taken on a young person and, at the conclusion of six months, has sacked that person for no reason and has immediately gone along to the Commonwealth Employment Service and taken on another person. Such employers are subsidised to the extent of $57 a week for taking on these young people. It is outright exploitation of the scheme which is supposed to be assisting young people to obtain employment, but all it is to some unscrupulous employers is a scheme under which they can get cheap labour. 
I have been approached by a particular union which has drawn my attention to cases similar to those I have just mentioned. I believe that this matter deserves closer examination. I have discussed the matter with the Commonwealth Employment Service. I have been told that the Service is pretty vigilant. However, I was told by its officers that they feel that some unscrupulous employers are abusing that scheme. If that is the case, I think the situation needs to be watched more closely. Although I feel that some of the schemes which the Government has established to assist young people have only a cosmetic effect, this scheme may have some merit. It certainly should not be abused in the manner that it is by some unscrupulous employers. 
-Whilst honourable members on this side of the House do not oppose this Bill there are a few comments which I would like to make. The Bill makes provision for protecting the rights of former South Australian Railways employees who are transferred to the Australian National Railways Commission. The word 'takeover' has been used on many occasions, but I think the word 'amalgamation ' is a much better word because the agreement between the South Australian Government and the Australian Government in respect of that State's non-metropolitan railway services was reached freely. The main provisions in this Bill relate to the superannuation and compensation rights of former South Australian Railways employees. In respect of compensation and superannuation, I am glad that the Bill allows transferred employees to choose the system that is more favourable to them. The Commonwealth compensation and superannuation schemes are different from the State schemes. I am sure that there are advantages and disadvantages in both of them. They are mixed bags. It is logical that the employee should be allowed to select which scheme to join. I think that the employee will feel much more satisfied once he makes the choice himself, because the choice is his. I am sure that this will help to overcome some of the difficulties that will occur with the amalgamation. Another matter to which I wish to refer later is the long service leave provision which is mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I will refer to that aspect at the Committee stage of the Bill. 
I trust that the Minister will consider any other anomalies that arise in the Bill. I do not think all the problems have been overcome. I know, from discussions with union officials of employees of the Australian National Railways, that quite a number of anomalies still exist. These may finish up in arbitration. They are causing some concern to blue collar workers and to white collar workers. I have spoken to members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen, the Australian Workers Union and other unions and found that they are still concerned about a number of matters. The matters that have been mentioned to me include the possible loss of conditions, such as the away from home allowance and effects on lines of promotion. These matters are causing concern to a number of the unionists involved. They fear that, with the amalgamation, their conditions will be eroded. I trust that when these anomalies surface they will be given consideration and fair treatment by the Government. 
There is concern that the amalgamation of the South Australian country lines with the former Commonwealth Railways, which is now the Australian National Railways, will be felt in three major towns in the northern part of South Australia. I refer to Peterborough, Port Augusta and Port Pirie, all of which can be considered railway towns. Port Augusta was the operational headquarters of the old Commonwealth Railways. With the main industry in that town being the railways, any change to the railways can have quite serious effects on the town. Recently discussions were held between  Mr Dyason,  the General Manager of the Australian National Railways, the Town Council, the local member of State Parliament and myself about the possible effect of the amalgamation on Port Augusta.  Mr Dyason  was able to give us some assurances that the effect would be minimal. Most of the concern seems to be amongst the white collar staff of the Australian National Railways about what will happen to them, with the headquarters being established in Adelaide. They are wondering whether they will be transferred to Adelaide and what the future holds for them. Certain assurances were given by the general manager. We hope that the assurances will be honoured and will allay the fears of many of the white collar workers involved. 
Port Augusta is the headquarters of the old Commonwealth Railways. Possibly two-thirds of the work force there is employed in the railways. The railways have always played an extremely important part in that town. In the former days the City Council of Port Augusta received some assistance from the Commonwealth Railways. I can remember one area of assistance, where the Commonwealth Railways paid for the watering of the main oval in the town and in that way assisted the local government. With the widening of the responsibilities of the Australian National Railways that can no longer apply. When the town contained the operational headquarters of the Commonwealth Railways something could be fed into it. Many other towns are now serviced by the Australian National Railways and will become Australian National Railways towns. Of course, what happens in one town can be applied to other towns. 
This brings me to the Government's policy on the payment of rates. When assistance was formerly available the question of the payment of rates by government instrumentalities was not as important as it is today. Now that those other areas of assistance are gone Port Augusta receives very little by way of assistance from the Australian National Railways, other than an ex gratia payment to the tune of $3 7,000 last year in lieu of the payment of rates. Anybody who knows Port Augusta- as I am sure the Minister does- will realise that the Australian National Railways owns the land for about six kilometres around the foreshores of Port Augusta. Of course, this land is not ratable. The only amount paid is the ex gratia payment which, as I mentioned earlier, amounted to $37,000 last year. This payment covers the Australian National Railways properties that front council properties. This is not a great contribution to a town in which the Australian National Railways is the major industry. There is no contribution by the Government other than the ex gratia payment. 
One other matter which concerns the local council is the question of railway business enterprises. We know that the railways are a business enterprise. One of the reasons for setting up the Australian National Railways Commission was to see that the railways were run as a more efficient business enterprise. The ANR runs business enterprises in the town in opposition to local private enterprise. I refer of course to the main one, the Ausrail provisions store which sells all types of goods. It mainly serves people along the line but also serves people in Port Augusta and people who are not strictly railway employees. It is a commercial enterprise outside the council boundaries which does not pay rates although it is in direct competition with people who have to pay rates. Approaches in the past on this issue have been unsuccessful. 
Whilst I realise the need for the present government policy on rates, I feel that the circumstances are such that a different approach should be taken in this case. It is not as though the Government is not paying rates on an office block; it is not paying rates on a considerable portion of a city in which it holds most of the prime land. I think the case deserves some consideration when one realises that the city provides most of the amenities which are used by the ANR employees. I feel the city can be assisted by the Government looking at the commercial enterprises which the ANR runs in competition with people who have to pay rates. I trust that the Minister will raise this matter with his colleague the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers). 
I refer now to the operation of the railways. Inquiries were set up regarding two country lines in the northern part of South Australia- the Peterborough to Quorn line and the Gladstone to Wilmington line. Both these lines have been the subject of an investigation by a committee. To date we have heard nothing of what is to happen. There is concern in the area as to what the future holds, whether these lines will be kept going or whether the committee will recommend their closure. Any decision will have some effect in the area. We hope that the Minister will release the report as soon as possible in order to allay the fears that exist in that area. 
I refer to a few other matters. Mention has been made of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line. Since construction started in April 1975 it has progressed at a good pace. It is now well north of Coober Pedy. I have had the opportunity of travelling along the line and seeing the standard of workmanship. I would say that probably it is the best stretch of railway track that has ever been laid in Australia. It is a credit to the people who initially decided to go ahead with that long-needed rail link with the Northern Territory. The last matter I wish to mention is the concern that is being felt in Port Pirie as to its situation as a railway centre. We have noted a number of reports concerning what will happen about joining Adelaide to the standard guauge railway system, '''here have been four or five reports on the subject, but at present the whole matter is still up in the air. I think the people of Port Pirie deserve to be told what the future holds in regard to their situation as a railway town. 
I wish to refer to clause 5 in the Bill. It refers to the operation of the Commonwealth Railways by-laws. It was mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech. Proposed section 52a ( 1 ) states: 
. the provisions of By-Law No. 70 for the granting of long service leave or pay in lieu of long service leave applied, immediately before I March 1978, to an employee; and ... the employee had been employed under this Act immediately before 7 October 1 944. 
Until that date the long service leave conditions of wage employees of Commonwealth Railways were covered by a by-law. In 1944 the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act was introduced. For some reason the Commonwealth Railways, in enumerating the conditions in its advertisements, did not state that the conditions came under the Furlough Act; it repeated that they came under the by-law. There were certain advantages under the by-law because employees received long service leave after 10 years' service, whereas under the Furlough Act they had to work for 15 years before they were entitled to furlough. In early 1951, when this fact was discovered, an arrangement was reached between the unions and the then Minister that the year in the provision of the by-law would be changed from 1944 to 1951 and furlough would be excluded. In the early 1960s an employee who joined between 1944 and 1951 received legal advice and found that he would be paid according to the Furlough Act. At that time the furlough was to his advantage. This matter was then taken up with the railways. The railways obtained legal advice and it was agreed that, because of the advertisements, the railways would find themselves in an awkward position if that employee continued his claim along those lines. As a result of the discussions which took place between the unions and the management at that time, it was arranged with the Treasurer that by administrative arrangement any employee who joined between 7 October 1944 and 1951 would have the right to choose whether he wished his long service leave under the Furlough Act or the by-law. He could choose whichever was to his advantage. That was done by administrative action and I would like to raise this point with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  The Bill provides for an employee who was employed under this Act immediately before 7 October 1 944. Can the Minister assure the House that the administrative arrangements which applied previously will apply in future? 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 28 February 1 978: 
When can it be anticipated that the contributors to the former Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme will receive their share of the surplus existing at the time of the changeover to the new scheme. 
I remind the Prime Minister of his statement to this House last week that an independent assessor would consider new tenders for a computer for the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Trade and Resources. Has the Government yet appointed this independent assessor? If so, what is the assessor's identity and background? Will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to refute a report circulating in the computer industry that the assessor is a former employee of IBM Australia Ltd? 
I support some of the remarks of the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  regarding the differences in petrol prices between country areas and city areas. There certainly is a great difference and what the honourable member for Barker has said is quite true. I hope, however, that he will support the Opposition's amendment because the amendment goes further than the proposed legislation. The amendment refers to the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. Many of the matters raised by the honourable member for Barker are explained pretty fully in the Royal Commission's report. The Royal Commission went into the matter quite competently. In his second reading speech the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said: - 
The proposed scheme will subsidise country freight differentials to the extent that country consumers of products covered by the scheme will pay a price which includes no more than 4c per gallon of the transport costs. 
I think it is very important to remember that the subsidy applies only to the 4c a gallon of the transport costs. The Opposition has moved an amendment because we feel that the legislation does not go far enough. We are not opposing the legislation because we realise that the question of petrol prices in country areas at present is a big problem. We certainly do not oppose the general content of the legislation in that it does bring some relief to some country people. The amendment also refers to the fact that the Government has remained silent on the defects of the system as outlined in the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. I feel that the amendment deserves the full support of this 
House and I certainly hope that it gets that support. 
All we have heard from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about trying to overcome these problems is his appeal to the retailers to play a fair game as regards petrol prices. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  made mention of this fact. I am sure that if the Government had really looked at the report of the Royal Commission it would have seen the way out of the problem. It is up to the Government to act. 
As was mentioned by the honourable member for Barker, many areas will receive no subsidy whatsoever. At a later stage I shall elaborate on some of the areas that will not receive assistance. It is admitted that in the more remote areas there will be some assistance. I can cite many areas in my electorate that will be assisted by this subsidy. It will certainly lighten the load that people in such areas had to carry because of petrol prices. 
Another matter mentioned in the amendment concerns the equalisation of petrol prices. During the general election campaign, the word 'equalisation' was thrown around quite often. The Prime Minister originally used the phrase 'equalisation of petrol prices'. This scheme certainly does not equalise petrol prices; it goes nowhere near to doing so. All it does is give some subsidy on the transport costs of getting petrol to country areas. That the Government is not bringing in a full fuel equalisation scheme is another broken promise of the Prime Minister. If we refer back to the last Parliament we find quite a number of broken promises. 
Recently I attended a local government conference at which two main items were discussed. In both cases they concerned broken promises by this Government. One of them related to the provision of television services in rural areas. The Government had promised television reception in those areas within 12 months but of course when the election was over that was found to be an empty promise. The people will have to wait for much longer than 12 months. The other item, which was submitted by quite a number of constituent councils of this association, was the question of fuel equalisation. Like everybody else, the councils had read the statement that the Government would introduce a fuel equalisation scheme. Of course, items on the agenda referred to the Prime Minister's statement regarding that scheme. It is obvious that those people will not be satisfied with this particular scheme. 
Another matter that stands out in the legislation I am sure that the honourable member for Barker will agree with me- is that none of the major country towns receives any assistance. Among the towns in my electorate which will receive no assistance are Burra, Cleve, Cummins, Lock, Peterborough, Port Augusta, Port Lincoln, Quorn and Whyalla. A large number of the smaller towns also will receive no subsidy. It is quite interesting to note that there is a State National Country Party member in my electorate of Grey. He has what is a reasonably large state country electorate. But no areas in his electorate, with the exception of possibly one or two, will gain any subsidy whatsoever. In Kimba, in the far north-western corner of his electorate, the subsidy will amount to 0.2c a litre or about 8.5c a gallon. Honourable members can see how much assistance that will be for that National Country Party member. I am sure that he will be greatly disappointed that the scheme applies in a limited way only.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of the subsidies payable per litre on motor spirit in each State. 
Leave granted. 

 The list read as follows- 

SUBSIDY PAYABLE PER LITRE ON MOTOR SPIRIT 
New South Wales 
No subsidy- Bathurst, Bellbird, Berrima, Bowral, Canberra, Cessnock, Coolangatta, Eden, Eureka, Goulburn, Lismore, Lithgow, Nowra, Ruthven, Singleton, Swansea, Taree and Tharwa. 0.1 to 0.5- Adaminaby 0.3, Albury 0.1, Araluen 0.4, Batemans Bay 0.3, Bombala 0.5, Bredbo 0.2, Braidwood 0.4, Broken Hill 0.4, Casino 0.1, Coffs Harbour 0.2, Cowra 0.3, Glen Innes 0.3, Grafton 0.3, Gunnedah 0. 1 , Hay 0.4, Inverell 0.5, Cootamundra 0.5, Kew 0.1, Moruya 0.3, Mudgee 0.3, Narrabri 0.4, Narranderra 0.5, Nimmitabel 0.2, Orange 0. 1, Tamworth 0.2, Wagga 0.5, Yass 0.2 and Young 0.5. 0.6 to 1-Balranald 0.6, Booligal 0.4, Condobolin 1.0, Dubbo 0.6, Gilgandra 0.9, Junee 0.7, Leeton 0.6, Parkes 0.7 and Walgett 0.9. 
Above 1- Bourke 1.3, Cobar 1.2, Minindee 1.5 and Wilcannia 2.0. 
Victoria 
No subsidy- Ballarat, Bendigo, Buninyong, Coban, Colac, Fernhill, Gelnarmeston, Horsham, Port Fairy, Tallarook, Terang, Timboon, Warrnambool, Yarra. 0.1- Ardmona, Arnold, Benalla, Boon, Cobram, Dookie, Dimboola, Echuca, Glenorchy, Jeparit, Kaniva, Kyabram, Milawa, Nhill, Rochester, Rutherglen Shepparton, Stawell, Wodonga and Yackandandah. 0.2 to 0.9-Beulah 0.5, Corryong 0.8, Irymple 0.6, Kerang 0.5, Lakes Entrance 0.3, Merbein 0.6, Mildura 0.6, Orbost 0.3, Ouyen 0.6, Swan Hill 0.3 and Walpeup 0.6. 1.0 and above- Matlock 1.0 and Omeo 1.3. 
Queensland 
No subsidy- Ambrose, Ayr, Bundaberg, Cairns, Childers, Eton, Gatton, Halifax, Ingham, Innisfail, Lucinda, Mackay, Maryborough, Mia Mia, Nambour, Rockhampton, Sarina, Townsville, Victoria, Weipa and Yeppoon. 
1 to 0.5-Clare 0.5, Esk 0. 1 , Goondiwindi 0.5, Goonvella 0.5, Herberton 0.1, Killarney 0.4, Maroochydore 0.1, Ml Morgan 0.2, Nebo 0.1, Noosa 0.4, Toowoomba 0.3, Tully 0.2 and Warwick 0.4. 0.6 to 1.0- Bowen 0.9, Brigalow 1.0, Charters Towers 0.7, Dalby 0.6, Gympie 0.7, Pampas 0.9 and Proserpine 0.6. 
Above 1- aramac 3.9, Barcaldine 2.7, Blair Athol 1.5, Charleville 2.6, Cooktown 1.2, Cunnamulla 2.7, Eidsvold 1- Andamooka 1.2, Kingaroy 1.2, Longreach 2.7, Mt Isa 2.8, Normanton 3.6, Roma 1.4, Springsure 1.9 and Winton 2.4. 
South Australia 
No subsidy- Ardrossan, Bern, Bordertown, Burra, Cleve, Chowilla, Clare, Cummins, Gluyas, Jervois, Kapunda, Kingston SE, Lock, Loxton, Mallett, Moonta, Millicent, Mt Gambier, Naracoorte, Penola, Peterborough, Pinnaroo, Port Augusta, Port Lincoln, Quorn, Renmark, Struan, Tailem Bend, Victor Harbour, Waikerie, Wallaroo, Whyalla and Yamba. 0.1 to 0.5-Cradock 0.1, Hawker 0.2, Iron Knob 0.3, Kimba 0.2, Robe 0.2, Streaky Bay 0.4, Wannamunna 0.2, Wolseley 0.2 and Yunta 0.3. 0.6 to 1.0-Ceduna 0.8, Glenorchy 0.8, Leigh Creek 0.8, Thevenard 0.8 and Tarcoola 1 .0. 
Above 1- Andamooka 1.5, Oodnadatta 1.5 and Penong 1.1. 
The honourable member for Barker also spoke about the difference in petrol prices. I fully agree with the points he made. He mentioned that in Adelaide petrol is 15.7c a litre. I purchased petrol in Adelaide the week before last and paid 15.4c a litre. In the north of Spencer Gulf area, people are paying in excess of 2 lc a litre- that is an area which will be receiving no subsidy. However, those differentials will still apply. In the West, for example, at Ceduna in the far west of South Australia, the price rises to as much as 23c-plus a litre. Of course it will receive a small subsidy- 0.8c a litre or about 3Vic a gallon. But this will not mean a great deal. It will still leave the prices at Ceduna, even with that subsidy, far and above the Adelaide prices. As I have mentioned, it is certainly nowhere near what could be called 'price equalisation' of petrol price. 
In referring to the differences in prices, one notices that the question of discounting petrol prices does not come into the legislation at all. Until such time as these matters are taken into account, I do not consider that we can talk about any equalisation of prices. In many cases I strongly believe that the country dweller is in some way subsidising the cheap petrol prices paid in the cities. As I have said, the people in Ceduna pay 23c a litre while the people in Adelaide pay just over 15c a litre. The difference  is about 8c a litre, which means a difference of 32c to 34c a gallon between Ceduna prices and Adelaide prices. This scheme, of course, is very limited in its application. Although it will assist many areas, it will certainly be a disappointment to the very many people who expected to see some sort of decent scheme which would reduce their petrol prices. 
I again refer to the amendment because the amendment refers to the Royal Commission on Petroleum. That Royal Commission made very many recommendations. Unfortunately, it does not appear that the Government is prepared to act on the recommendations and information contained in the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. I think the report gives a pretty detailed study of the industry. It points out the factors in the industry that are hidden and explains why there are differentials in the price of fuel. The terms of reference of the Commission read, inter alia: . . . the Commission is required to inquire into and report upon: 
whether the prices of such fuels and other by-products are excessive and the extent to which the marketing, management and trading practices, proliferation of service stations and other retail outlets, and the granting of secret or other discounts, and the maintenance of a multi-tiered price structure by refiners and wholesalers of such fuels, are contributing thereto; 
whether, and if so, to what extent, the policies and objectives of any of the refiners or wholesalers of such fuels have contributed to price-cutting wars in any one retail sector to the detriment of any other sectors; and 
to what extent fuel pricing by companies operating in Australia which are subsidiaries of foreign corporations has been influenced or determined by the decisions of their overseas principals in such matters as inflating original prices paid to overseas crude oil producers and shipping freight thereon thus creating an artificially high landed price to the detriment of Australian consumers. 
If we could solve some of those problems, I am sure we would be well on the way to ascertaining why differential prices exist in Australia today. Under the heading 'General Observations', the report goes on to state: 
The single most distinctive feature of the industry in Australia is that its evolution and development has been almost untouched by the rational and integrated policy requirements of government. This policy vacuum is matched by the paucity, in the public domain, of published material which seriously analyses the industry's problems. 
Again, I think the report points out one of the major problems. The Government does not know what is going on because the development of the industry in Australia has gone ahead without any government regulation. There is not a great deal of published material available on which an investigation can proceed. 
For its fuel supplies, Australia is largely in the hands of foreign oil companies. Of the nine major oil companies operating in Australia seven are overseas companies. The remaining major companies- that is, Ampol Petroleum Limited and H. C. Sleigh Limited- together supply about 18 per cent of the market. It is quite obvious that Australia is in the hands of some of the most powerful oil companies in the world when it comes to the supply of fuel to Australia. It is true that some major companies are British owned or European owned and that they supply about 43 per cent of our motor spirit. There are also four United States corporations operating in Australia which supply about 38 per cent of the market. All told, the small operators apart from the Ampol and Sleigh companies supply only about three per cent of the market. The Commission in its conclusions makes the point that six out of the seven biggest oil companies in the world have entered the Australian market. The report states: 
What is in world terms a small market is divided up amongst nine major companies, all of which have adopted identical marketing styles. To take one example, Amoco entered the market at a time when there were already excessive numbers of service stations and excessive capital outlay in retail marketing. It entered the market by building more service stations and investing even more capital in the market. It entered at a time when the interests of international oil companies in retail markets resulted from a desire to have outlets for as much crude oil as possible. If there were, after the introduction of solus marketing, competitive forces at work, they were not sufficient to prevent not merely excessive investment by the existing marketers, but the entry of further investment of new marketers. 
Again one of the problems is that no attempt at rationalisation within the market is made to enable a reduction in costs so that fuel can be sold to Australians at a reasonable price. The proliferation of outlets and over-capitalisation have meant that the Australian purchasers are paying higher fuel prices. 
Let me deal with some of the matters that the report mentions. Earlier I mentioned solus trading. The report states: 
According to Shell, immediately before the introduction of solus trading, there were 1 1,035 reseller outlets in Australia. By 30 June 1 966 there were 2 1 ,29 1 operative reseller outlets in Australia. 
Solus trading commenced in 1951. These facts support the argument that we have far too many outlets and that this helps to add to the problems which we face in the distribution and retailing of petrol. Another problem we are facing is the fact that many of the companies which supply Australia with motor spirit are international companies. These companies are able to take advantage of tax havens overseas. I refer to what is known as 'vertical integration' amongst companies. The companies buy their oil overseas and they own the ships that transport the oil. The cost of the product is inflated to cover transport charges in bringing the oil to Australia. The Australian authorities found after examining this matter that the inflated freight charges which are tacked on to the price of the oil resulted in higher priced petrol in Australia. Again this is the sort of activity that makes the position much more difficult. 
The report also talks about brand images. We all know the sort of advertising that goes on in respect of the different brands of fuel declaring the additives contained in the fuel, claiming how much better a particular brand of fuel will make a car go and so on. Under the heading 'Brand Image: Differentiating the Undifferentiable' the report reads: 
Technically, there is a wide scope for variation in the characteristics and quality standards of motor spirit. Motor spirit is a blend of many hydrocarbon compounds. However, the cost of distribution in Australia has led the marketers to distribute by means of product exchange arrangements whereunder one company will draw a large part of the product distributed under its name from the refinery of another company. Thus Australia-wide only 40 per cent of motor spirit sold by Shell retail outlets is refined in Shell refineries, though Shell incorporates its additives into motor spirit, before sale under its brand name. 
The report goes on to say: 
When motor spirit is collected by a road tanker from the terminal or other supply point for delivery to retail outlets, the marketing company under whose brand name the product is to be sold, may introduce a small quantity of some ingredient, usually a detergent, peculiar to the motor spirit sold under its brand. The range of possible additives is extensive . . . The improvement over the common specifications of motor spirit can only be marginal. 
These are a few of the matters which are mentioned in the Royal Commission's report. For the reasons I have outlined, I feel that this legislation, although it will give some assistance to people in some of the more remote rural areas, is inadequate because many people will miss out completely and there will be some disappointments. In view of the points that I have just referred to in the Collins Royal Commission report, I feel that the amendment deserves support. The second part of the Opposition's amendment reads: . . . the Bill: 
is silent on the defects in the system outlined in the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
I suggest everybody should have a closer look at that report. Whilst we are not opposing the legislation, we urge that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr 
Keating) should receive the support of the House. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Were armoured vehicle exercises involving the use of Leopard tanks carried out by the Army in the Woomera area during 1977. 
) Were tests carried out as to the suitability of Leopard tanks in the type of terrain in the Woomera area; if so, what was the result of those tests. 
) Is it intended that similar types of exercises will be carried out on a regular basis at Woomera in the future. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether it is the intention of the 
Government to introduce legislation to give the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island land rights in accordance with the principles already established for Aboriginals in the Northern Territory? If not, is this another sell-out of the Aboriginal people of Queensland? Finally, did any discussion take place on the land rights question during the recent meeting with the Premier of Queensland? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 February 1 978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the operations of the Aboriginal pre-apprentice training scheme being carried out by the College of Further Education, Port Augusta, to allow young Aboriginals to enter industry as apprentices. 
If so, did the Department of Aboriginal Affairs make any approaches to Commonwealth instrumentalities, especially in the Port Augusta area to allow a quota of young Aboriginals to become apprentices. 
If no approaches were made will he ensure that Commonwealth instrumentalities are required to offer a quota of apprenticeships to young Aboriginals as a means of ensuring that the work being carried out at the Aboriginal Preapprenticeship Training Scheme at Port Augusta is not completely wasted. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) In view of the concern being felt in the 3 main railway towns of Port Augusta, Port Pirie and Peterborough in South Australia as to the effect on these towns as a result of the takeover of South Australian country rail services, can he give a clear indication as to what changes are likely in each of these towns. 
) What staff changes are likely in the 3 towns as a result of any rationalisation of rail services. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 March, 1978: 
Is the Samin Copper Mine at Burra, South Australia, the only mine in Australia producing copper oxide as its main product. 
Are most of the products from this mine exported overseas. 
What prospects are there for a greater use of copper oxide from the mine for chemical fertilisers and other uses within Australia to ensure continuity of production at this mine. 
What other potential uses are there for this product. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) In the draft program to extend television services to the Eyre Peninsula, South Australia, where is it intended to establish the high power transmitter. 
Where will the additional translator stations be established under the program. 
3 ) What are the projected dates for these television facilities to become operative. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) Have any houses funded by his Department been provided for Aboriginal persons residing in the Port Pirie area of South Australia. 
Is it intended that any of these houses will be provided in the future. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the total Aboriginal population in the redistributed Electoral Division of Grey. 
What are the Aboriginal populations in the various towns and reserves. 
-The matter I wish to raise tonight is a matter of concern to a section of my electorate which has been hit pretty hard by unemployment. I refer, of course, to the city of Whyalla, where more than 13 per cent of the work force is unemployed. That, of course, is a direct result of the closure of the shipyards. A few hundred people are still working in the shipyards but it will be only a few more months before they are all out of the shipyards. There have been deputations to Canberra from that city. Those deputations have been from the town council, the local combined union council, chambers of commerce, various town organisations and so on. They have been interviewed by different Ministers. Of course, those deputations have been all to no avail. Whyalla has received no assistance whatsoever from the Government. It is quite obvious that the Government is not prepared to lift a finger in any shape or form to try to assist with the problems that face the city of Whyalla. 
Last year certain Liberal Party and Labor Party senators were invited to Whyalla to discuss the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the retention of the shipyards. Those senators went to Whyalla and, in conference with the Whyalla City Council, gave an assurance that they would support the recommendations in Canberra when the matter was raised. Of course, when the matter was raised the Liberal Party senators who had been to Whyalla not only supported the gagging of the debate on this issue when it was raised by a Labor Party senator but also voted against the proposition itself. 
Last February the concerned people of Whyalla called a public meeting to discuss the increasing problems in that city and how they could be overcome. All senators from South Australia, Labor Party and Liberal Party, were invited to be present. Of course, on the night of the meeting the Liberal Party senators did not turn up. They had other engagements. Therefore, the Liberal Party was not represented. Of course, the Labor Party senators turned up, as did the local members of parliament, and made their contributions to the discussions. Once again the people of Whyalla found the Liberal Party letting them down. 
Last year,  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton was asked by the town council to visit Whyalla to discuss the particular problems. He said he was prepared to do that. He said also that he would send some of his officers to examine the situation in order to find out what the Federal Government could do to assist. Since that day the council has been trying to get a copy of the report that was prepared by those officers but that report has not come to light. In the  Whyalla News  of 24 February of this year the Mayor is reported as urging the release of the report. That report was not released. As a result of that, the council again contacted the responsible Minister. The Minister who had promised to come to Whyalla was  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton but  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton was shifted to other places and did not visit Whyalla. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  took over  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton's portfolio and the responsibility rested with  Mr Lynch.  The council received a letter from  Mr Lynch  the week before last. I should like to refer to the council's reaction to that letter. I refer to an article in the Press headed 'Minister's letter is an insult to council'. The article stated: 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Lynch,  has been accused of 'insulting' the Whyalla City Council with 'a platitudinous piece of codswallop'. 
This reaction was . . . by a letter . . . in which the Minister refused a request for a copy of a report by the party of Commonwealth officials which visited Whyalla last August, and made no mention of a renewed request that  Mr Lynch  should visit the city. 
The Town  Clerk  . . . said of  Mr Lynch  's reply: 'Frankly, I'm astounded that a politician could think that the council is so naive, so stupid as to accept this platitudinous piece of codswallop. 'This is ridiculous. We spent six months talking in Canberra and not being heard. This is just schoolkid  stuff.' 
Various councillors were reported later in that Press report as making some rather rude comments. The closing words, which are contained in a box on the same page, are as follows: 
City councillors, exasperated and bitter at  Mr Lynch  's failure to respond to repeated requests to come to Whyalla, cast about almost desperately for ways to convince the Minister to see the city's problems for himself. 
Perhaps he could be invited to open the new Community Welfare Centre, one suggested. But that was rejected as being in the province of the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle. 
Then the Town Clerk . . . made the suggestion that ended further discussion on that aspect of the matter: ' We should get BHP to ask him to formally close the shipyard. ' 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) Is the business carried out at the unofficial post office at Coober Pedy, South Australia, sufficient to warrant the upgrading in status of this office to an official post office. 
What are the criteria that are used to decide the status of post offices. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer the Minister to his statement of 1 5 December when he said that the sales of land by the joint venture were completed by 7 April 1976. How does the Minister reconcile his statement with the existence of a certificate of transfer which shows that Grosvenor Nominees, a firm acting on behalf of the 
Lynch family trust, transferred its interest in three blocks of land to the Australian Equity Corporation for a consideration on 17 September 1976, many months after the Minister's statement that payment had been received in full? 
-On a number of occasions in this House I have raised the question of the Stuart Highway, that shocking piece of road, the main road to the Northern Territory, which runs from Port Augusta to Alice Springs. But it is not mainly about the road that I want to speak tonight. I want to refer rather to an incident that happened on that road yesterday afternoon. It was an accident such as people in that area, because of the increased number of tourist buses going through that area to Alice Springs, feared would happen. They were concerned that a bus would be involved in a major accident a long way from assistance. Honourable members may have heard over the radio or read in the newspaper this morning what happened. The Adelaide  Advertiser  described it as: 'One dead- 20 hurt in bus-semi crash'. The accident happened yesterday afternoon in a very isolated locality. Coober Pedy is about 390 miles northwest of Port Augusta by road. Mount Willoughby, where the accident happened, is another 100 miles further on. Between Port Augusta and Alice Springs there are only two places where any medical attention is available- at the Woomera rocket range near Pimba and the Coober Pedy opal field, where there is a small hospital and medical centre. 
I raise this matter tonight to pay tribute to the work of the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia. The report by the Adelaide  Advertiser  of the accident reads: 
There were 45 passengers in the bus. 
The chartered Greyhound bus rolled over after hitting the jack-knifed semi-trainer. 
The accident happened about two kilometres south of Mount Willoughby station about 1 . 30 p.m. 
That is approximately half way along the road between Alice Springs and Port Augusta and is in a very isolated situation. The report continued: 
The alarm was raised by outback radio from the station and the Royal Flying Doctor Service was alened at 2 p.m. 
An RFDS aircraft was at Tarcoola, about 300 kilometres south of Mount Willoughby, and flew to the station immediately. 

 Dr S. Hammond, from Port Augusta, reached the scene about 3 p.m. and called for extra aircraft. 
A second RFDS plane from Port Augusta and two St John Ambulance aircraft from Whyalla also went to help. 

 Dr Hammond stabilised the seriously injured at the scene while the aircraft flew five of those needing hospital treatment to Coober Pedy. 
The seriously injured were then flown to the Whyalla Hospital, where specialised facilities were available. 
The first of the two RFDS planes, a twin-engine Beechcraft Baron, arrived at Whyalla Airport at 10.30 p.m. with the seriously injured driver of the semi-trailer and a girl with a broken arm. 
That will give honourable members an idea of the way in which this service operates and why it is important to the people of that area. The outback area of South Australia is served by a Royal Flying Doctor Service at Port Augusta, with the back-up service of St John's Ambulance at Whyalla. The St John's Ambulance service was called in to fly to the scene, but I understand that the Flying Doctor aircraft were themselves able to handle the situation. People who have lived in the outback, as I have, along the east-west railway line realise the reliance that one must place on these aircraft, which are available when someone becomes sick. That service is especially appreciated when an accident occurs in a remote area where medical attention is not readily available and has to be flown in hundreds of miles. One can appreciate just what a magnificent job the Royal Flying Doctor Service does in the bush. 
Two books have been written about the Service. One, I remember, was  Mantle of Safety.  The name of another that I read quite recently slips my memory, but it was published to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the Service. The extent of its assistance to people in isolated areas has been increasing. Certainly for them it provides a mantle of safety. They know that if something does go wrong they can call on it for assistance. There have been two occasions in my own life when I have had to take advantage of it. One instance quite recently involved illness and fortunately an aircraft was available. In one case a relative of mine was flown to Adelaide. Luckily, as we found out, he was not in a very serious condition. It is certainly a comfort for people in the outback areas to know that that service is operating. It certainly deserves the respect and support of everybody in Australia. While the people in the cities may not fully appreciate the service that is provided, the people in the country certainly do. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the plans of his Department with regard to the Commonwealth Health Laboratories at Port Pirie, South Australia. 
Will he give an undertaking that at least the present scale of operations of the Port Pirie laboratories will continue. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the possibility of the establishment of a petrochemical project at Redcliffs in South Australia by Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd and the approach made by the South Australian Government to the Federal Government for assistance in providing the necessary infrastructure should the company involved decide to go ahead with the project. Can the Prime Minister give the House any information he may have on his Government's attitude to the approach by the South Australian Government for assistance in providing the necessary infrastructure, bearing in mind that such a project would save the nation over $200m a year in our balance of payments? 
-The main purpose of the Fisheries Amendment Bill 1978 is to extend Australian jurisdiction over fishing to cover the 200-mile zone beyond the low water mark. This legislation is of relevance to the electorate of Grey as the major fishing port of Port Lincoln is within that electorate, along with a number of smaller fishing centres along the southern coast of South Australia and along the shores of Spencer Gulf where tuna, prawns and crayfish are the main catches, with other species available. So I assume that any alteration to the Australian jurisdiction would be of some importance to these particular areas. Whilst the Law of the Sea Conference is not moving with any great haste, a substantial measure of agreement has been reached on the question of the 200-mile economic zones, and this Bill will bring us into line with the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Japan, Canada, New Zealand and the European Economic Community countries. 
If Australia is to take full advantage of the extended zone, we will have to make a full and comprehensive survey of our present fishing industry which is, at the present time, only small when compared with the industries of most of the nations that I have just mentioned. From the information that is available, our existing inshore fisheries, which cover the majority of our fisheries, are almost fully exploited and there is apparently substantial opportunity for the expansion of the fisheries along the Continental 
Shelf. But this can come about only if we are prepared to expand greatly our fishing activities in an effort to exploit them. 
As we have a vast coastline and a small population by world standards, doubts exist as to whether we have the necessary resources to carry this out. In the past, I have always been of the opinion that we have known very little of what our resources are and I suspected that other nations' knowledge of the fishing potential was very much greater than our own. With this in mind, it was very interesting to read the report of the working party, established by the Australian Fisheries Council, on the 200-mile Australian fishing zone. That publication was released a short time ago. The report refers not only to the fisheries and to the species that we are exploiting at the present time- basically inshore fisheriesbut also to those currently being exploited or likely to be developed by Australian fishermen, and, finally, those not being exploited by Australian fishermen on a commercial basis. Of the latter, the report contains information and maps showing the types of fish that it may be possible to exploit in the future. I refer to bluefin tuna, skipjack tuna, northern bluefin tuna, yellowfin tuna, various types of sharks, jack mackeral and various other types of fish. However, as pointed out in the report, the potential of these fisheries is unknown and would require considerable research by ourselves, or from information already gained by other nations which have fished these waters. 
Because of our limited resources, it would appear that to allow the initial exploration of the demersal fisheries on the wider continental shelf we would have to permit the participation of other nations in the exploitation of the areas in conjunction with our own ability to exploit them. Any participation by other nations would, of course, have to be under full Australian control, not only in the areas in which they would be allowed to exploit but also in limits on the quantity of the catch. I understand that a number of the nations that fish long distances from their own shores have been disadvantaged by the 200-mile economic zone proclamations and, if excluded, would face a considerable drop in their catch. The two nations that would be most affected would be Japan and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
If we are to join in joint ventures with other nations, we must ensure that we are careful in choosing the most suitable partners. On selection of those partners, we would have to lay down guidelines that would secure the long-term interests of Australia. We would have prior claim to our resources which we could exploit, but in areas where we did not have the full capacity to exploit, we would allow the entry of suitable partners. If we permit other nations to fish in our 200-mile zone, we will have to ensure that we have proper management of our resources. We would also have to ensure that our joint operations would be in our economic interest and provide assistance to our industry to allow us to develop our own ability to utilise these resources in the future. As other nations have greater expertise in deeper water fishing, we could expect assistance from them in developing our own expertise. We would have to provide for a greater number of specialists in the field to obtain the maximum scientific information. 
We would also have to provide a greater number of properly equipped research vessels. Perhaps arrangements could be made with our partners to hire such vessels, vessels that would be capable of operating in deep water or, better still, we could build our own by making use of the facilities that now exist at Whyalla. In any joint venture with a foreign partner, it would be essential that there be a considerable financial involvement by the Government, as the present structure of our fishing industry would not allow the extent of financial involvement required. A fair and just agreement with a suitable foreign partner would bring some considerable benefit to Australia in economic terms generally, would increase both on-shore and off-shore employment around our coastline, would provide better and more advanced port facilities, improved technology and equipment and a trade-off position for some of our other primary products. 
A further need for full Federal Government involvement in any joint ventures is absolutely necessary, as any potential partners would most probably have their own government handling all the negotiations. In referring to our own Government, it would be essential that the closest consultation with the States takes place, bearing in mind the dual jurisdiction that applies between the States and the Commonwealth under the constitutional rights in this field. My own State, South Australia, has probably the best management policy of all the States, and I am sure that any South Australian Minister would require full consultation to ensure that the management policies are well protected. 
Problems will arise as a result of this legislation in the delineation of the boundaries of the 200-mile zone of a number of countries, the two most obvious being Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. If we declare the zones around our island Territories we will have overlapping claims with New Zealand and France. It would be interesting to know just what the Government intends to do to overcome these particular problems. In this context I am not referring to the statement that was made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  today on the agreement with Papua New Guinea. We should also take into account the needs of the developing countries and the position of countries which have been operating in the increased 200-mile zone for many years. We do not want to appear that we are adopting a dog-in-the-manger attitude by denying access where we are not in a situation where we can exploit the resources, but we would want to ensure that we still maintain our control of the areas. 
Although, the Minister makes reference to the severe penalties that will apply under this Act for breaches, one wonders how these penalties will be enforced when one considers the length of our coastline, and the difficulties this will bring. Stationing of Australian inspectors on foreign fishing vessels would be one way to police the catches, et cetera, but I feel we would require a large number of these inspectors. At a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference I attended in Canada last year, concern was expressed by the small island nations of the Pacific at the difficulties they were experiencing in policing their waters, but I understand that Western Samoa is canvassing the possibility of a multi-national force to police the waters of the South Pacific. I understand that we have had some discussions along the same lines with some of our immediate neighbours. This may assist in overcoming part of the problem, but I feel that it would not be sufficient to provide us with the surveillance we would require. 
The report on the 200-mile Australian fishing zone carried out by a working party of the Australian Fisheries Council has provided a considerable amount of very worthwhile information relating to the Bill. It classifies the three types of Australian fisheries as, firstly, fisheries already developed; secondly, the fisheries currently being or likely to be developed by Australian fishermen on a commercial basis; and, thirdly, fisheries not being currently exploited by Australian fishermen on a commercial basis. Of these three categories, the working group 'considers that under no circumstances should foreign participation be considered in the first category of fisheries'. The group 'considers that there may be some scope for foreign participation, at least in the short term, in relation to some species in the second category of fisheries'. 
In the case of the third category, there is scope for foreign participation at present. 
The Opposition has moved an amendment to the Bill, which seeks to add these words: 
Whilst not opposing the Bill, the House calls upon the Government to ensure that the guidelines determined by the Australian Fisheries Council in January 1977, to control foreign participation and give first priority to the local industry, be strictly observed. 
The Opposition feels that the questions of strict guidelines are not sufficiently set out in the Bill, and it is for this reason that we urge support for the amendment. 
We are also debating two other Bills that relate to the extension of the fishing zone. We are also moving an amendment to the Whaling Amendment Bill and, whilst we are not opposing the Bill, we will call on the Government to alter the Frost inquiry terms of reference requiring the Commission to submit positive proposals to guarantee increased maximum resources employment in the Albany region, prior to declaring a moratorium on whaling. We urge that both these amendments secure the support of the House. I trust that the legislation will result in a growth in our fishing industry around the Australian coastline and, from a personal point of view, I hope we will see an expansion of fishing activities in the fishing communities around the waters adjacent to the Grey electorate. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
What assistance is made available by his Department by way of capital or maintenance costs for airstrips providing an air service to communities such as Andamooka and Coober Pedy, S.A., where the airstrips are owned by community organisations and, as no local government operates, are outside the provisions of the local ownership plan. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer the Minister to the Government's election promise, which is of particular interest to people living in rural areas, that there will be an extension of the limit for the provision of free telephone line plant from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres. Will this extension apply to both manual and automatic telephones? What is the expected time of completion of the Government's commitment? Further, will the Government direct Telecom Australia to absorb the additional cost of the Government's directives or will a Budget appropriation be made to meet the cost? 
I refer the Acting Prime Minister to the coalition's election promise to provide rural producers, through a primary industry bank, with 'long-term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest'. I ask: Does the Treasurer's statement in the second-reading speech to the Primary Industry Bank Amendment Bill that interest rates will be determined after consultation between the Commonwealth and the bank board, mean that the promise to provide concessional interest rates is inoperative? If not, what will be the magnitude of the interest rate concession? 
-This clause, which refers to the travel and accommadation allowance, is probably the only welcome aspect of the Bills that are before us at present. Whilst we know that it will be of great advantage to people in rural areas, I think it is probably a sugar coating to cover the less acceptable provisions in these Bills. A number of approaches have been taken to this matter over the years by me, by my friend the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  and no doubt by other members representing country electorates. They all realise what a problem it has been for people living in country areas to receive medical attention and what a disadvantage it is when the cost involved in receiving that attention is taken into account. It is a fact that in many cases the cost of getting to medical attention is far and above the actual cost of that attention. 
As I represent a large country electorate, this problem has been brought to my attention forceably on a number of occasions. I could quote some quite tragic and traumatic experiences of people living in country areas. These people are not very wealthy but they are put in the position where they have to travel to Adelaide for specialist treatment at regular intervals. The financial burden placed on those people is considerable. As I say, people have raised this matter with me on many occasions but I am afraid I have not been able to give them much assistance because to date no government has been prepared to recognise the problem. In the representations I and other members have made in the past we have suggested that possibly the way in which the people could be assisted would be to allow the cost incurred in receiving this attention to become a tax deduction. 
Here again I would agree with what the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has done in this case in providing for the Government to pay any amount over and above a certain figure- it is $ 1 5 a day for accommodation and $20 a day for travelling expenses. It is probably a much better and more equitable scheme. There would be a lot of inequity in the situation regarding taxation deductions. The lower wage earner, who was not paying a great deal of tax in the first place, still had to pay the medical expenses incurred. So the amount by which he could benefit from any taxation allowance that was granted to him because of medical expenses incurred would not be a great deal. We feel that this scheme certainly is a little easier to operate and it is a little more straightforward and more effective. 
In referring to the people who live in the rural areas this legislation is not referring just to farmers. It is also referring to the people who live in country towns and, in many cases, provincial cities that are more than 200 kilometres from the capital cities. This Bill will help quite a few people in my own electorate, including the railway employees along the east-west railway line and the central Australian railway Une to Alice Springs as well as the people in the isolated opal mining towns of Coober Pedy and Andamooka and the people in the Eyre Peninsular area and other areas distant from the cities. I commend the Minister for including this provision in the Bill. Again I say that of the four Bills before us I feel that this provision is the only one which can be commended. There are some pretty obnoxious provisions in the remainder of the legislation. 
Although this clause is of advantage to the people in country areas, I do not think that the remainder of the legislation will be of benefit to country people generally. I think that the contents of this legislation clearly indicate the ideological difference between the manner in which the Opposition approaches these questions and the manner in which the Government approaches them. We know that right from the word go people on the Government side of the chamber- the members of the Liberal and National Country parties- have opposed the Medibank concept. It was first devised in the late 1960s. They opposed it hotly during the 1969 and 1 972 elections. I do not think that basically they have ever changed their opposition to it. The people endorsed the Medibank proposals in 1972 when they elected the Labor Government to office. In the years following the 1972 election the Liberal and National Country parties were divided on the issue. Honourable members will recall that when the Medibank legislation was introduced into this House the Liberal and National Country parties had divided views on the matter. The Country Party finished up by crossing the floor and voting with the Labor Party on this matter. The first Medibank proposal was introduced in 1973. We saw the opposition it received from the people who are now on the Government side of the chamber and we saw the opposition the proposal received from the then Opposition in the Senate, which took a hard line and endeavoured to stop every proposal which the Labor Party put forward. However, because the legislation had been introduced and rejected the required number of times the Labor Party was able to introduce its Medibank proposals after the double dissolution in 1974. When the legislation was reintroduced after the 1974 double dissolution it was allowed to be passed. Of course, one of the problems that we faced was that our Medibank proposals were to be financed by the imposition of a levy on taxation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the South Australian Government has provided the sum of $43,500,000 for employment opportunities for unemployed persons under the State Unemployed Relief Scheme since November 1975. 
) If so, and as the amount provided has saved the Federal Government millions of dollars in the payment of unemployed benefits, had the SUR Scheme not been initiated, has any consideration been given to reimbursing the South Australian Government for the amount of unemployment benefits saved. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Literature Board made any payments to the magazine  New Poetry  for the purpose of making payments to contributors. 
If so, what sum was paid in (a) 1976-77, and (b) 1977-78. 
Where the contributors paid; if not, for what purpose has the money been used. 
Have any irregularities been evident in the management of the magazine. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
When will the Government release its decision on the submission by the South Australian Government on the establishment of a railway rolling stock manufacturing plant at Whyalla, S.A. as recommended by the working party established by the South Australian Government to find other employment opportunities at Whyalla following the closure of the Whyalla shipyards? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) How many junior employees, who have obtained employment under the Special Youth Employment Training Scheme, have had their services terminated within (a) 6 months and (b) 7 months, in each of the cities of (i) Port Pirie, (ii) Port Augusta and (iii) Whyalla, South Australia, since the introduction of the scheme. 
How many junior employees have obtained employment through this Scheme in (a) Port Pirie (b) Port Augusta and (c) Whyalla, South Australia, since the scheme was introduced. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
I ) In view of the Government's stated intentions to cease the operations of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation, what are the Government's intentions in regard to the operations of the Organisation at Woomera, South Australia. 
ls it a fact that the Organisation provides the main retail services for the staff at Woomera and the United States Nurrunger base, both being located in an area far removed from alternative services. 
In the event of the closure of the Organisation at Woomera, what consideration is to be given to present staff at Woomera made redundant by the closure of operations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) Has he instructed Australian National Railways to reduce staff by several hundred persons; if so, how are the reductions to be carried out. 
Which branches of ANR will be affected by the reductions. 
What assurance can he give that the rights and conditions of both salaried and wages staff will be fully protected. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the quantity and value of artificial opal either manufactured in or imported into Australia. 
What Australian firms are involved in the production of this material. 
Has his attention been drawn to the concern being expressed by miners and others involved in the opal industry at the threat posed by this material to the natural opal mining industry. 
I suppose that one could agree with some of the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates).  Hopefully he will use his influence with the Government to do something about these matters. The ball is certainly in the Government's court. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his speech of 12 September in reference to the Budget, said: 
Those in real need certainly will not find this a hard Budget. 
The Australian Council of Social Service has stated: 
The 1978-79 Budget reflects an unmitigated deterioration of the position of the poorest and most disadvantaged groups in our community. Under the guise of austerity a massive redistribution of resources has occurred away from the unemployed, the pensioners and other low income groups. 
I think that typifies what this Budget is all about. It was certainly a leaky Budget. Months beforehand information was being leaked to the newspapers about what would take place. We knew that petrol prices were going to rise and the means test was going to be reintroduced. As has happened in the past, a lot of these things come out before a Budget is presented and then, when the Budget is brought down, it is not nearly so bad and people accept the smaller imposts in the Budget. For this Budget the leaks proved to be correct. It can be called a Budget of broken promises because that is certainly what it is. Let me start with the promise that Medibank would be retained, and this promise goes back to the 1975 election. What do we find now? Medibank as we knew it under the Whitlam Government has gone. The promise made during the 1975 election campaign that the Government would retain Medibank has been broken. There were promises of jobs for all, but the unemployment position has deteriorated to a fair extent since this Government came into office. That is another broken promise. In regard to taxation, I remember the election advertisement last December showing someone holding up a fistful of $5 notes and setting out what the Fraser Government would do if it was returned. The Government gave some concessions in February but it has now taken them away. It gave with one hand and took away with the other. 
It is obvious that the recipients of social security payments have been hit hard by the Budget. Let me deal with social security benefits and some of the broken promises. The Government said that it would take politics out of social security benefit increases, which were to be granted twice a year in line with the consumer price index. Now we find that they are to be granted only once a year. There is to be a freeze on pension increases for those over 70 years of age. In effect, the Government has reintroduced the means test for people of that age. That is another broken promise. In regard to unemployment benefits, a beneficiary with no dependants is not to receive any increase. Young recipients of unemployment benefits have had no increase since 1975. In the city of Whyalla a very bad employment situation obtains and it has had a very bad effect there. This Government has had a fair bit to do with creating the problem because of its policy of closing the shipyards and its recent refusal to assist the State Government by establishing a rolling stock manufacturing plant there. A report in today's Adelaide  Advertiser  states: 
Record jobless in Whyalla. 
A record 1,933 people were registered as unemployed here last month. 
Figures issued by the Commonwealth Employment Service show an increase of 22 1 on the previous month. 
It is the second time this year the record has been broken- in May, 1,857 people were registered as unemployed. 
That will give the House an idea of the situation in Whyalla. The unemployment rate was 13. 1 per cent and I would say that now it would be between 14 per cent and 15 per cent. In the social security area there are other matters which the Government has introduced in this Budget that affect the less fortunate in society. It is going to tax the allowance for people in sheltered employment and also rehabilitation allowances. Family allowances were introduced with much fanfare in 1976 and have remained at the same figures since that time, with no indexation. The allowance for the children of pensioners has not been increased since 1975. In addition the supplementary allowance of $5 a week has not been increased since 1975 and there is to be a restriction on pensioner health benefits and various other matters relating to the less fortunate in society. The level of permissible earnings for beneficiaries of unemployment, sickness and special benefits has not been increased in this Budget, and I point out that the level has not been adjusted since 1974. This has a very bad effect in cases where people have some income. The fact that the permissible level of earnings has not been altered means that many people I know who receive small superannuation pensions which are indexed find that as soon as their pensions reach a particular level they lose all their benefits. Although they get a small increase in superannuation, because they go over that level they lose any fringe benefits they have as well as some of their social security payments. The Government has also taken away the maternity allowance, which has been traditional in Australia. All these things hit the less fortunate in society the hardest and are matters for which the Government should be condemned. 
There are a few points dealing with the rural sector that I would like to mention. A few months ago a lot of trumpeting went on with the introduction of the fuel subsidy scheme, which helped to pay some of the freight costs for fuel in rural areas. The scheme was greeted as being a great gift to people in the rural areas, but I have always been a strong critic of it. Even with the payment of the subsidy, in many outback areas people are still paying prices way above those paid by people in the capital cities. In a statement last week to the National Press Club the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said that the increase in freight prices to people in rural areas would be covered by the fuel subsidy scheme. Either he is having himself on or he is very poor at figures because it is only in the very remote areas that that would occur. As far as my own State is concerned, it is only in areas 600 or 700 miles from Adelaide that the fuel subsidy scheme would in any way offset the increase in fuel prices. I can remember a State Liberal member in my electorate making a claim a few months ago that an alleged delay in South Australia in introducing the fuel subsidy scheme would cost a particular town in the electorate $60,000 a month, and that was on a subsidy of 0.8c a litre. Looking at those very dubious figures, and they are dubious, the increase in fuel prices introduced by this Government will cost that town $260,000. The decision on fuel prices will add $160m a year to farmers' costs and will certainly amount to a lot more than the $40m a year in superphosphate bounty which they receive from the Government. The Government is going to add $160m to their annual costs through increased fuel prices. 
One item in the Budget that has had a very bad effect in South Australia is the increase in the excise on brandy. About 85 per cent of South Australia's brandy comes from the River Murray region, and the excise increase has placed the brandy producers in a very difficult situation. I am sure that my friend the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  has also struck this problem. Increased transport costs will seep right through the whole economy and will certainly make the position of the farmers a lot more difficult. The honourable member for Holt referred to the training of young people. The Budget makes provision for reduced backing for the operation of the Australian National Railways. As a result, it is anticipated that a number of country railway lines in South Australia will close. We know that the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  opposed the railway amalgamation. He now accepts it but he is going to close all the country railway lines. 
This is a matter which touches on the employment of young people. In answer to a question I asked recently the Minister said that the Australian National Railways had reduced its work force by 1,500 since June 1975 and will have to reduce it by another 340. One of the results of this, and it has become evident in the last couple of weeks, is that the Australian National Railways, which has always taken on about 45 apprentices a year at Port Augusta, will take no apprentices whatsoever this year. The Whyalla shipyards, which were another large employer of apprentices in that area, have stopped operations and another avenue has been closed off. But thanks to the Government's policy another avenue for the training of apprentices will not be opened this year, that is to say, there will be no apprentices for the Australian National Railways. That avenue appears now to have gone. This is an extremely short-sighted policy which has raised a lot of opposition from the trade unions in the area, from the local council, from the chambers of commerce and, of course from the parents of those children who are coming onto the labour market this year. Once the present apprentices go the Australian National Railways will dismantle the training system it has now and it is doubtful whether it will start up again. I urge the Minister to reconsider this decision. It will create a vacuum of which the railways will feel the effect in a number of years when the apprentices they would normally have are not coming on. 
I am afraid that time will not allow it but one can cite a number of government publications such as 'Training Talkback', which has a headline which reads 'Warning on Skill Shortages', and another which mentions a number of programs by which the Government assists the training of young people, including the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training. Yet this Government, which boasts about the proposals which it brings into operation to assist in the training of young people, is going to make a decision that this year there will be no training of apprentices in one of its own instrumentalities. It is interesting to quote from a statement which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  made with reference to the CRAFT scheme. It reads: 

 Mr Street stressed the need to have trained tradesmen available as economic recovery occurred, in order to meet the need of industry and help avoid skills bottlenecks which promoted inflation. 
One can quote all these statements and see just how hypocritical they are when we see what the Government is actually doing. My colleague the member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question on notice covering the training of young people and the subsidising of employees. Again time will not allow me to quote in full the answer which was given, but it mentions where the assistance comes from, including some sections of the National Employment and Training System, the Manpower Development Officer Subsidy Scheme, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme, the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme and quite a number of others. If one reads further on in the answer one sees some of the things which are possible. Part of the answer states: 
Under the Additional Apprentices Scheme, arrangements were made for certain Commonwealth and State Government establishments to provide complete apprenticeships over and above their own training requirements, thus utilising valuable surplus training capacity. The entire cost of these apprenticeships is met by the Commonwealth, and apprentices on completion of training are available to private industry. This scheme is now being phased down in favour of the Group One- Year Scheme. 
One can go through all those schemes. The Government is prepared to boast about what it is doing and introduce these schemes to help private employers. Yet in a major instrumentality of its own over which it has complete control and in which a complete training setup has been established with very competent instructors it has decided that it will not train any apprentices. It is all right to talk about reducing staff and putting on staff ceilings but here the Government has an opportunity to put its money where its mouth is. It is prepared to pay money to private employers for all the schemes which are going to help the training of apprentices and in its own establishment, which is in a small country city and which is the main area in which apprentices can receive training, it is going to turn its back on the school leavers this year and throw them onto the market. I urge the Government to reconsider this decision because I feel that it is an insult to the people in that area. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLean)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Can he inform the House whether any decision has been made in relation to approval being given to the South Australian Government's application for loan funds to finance the infrastructure of the petrochemical complex at Redcliff in South Australia? If not, when is the decision to be released? 
-The matter that I raise tonight concerns employees of the Government. I refer to the operation of the compensation legislation that covers Commonwealth employees and in particular those people who have long-term injuries and are off work for over six months. At present the employee receives full pay for the first six months but once that period is up his weekly payment drops considerably. These rates have been increased only once since 1974, when the Labor Government increased them. Prior to that date, the Labor Government had tried to bring in more comprehensive compensation legislation to cover its employees but of course it was defeated in the Senate by the Liberal Party and National Country Party senators. Subsequently Labor took the opportunity of increasing the rates to what were more appropriate rates at that time. Those rates continued for another 12 months. 
In 1975 the then Labor Government introduced another Bill that would have increased the rates to what would have been more applicable at that time. The rates were then $57 a week for the injured person, $ 1 5 a week for his wife and $7 a week for each child. That Bill which was drafted by the Labor Government was one of the Bills that lay on the table when the Kerr coup took place. The result was that that legislation never came before the House and of course those people missed out on an increase to which they should have been entitled. When the present Government came to power in 1975 the recipients of long-term compensation had to wait another 12 months before any move was made to adjust their weekly payments. Nothing further was done until October 1976 when a Bill was introduced which made increased payments retrospective to, I think, 1 September. It increased payments to $80 a week for the employee, $21 a week for his wife and $10 a week for each child. The compensation recipients went from 1974 to 1976 without any adjustment in the amount of weekly payments. 
It is now 1978 and it does not appear that these rates will be adjusted this year. That means that they have gone a further two years without any adjustment in their rates of pay. I have written to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on this matter. I have raised it in the House on a couple of occasions and, up to date, I have had no response. The Minister replied that the matter would be considered in the context of the Budget. Quite obviously it has not been included in the Budget. The Government appears to be reluctant to introduce legislation to adjust the amount of compensation payable to these people. If legislation is not introduced this year to effect an increase it will mean that these people will have gone three years without any adjustment whatsoever having been made. These are people who are on long-term compensation. Most of them have back injuries and injuries from which they suffer considerable pain all the time. Most of these people worked for wages. 
I come in close contact with a great number of these people. Many of them were employed either by Telecom Australia on line gangs or by Australia Post. Most of them were employees of the Australian National Railways. A vast majority of the Australian National Railways employees who are suffering these injuries were fettlers and people who were employed in jobs in which there is more risk of injury to their person. These people have now been waiting for two years for an increase in their rates of payment. From the Budget it does not appear as though the increase will be forthcoming this year. There was no mention whatsoever in the Budget of any alteration. I feel that the Government should adopt a more humane attitude to these people. 
The Government should take a close look at this matter with the object of ensuring that the rates of payment these people receive are increased. I quoted the rates earlier: They are $80 a week for the employee, $2 1 a week for the wife and $10 a week for each child. That means that a man with a wife and two children receives $121 a week. That payment is made to an employee of the Government who has been injured at work and is off work for a considerable time. I earnestly ask the Government and the Minister to have a close look at this matter. If something is not done it will certainly not be to the Government's credit. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
In view of the fact that long-term recipients of Commonwealth compensation have only had their weekly payments adjusted once since 1974, when will adjustments be made to these weekly payments to bring them in line with present wage and salary standards. 
When was the Prime Minister first advised that plutonium buried at Maralinga could be stolen by terrorists? Did he receive this advice from the Minister for Defence? Is he satisfied with the quality of the advice, and does he accept that all appropriate action has been taken to overcome the supposed terrorist threat? Is he convinced that the Minister is in full control of his Department? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
1 ) What size railway lines are being used in the track being constructed on the new Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway and in which sections of the track are those lines being used. 
What sections are being laid with (a) new rails and (b) second hand rails. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 978: 
1 ) What reductions in staff have taken place in the former Commonwealth Railways section of Australian National Railways since June 1975. 
What reductions have taken place in each of the branches of that system since June 1975 and how many of those have been (a) salaried and (b) wages staff. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
In view of the intention to erect Commonwealth Offices at Port Augusta, SA, will the Department of Social Security establish an office in the building to enable it to service the north and north-west of the State. 
If so, when is it anticipated that the office will be operational. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
Under the terms of operation of unofficial post offices, is an unofficial post office permitted to display party political propaganda with the precincts of that unofficial post office. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 September, 1978: 
Have any definite plans been decided regarding the operations of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation at Woomera, SA. 
What arrangements are to be made regarding existing staff. 
Have any alternate arrangements been made regarding services now being provided by the Organisation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has the Australian National Railways Commission made a firm decision to discontinue the Ghan passenger service between Port Augusta and Alice Springs? Has this proposal been submitted to the Minister for his approval? Does he intend to support such a decision? What discussions have taken place between the Australian National Railways Commission and the unions involved- unions whose members will be seriously affected by such a decision? 
-In speaking to the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry, I do not think there is much in this Budget from which the rural producer can take heart. It is just as well that throughout Australia at present the season looks good. I know that in my electorate crops are coming along well and it seems to be a good season. But that is no thanks to the Government. There are many areas in the Budget in which the farmers receive no comfort at all. In many areas they will feel the effects for quite some time. A few months ago members of the Government were trumpeting around the country stating what a great benefit the fuel pricing subsidy would be. Under that scheme transport costs of fuel were subsidised. Despite all that trumpeting, the Budget reversed the whole process and increased the price considerably, which more that wiped out any benefit that was received as a result of the fuel subsidy. 
I represent the more outback areas of South Australia. Those people received minimum benefit from the subsidy. But they were hit hard again when the new pricing scheme came in. To quote an example, the people in Ceduna received a 0.72c a litre subsidy but when the new price came in the price of petrol went up by about 3.5c a litre. So there was no comfort that they could have got out of that. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated at a Press Club luncheon here a couple of weeks ago that the increase in the price of fuel as a result of the Budget would be cushioned by the fuel subsidy. I do not think that there is any balance whatsoever there because, as I have just noted, in one area which is 500 miles by road from Adelaide they received 0.72c a litre subsidy and the increase amounted to 3.5c. So there was no comfort for the rural producers there. 
The report of the Industries Assistance Commission on crude oil pricing policy estimated that primary industry accounted for 19.5 per cent of Australia's total petroleum consumption. Since the additional cost for Australia as a whole would be $800m, the primary producers would suffer an additional impost in fuel costs of some $160m. The superphosphate subsidy amounts to some $40m a year and if we add $160m or $ 180m in fuel costs we see how the farmers have been let down the drain. 
I wish to refer, as did the honourable members for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  to the excise on brandy. Probably South Australia has been hardest hit because it produces more brandy than does any other State. It accounts for approximately 85 per cent of Australia's brandy production. I would like to quote from a summary of comments made by the Australian Wine and Brandy Producers' Association on the effect of the 1978-79 Budget on the brandy industry generally. The Association states that it will result in a reduction of Australia brandy clearances of 39 per cent in a full year and in excess brandy stocks. That point was made also by the honourable member for Wakefield. 
The Association states further that in 1979-80 no production would be required. It points to a worsening of the already serious grape surplus which has hit the River Murray areas over the last few years. The Association states that the impact on the South Australian Riverland region, which produces 85 per cent of Australia 's brandy grapes, will be catastrophic; that brandy distillers and grape growers have made long-term investments and cannot quickly change to other wine production. That point was also brought out by the honourable member for Wakefield, in whose electorate most of the brandy production in South Australia occurs. 
The Association also notes that the effect on government revenue will be insignificant and requests the Government, pending the outcome of the IAC inquiries, to reverse its Budget decision. I do not know why the Government did not wait, before placing this additional impost on the brandy producers, until the Industries Assistance Commission brought down its report. It would have been much fairer to the industry. A reference to the IAC submission appeared in today's  Adelaide Advertiser  in an article by political reporter Greg Kelton. The article reads: 
The South Australian Government makes this recommendation in a submission to the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into the wine grape industry which will hear evidence in Sydney today. 
The submission also recommends steps to restore the percentage price differential between imported spirits and Australian brandy to the level existing before August 1 973. 
The article goes on to mention quite a few other matters and quotes from the submission as follows: 
To help alleviate some of the problems facing the wine and grape industries, the Government requests that excise on Australian brandy be reduced to $12.50 . . . 
The differential of $6.79 or 35 p.c. created between Scotch whisky and Australian brandy would create a similar percentage differential to that prior to August 21,1973. 
In conjunction with this, it is requested that all bulk imported brandy be held in bond in Australia for a period of two years as is Australian brandy . . . 
The Government therefore requests that any further taxes, excises, levies, et cetera, that are contemplated, be deferred for at least a period of five years and that, if and when any future imposts are contemplated, advance warning be given to the industry so that it has adequate opportunity to adjust. 
Certainly, it is a bit late in the day but I do hope that the Government will examine this matter further. It is hitting hard the South Australian Riverland areas and areas such as those of the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Wakefield. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  spoke of the establishment of the Primary Industry Bank in rather glowing terms. I do not think that people in the rural industries think of it in those terms. He made the excuse that the Government had never said there would be low rates of interest; rather, that they would be concessional rates. They are, of course, 10.5 per cent up to $ 100,000 and 12.5 per cent for sums greater than $100,000. 1 recall last session asking a question of the Minister concerning concessional rates of interest and the Minister's replying that they would be at somewhere about the level of overdraft rates. Perhaps the honourable member for Murray was referring to an article in  The Cattleman,  which states that according to the union's national director,  Mr Barry  Cassell, bank rates - 
I know that he is not a friend of the honourable member. He said that the rates had jumped from 10.5 per cent to between 13 and 14 per cent. I suppose that if one is facing those sorts of interest rates 10.5 per cent and 12 per cent become concessional interest rates. The Government certainly took in the rural producers on this matter. I have spoken to rural organisations in my electorate and know what they think of the Primary Industry Bank and the rates of interest that have been announced. The whole matter was projected in the 1975 election campaign. The Government did not give effect to its promise. But just prior to the 1977 election, legislation to establish the Bank was introduced. It was hurried through so that the Government could go to the people in 1 977 and say that it had established this particular Bank. Not long after the Government was returned to power- last session- it decided that it had been a pretty rushed sort of legislation and began altering the whole set-up of the Bank. The Government had been under pressure from the private banks right from the word go; in that those banks did not want another bank muscling in on their territory. So the Government established a board, the majority of whose members come from the private banks. Thus it is now called a bankers' Bank, and most rural producers realise that it is such. The Government altered the name of the bank from the Rural Bank to the Primary Industry Bank. That was quite reasonable. The previous name was pretty confusing. Anyhow, it resulted in something that is just another bank, a bankers' bank, and I doubt that the rural producers will feel that they are going to get much out of it. 
In my own meetings with members of the United Farmers and Graziers Association, and the Stockowners Association, in South Australia I have been able to explain my views on this matter. Quite a number of them have agreed with me as to the value of this Bank; that it is merely another bankers' Bank; that the same thing could have been achieved by extending the franchise of the Development Bank. That bank is already a rural bank in the sense that quite a large percentage of its lendings are in rural areas. If you were to take away the lender of last resort provision you could use that Bank to give extended credit to rural producers. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  mention the amalgamation of unions. The union he was condemning, the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union, is an amalgamation of about five different unions. When we tried to introduce legislation to facilitate union amalgamation colleagues of the honourable member saw fit to oppose that proposition. I did not intend to speak today about roads because I had something to say on the closure of railway lines. But I am prompted by a couple of news items to do so. An article in Tuesday 's Adelaide  Advertiser  states: 
The NT Chief Minister,  Mr Everingham,  yesterday urged Central Australian business men to boycott trade with SA until the SA Government upgraded about 800 kilometres of the Stuart Highway. 
He said the highway from the NT border through the centre of SA was in total disrepair . . . 
The Chief Minister said the Central Australian market was worth about $70m a year to SA. 
For that sort of money Central Australians deserved an adequately-surfaced highway. 
I agree with his last comment. He went on to say that central Australian business people should be looking to the eastern States. If  Mr Everingham  is looking at anyone he should be looking at the members of the present Government. He should refer back to a telex in which certain promises were made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  That telex was sent to the Mayor of Alice Springs just prior to the last election. It was carried in a big half page newspaper advertisement last May. It states: 
The Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, has, however, firmly committed the Country/Liberal Party Government to commence work on the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway in 1 978. 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder M.P. and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff, I believe it necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. 
This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the SA Government as part of the National program and for allocation at their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to up-grade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
Of course since that statement was made the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has been reneging on or shying away from the commitment that was given by his colleague. Last May at a meeting the Minister met members of both sides of the chamber and various interested business people and it was suggested that more money be allocated to South Australia so that it could prooceed with work on the Stuart Highway. The Minister refused to allocate any additional finance. The only suggestion he could come up with was that South Australia should prune some other program to allow money to be spent on the Stuart Highway. The northern part of South Australia has a number of very bad roads. The Minister was virtually saying that the programs which were being carried out in that area should be stopped so that money could be diverted to the Stuart Highway instead of a special allocation being made to South Australia to complete the road as was promised in the election campaign. 
I was intrigued by something which appeared in today's Adelaide  Advertiser.  Following the meeting mentioned the South Australian Minister and the Commonwealth Minister agreed to have their officers meet to decide what programs could be pruned. The South Australian Minister agreed to the pruning of expenditure in excess of over $900,000. Today 's  Advertiser  states: 
The extra Sim allocated by the Federal Government for the Stuart Highway would be enough to build only about 33 kilometres of the Port Augusta Woomera section,  Senator Jessop  (South Australia) said yesterday. 
The extra allocation was announced in Parliament last week by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon. 

 Senator Jessop . . . said some Government members believed a more substantial sum would be needed in subsequent years '- 
The report goes on, but the inference is that the Federal Government has allocated an additional $lm to the Stuart Highway. It certainly has not. The amount of $lm which will be provided to commence work on the Stuart Highway this year has been taken from other allocations made to South Australia. This has meant that other important road works in that part of South Australia are being pruned to allow work on the Port Augusta- Woomera section to commence. I feel that the Government announcement is misleading. The Government certainly has not made any additional finance available. 
The main point of my speech, although I have used half of my time now talking about roads, relates to the closure of the South Australian country railway services. Many services already have been affected. Passenger services have been cut in many areas. Two lines in my electorate, the Wilmington-Gladstone and the PeterboroughQuorn, have been recommended for closure. Two committees have been established by the Government to examine the viability of these lines. I feel that both committees have looked at the closures purely from an economic point of view and have recommended their closure. They obviously have not taken into account the social factors, the effect on employment and so on. Railway action committees have been trying to keep these railway lines open. They have brought forward some very strong points which have been put to the government committees. I will mention a few. No form of transport can carry bulk items like a railway. The action committee points out that the retail cost of fossil fuel is escalating and as time goes on it will become dearer and dearer. Any figure which applies now will not be correct in a few years time. The cost of road transport, which uses most fossil fuel, will get higher and higher. The increase in road traffic which will occur because of the closure of these railway lines will place a greater strain on roads which already are not up to standard. On the October long weekend many cars used the highway in the area of these two lines to travel to the Flinders Ranges. The road finished up in bad condition as a result of the increased traffic. The closure of the railway line will have many social effects. The South Australian Minister for Transport has not agreed to the closure of these lines. He has asked that the matter, in accordance with the relevant Act, should go to arbitration. Clause 9 of the Railway Transfer Agreement provides: 
1 ) The Australian Minister will obtain the prior agreement of the State Minister to- 
any proposal for the closure of a railway line of the non-metropolitan railways; or 
) the reduction in the level of effectively demanded services on the non-metropolitan railways, and failing agreement on any of these matters the dispute shall be determined by arbitration. 
The arbitrator shall, in addition to the factors referred to in sub-clause (2) of Clause 23, take into account the level of public demand and the need for the railway line and services referred to in sub-clause ( 1 ) of this clause. 
Clause 23 relating to arbitration in the Agreement provides as follows: 
1 ) Where a reference to arbitration is provided for in this agreement the matter under reference shall be determined, as soon as practicable, by an independent arbitrator acceptable to Australia and the State. 
The arbitrator shall in his deliberations take into account, amongst other things, economic, social and community factors. 
The last three matters that are contained in the Agreement and which have to be considered by the arbitrator are important. The Minister has agreed that the lines which go through rural areas and which carry superphosphate, wheat, and general goods will not be closed prior to the coming harvest. That at least will get these people through the year. The committees that have been formed to keep these railway lines open have asked that the railway lines be kept open for a further five years to allow consideration of the economic position. A matter mentioned by one of the action committees was that a recent economic study of the lines was conducted during drought conditions and as a result revenue earned by the railway was abnormally low. These areas have had three years of drought. It is quite obvious that the revenue from the railway lines in that period would be very low. The committee goes on to say: 
We feel that if this line has been earmarked for closure, further economic studies should be conducted especially over a period when seasonal conditions are favourable. We request that any thoughts of closing the line be deferred for five years and that in this period the economics of the line should be fully and honestly studied and considered by both the Federal Minister for Transport and the Australian National Railways Commission. 
I ask that the Minister for Transport take those points into consideration. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
1 ) What sum has been paid out to employees of Australian National Railways under Commonwealth employees compensation legislation as a result of loss of hearing due to their employment. 
) How many employees have been so compensated. 
What classifications of employees have been affected and how many have there been in each classification. 
How many employees have been supplied with hearing aids and at what cost. 
-Tonight I wish to say a few words about the situation that now obtains in the city of Whyalla within the Grey electorate. At present about 1 ,950 people are out of work, many of them being tradesmen from the shipyards which were formerly in operation in Whyalla. There are, of course, many young people among the approximately 1,950 people out of work. I was rather touched a few weeks ago by a letter that I received from two such young people who wrote to me explaining their situation. They are both at an age where they are not entitled to indexation increases in the unemployment benefit. The letter was such that I was able to send it to the local newspaper to explain the situation that these young people are facing. I also arranged for a copy of the letter to be sent to the relevant Minister. The problems set out in the letter are indicative of those facing many people in that city. 
About two years ago there were many early signs of problems ahead unless something were done about the shipyards. Fewer orders were placed with the shipyard and unless further orders were placed it was clear that there would be trouble with employment in that city. Organisations such as the Whyalla Combined Unions Council, the local council, the chambers of commerce and other interested people and organisations in the city of Whyalla arranged for deputations to come to Canberra to see whether they could get the Federal Government to do something to retrieve the position of the shipbuilding industry. Whyalla did not have the opportunity that was given to Newcastle. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that the Government would build two ships at Newcastle. However, he put such impossible conditions on the building of these ships that Newcastle did not get an opportunity even to consider the offer. A similar offer was never made to Whyalla. Of course, all the deputations were to no avail because the shipyards are now closed, with the resultant unemployment in Whyalla. 
I do not place all the blame upon the Government. To date the Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd has scraped out of this situation pretty well scot-free. It is quite obvious that it did not want to keep the shipyard open. It was the company's decision to close it. I do not think that it would have welcomed any government assistance to keep it going. It wanted to close the shipyard. Possibly its action was a little hard-hearted because a great percentage of the people employed in the Whyalla Shipyard were migrants brought from overseas to a decentralised city. Most had their fares paid by the Australian Government and were assisted into housing provided by the South Australian Housing Trust. A lot of government assistance went into providing a work force for BHP. It seems a part of our system that, when a company decides that it no longer wants to stay in that type of business and decides to close those operations, these people are all thrown on the scrapheap. There is no doubt of the assistance that has been given by the Federal Government and the State Government in providing the company with a work force. 
When it was obvious that the work force at the shipyard was going to be reduced, it was said that alternative employment could be found in the steelworks. It just happened that the steelworks went through a bad period but it picked up in that it received some further overseas orders with the result that more people could be taken on. One of the matters that was of great concern to a number of the unions covering the employees at Whyalla was that if a person suffered some injury while an employee of the shipyard, such as a damaged kneecap or some loss of hearing or anything that left that person with a physical handicap, when that person applied for a job at the steelworks, after having been put off from the shipyards, that person was denied a job because of that injury. The result is that at the present time many highly qualified tradesmen are out of work in Whyalla with not much hope of gaining employment at their particular trade in the very near future. Of course the Government must share a great deal of the blame because it did absolutely nothing for Whyalla. It was not prepared to place any orders with the shipyard. The State Government established a working party to examine alternative means of employment and suggested the establishment of a railway rolling stock mill at Whyalla to produce rolling stock for Australian railways. This would have required Federal Government assistance and the suggestion received a complete knockback from the Federal Government. There have been approaches for Ministers to visit Whyalla. 
-The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  mentioned that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  had been to Western Australia and that Western Australia had welcomed him. I can assure the Minister that when we get television in the outback areas of the western pan of South Australia we will issue him with an invitation to visit us and he will be made most welcome. But, of course, it is quite likely that by the time those areas get television the Minister will no longer be the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
I rose to speak in particular about the question of television in these outback areas. I have mentioned this matter on a number of occasions in this chamber. It is a matter that is continually a hot political question in the area that I represent, the western part of South Australia. It has been the subject of approaches and petitions; but to date, I am afraid, we have not received a great deal of definite information on the matter. Despite what has been done in the past, just prior to the last general election we did receive a Press statement on this matter from the present Minister's predecessor- and there is a pretty long story about that Press statement too- in which it was mentioned that translator or repeater stations would be established in six areas in South Australia up until 1981. But the Eyre Peninsula area was left out of that program. I issued a Press statement criticising the Government for omitting the Eyre Peninsula area. That area consists of towns of approximately 500 to 800 people. All the country in between is occupied rural areas. But they were ignored in this program. 
Prior to the election, a certain South Australian senator and the Liberal candidate who was opposing me came out with a statement that I was being a bit mischievous in this matter, that the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications had promised that television would be provided in the area within 12 months. After the election was over I spoke to the present Minister for Post and Telecommunications and he gave me some sort of an idea about the future plans for the area. It is quite obvious that the Government was well out when it said that this area would have television within 12 months. I am afraid that some rather embarrassing questions were asked about the Government's statement, and they are still being asked. It is quite obvious that it will be some years before television is provided. I took the matter up further with the present Minister and in answer to a question he said: 
. details of the total project for Eyre Peninsula cannot be given in precise terms as these have still to be determined and Government endorsement of the project given. 
The Minister went on to explain just where it was intended that those stations would be placed, but he word was that the precise terms were still to be determined. 
One of the local councils decided to take up this matter with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It received a reply from the Prime Minister which reads in part: 
You will appreciate that the project planned for the extension of television services to the Eyre Peninsula/Spencer Gulf area is not only a most costly undertaking (approximately $2m), but also involves the design of technical parameters which are of some complexity. 
In the current economic climate, it has been necessary to schedule the commencement of this project in the 1979-80 financial year, and it is anticipated that the necessary work will possibly carry through until mid- 1 982. 
So it will be about mid- 1982 before these areas receive their television stations. The people of Eyre Peninsula are still without television. They have been given the run-around long enough. They were completely left out of the program announced prior to. the election last year. When criticism was levelled at the Government for the omission of Eyre Peninsula from the announced program, a Liberal senator, realising the possible political effects of this on my Liberal opponent, gave an assurance that he had been given information by the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications that certain areas of Eyre Peninsula would have their television services within 12 months. As I have already shown, such information subsequently was found to be completely incorrect. 
The whole matter of these television services is still well up in the air. A program has been given by the Minister and by the Prime Minister, but the whole thing is still very vague. We now have the possibility of a communications satellite which will involve a long lead time should the Government adopt such a program. It could put the whole question of the provision of television services to Eyre Peninsula, where, I repeat, no such services exist at present, back into the melting pot. I trust that the Minister, when replying to this debate, can give the people of Grey who are now without television some definite indication of what the Government intends to do in the event of it either adopting the satellite system or relying upon the existing terrestrial system. When can the people of the area be given a definite program for the introduction of television service? Quite a lot has been said about the possibility of the use of a satellite system and the service it could provide to people in these areas. A report on this matter mentioned that if the Government decided to go ahead with this system a lead time of  6Vi  years would be involved. Assuming that it will take a couple of years to make a decision and 6'/i years to complete the project, this could throw the whole thing back into the melting pot. I hope that the Minister will be able to make a comment on that point because I can assure him that it is the hottest political question in this area. As I said, when the Minister comes over to South Australia to switch on the television stations, provided that he is still the Minister he will be made most welcome. 
There is one other matter that I would like to raise. It deals with something that has been causing some concern of late to those people who are interested in sport and who are used to seeing major sporting events televised by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. My complaint is that on an increasing number of occasions major sporting events have not been televised to country areas by the ABC. A most recent example was the Wimbledon tennis final- the world's most famous tennis final. It has been the usual thing in the past for the ABC to televise this event, but this year the country dweller was denied the privilege of seeing it because metropolitan-based commercial interests were able to obtain exclusive rights to the event-. When I raised this matter with the ABC I was informed that it was not prepared to pay the price required to those commercial interests. I was also informed that the decision had been made at the commissioner level. I do not know whether the figure was too high for the finance available to the Australian Broadcasting Commission or whether the price required from the commercial interests was exorbitant, but the end result was that country people for the first time were denied the opportunity to see the Wimbledon finals. Even the small commercial television channels were not able to show the event. When I inquired about the reason the simple answer was that the price required was beyond their sponsorship capabilities and was, to use their words: 'Way out of our league'. In relation to that point I refer to the Australian Broadcasting Commission annual report in which some comments are made on this matter of sporting rights. The report states: 
The rising cost of rights to provide coverage of major sporting events on television continues to concern the Commission. Competition from commercial television stations is now much stronger than before. 
The ABC is endeavouring to hold costs in this matter as in all other areas of its activities. For this reason, the ABC's ability to secure the rights to televise major national and international sporting event, to an Australia-wide audience is at growing risk. 
The effect of this process is that the ABC is subject in, for instance, the case of the 1978 Wimbledon tennis championships to criticism for not televising events in some States and many country areas not covered by the commercial television networks when they purchase exclusive Australian rights. 
The Commission's position on this matter was stated in our last Report to Parliament. We hope that, as a result of submissions made at ministerial level, early action will be taken to preserve the ABC's ability to televise the major sporting events on an Australia-wide basis, as an important part of the national service. 
The people in those areas certainly have the same hope. Surely the powers that be should have some authority to ensure that country people have the privilege of viewing such events. After all, if they are lucky, they may have an 
ABC service and a commercial channel to watch. But many have only the ABC. This applies not only to television but also to radio. As was mentioned earlier, many have no service at all. Whilst I appreciate that sporting bodies want to maximise any financial gain from the telecasting of particular sports, I hope that they will also give consideration to the non-metropolitan dwellers. They live in areas which have produced a disproportionate number of our top class sports men and women. I hope the Minister will take this matter seriously and discuss it with the interests involved. I feel that the country dwellers are missing out badly when compared with their city cousins. The city dwellers have four television stations which they can watch. One is an ABC station and the other three are commercial stations. As I mentioned earlier, in the fortunate country areas there may be one ABC station and one commercial station. In many areas there is only the ABC and in other areas there are no stations at all. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Last night during the adjournment debate I spoke about the problems facing the city of Whyalla. Of course honourable members are confined to only five minutes' speaking time during the adjournment debate and last night I ran out of time. I was saying that this Federal Government had not done much to try to help this city. Perhaps I could recap some of the things that the Government has not done to help. In the first place, it was not prepared to do anything to assist the shipbuilding industry in that area. The South Australian Government established a working party to investigate other areas in which workers could be provided with alternative employment in the event of closure of the shipyards. Of course this Government rejected that concept, too. 
Responsible people in Whyalla endeavoured to get Ministers to visit that city so that they could put their case to them. But what happened? A former Minister, now  Sir Robert  Cotton, had promised to go to Whyalla and have discussions with the town council but he was shifted to other areas. The present honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  took over his portfolio. He did eventually visit Whyalla and while he was very sympathetic the final result was that the Federal Government decided that it would not support the submission of the South Australian Government working party for the provision of a railway rolling stock plant at Whyalla to provide services for that area. Taken all round, the people in the area got very little support from Liberal Party politicians and from the Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
Last year, a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence brought down a recommendation with regard to the shipbuilding industry. It recommended that the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards be retained as a defence back-up. The Whyalla city council invited senators from both sides to visit Whyalla to discuss this recommendation with them. Three Australian Labor Party senators, three Liberal Party senators, the State members and I turned up at that meeting. At the meeting all senators agreed that they would support a move in the Senate for the adoption of the report. But I am afraid that when this matter was brought on for debate in the Senate the Liberal Party senators not only voted to gag the debate but also voted against the proposition. They turned their backs on what has happened in that area. 
The State Government has been doing its  utmost to try to  assist. It has agreed to the establishment in the area of a clothing manufacturing plant which has provided employment for quite a number of women. It has been open only a short time but it has filled a little part of the gap. Of course, that certainly does not involve all the problems. One of the hopes for the area is the development of other industries. One industry in particular is listed among those to be considered by the Australian Loan Council here in a couple of weeks ' time. I refer to the Redcliff petrochemical project. This project will require the approval of the Federal Government for South Australia to borrow approximately $185m for the infrastructure of the project. We certainly hope that the South Australian Government will receive the approval of the Loan Council for this purpose. The main use to which Redcliff will be put will be to manufacture various chemicals out of the by-products of the Moomba-Gidgealpa gas fields. It will also help to overcome Australia's balance of payments problem. It is estimated that the products of the petrochemical industry will save Australia $200m a year in overseas payments. Unless something like this happens the wet gas coming out of the Moomba gas field will flare off into the atmosphere. Unless something is done to utilise that resource it will be gone forever. I know that the operators on the field are very anxious that this resource should not be wasted and that it should be utilised. It can be utilised if the Redcliff project commences. The Redcliff project will also assist in overcoming unemployment problems. Workers can be transported from Port Pirie, Port Augusta or Whyalla- particularly from Whyalla where there is a high rate of unemployment. Work can be found in that area for those unemployed people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the chamber a couple of weeks ago I took the opportunity of making some comments on the present Commonwealth employees compensation legislation. I was pretty strong in my condemnation of the rates that were paid to long term recipients. An employee who is off work after six months receives $80 a week, $21 for his wife and $10 for each child. Since I raised this matter I have received a reply to a question I asked of the Minister concerned. He said that the Government at this stage does not intend to adjust its rates of compensation. So these people will go for many years without any adjustment to a miserable rate of compensation. 
I want to refer to a chap who has been in receipt of long term compensation. I will point out what happened to him and what I think is a clear anomaly. In January 1976 the chap, a wage employee with the then Commonwealth Railways, suffered a back injury at work in carrying out his duty. But because of certain circumstances the Commonwealth Compensation Commissioner did not accept liability for the injury straight away. The employee applied for compensation but the matter flowed back and forth between the Commissioner in Canberra and the Commonwealth Railways compensation officers. The claim took approximately 20 months to be fixed up. Of course with a back injury the man was in extreme pain and discomfort. He was receiving no money in the form of compensation. He applied for assistance to the Department of Social Security and received a benefit until the Commonwealth Commissioner finally agreed to accept liability for his claim. The employee then received compensation payments. Of course he had been receiving social security payments before that. 
After it was agreed that the Commonwealth Compensation Commissioner would accept liability an adjustment was made between the amount the employee had received in social security benefits and the amount that he was entitled to as compensation. That took some time to work out. There was a lot of correspondence between the Commonwealth Railways- now the Australian National Railways- and the Department of Social Security to calculate the amount. Finally, after 20 months he received an adjustment which was the difference between the amount he had received in social security payments and the amount he was entitled to as compensation because of lost wages during the 20 months involved. When he received his money it was not in the form of a lump sum payment. It was an adjustment made in the weekly compensation payment for lost wages which he would have received. So it could not be classed as a lump sum payment. 
Last year of course he had to fill out an income tax return. I repeat that he was injured in January of one year and the compensation claim was not resolved until the latter part of the next year, approximately 20 months later. So it covered three taxation years. When he submitted his taxation return last year the amount that he had received in compensation for the 20 months that he had been off work was treated as being earned in one year. Because of that this employee was taxed at a much higher rate than normally he would have been. He had already suffered during that time by having a very low income while waiting for the compensation and when the compensation was paid his income was adjusted to another low income. He suddenly found that the income adjustment was taken as being earned in one year although it was actually earned over three taxation years. To me this is a glaring anomaly in the taxation system. 
This man came to see me. I took the matter up with the Taxation Office, which referred the matter to Canberra. The answer from Canberra was that the experts had talked the matter over and decided that the amount had to be accepted as income earned in one year. This wage employee was on an extremely low income, with responsibilities. He received money that in normal circumstances he should have received probably 1 8 or 19 months previously. Because he received the amount in one hit he was taxed at the highest rate. I consider that he was very unjustly treated. This is something that should be looked at by the taxation people. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 September 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the reduction in staff at the weapons research establishment at Woomera, South Australia, since it was decided to place the facilities on a care and maintenance basis. 
How many employees have been found alternate Commonwealth Government employment. 
How may (a) have been retrenched and (b) have resigned. 
What is the anticipated staff ceiling for Woomera when it is on a full care and maintenance basis. 
I thank the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and the honourable member for McMillian  (Mr Simon)  for cutting their remarks short to enable me to say a few words. In his second reading speech on the State Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said that the amount available this year has increased by almost 7 per cent. In fact, the figure is 6.9 per cent. When referring to the national road network, he stated: 
The additional moneys which this Bill provides have in general been allocated among road categories pro rata to the existing allocations. This will effectively ensure that the priorities inherent in those allocations are maintained. There has been a slight departure from the pro rata approach in the case of South Australia. The indexation adjustment that would normally have been added to the National Commerce Roads category has instead been applied to the National Highways Construction category. This has been done to assist the State in meeting the Commonwealth's request that work to the value of Sim be undertaken on the Stuart Highway during 1978-79. 
I will confine my remarks to the Minister's reference to the Stuart Highway. It appears to us that the Minister is biased against South Australia in relation to the Stuart Highway. He has continually been opposed to the need for the Commonwealth Government to accept the full financial responsibility for that highway with the result that not much has been done other than the maintenance carried out by the South Australian Government and what it has done in previous years from its own road allocation. It is essential that this Government accepts full responsibility for ensuring that this project does go ahead. 
If we look at Schedule 2 to the States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill we see that the allocation to South Australia this financial year for the construction of national highways is $16. 133m. Two years ago South Australia received $ 17.2m, which means that over that period there has been a big drop in the allocation. Two years ago it was said that the additional money was allocated to South Australia to complete that other bugbear of a road at that time, the Eyre Highway. Now that highway is completed, but South Australia is still faced with the problem of the Stuart Highway. If it was good enough two or three years ago to allocate additional money under the national roads program introduced by the Labor Government, it is good enough now to make an additional allocation so that this work on the Stuart Highway can proceed. 
The Stuart Highway certainly means a lot to many people in the northern part of South Australia, but when we look at the situation we find that there are only two towns of any sizethat is, the Woomera rocket range town, Woomera village, and Coober Pedy in the centre of the opal fields- along the highway. Although the people there are entitled to good roads as much as anybody else, this highway is more important to the people of the Northern Territory than it is to people in South Australia. This places more emphasis on the need for the Federal Government to accept its responsibility. The vast majority of the South Australian population is located in the south-eastern corner of the State, which does make the allocation of funds for development in that State a bit complex. We had problems with the Eyre Highway. When the previous Liberal-Country Party Government was in office I raised questions asking why, when South Australia was allocated only so much money, it should allocate money for the Eyre Highway. At that time the Minister and the Government were expecting South Australia to deny funds to roads that serviced that State and to provide money from its allocation from the Federal Government under the legislation that existed then to provide a main road to Western Australia and a main road to the Northern Territory. Again I say that it is about time that the Federal Government accepted full responsibility for this type of development. 
Last May a deputation, comprising businessmen, senators from both sides of politics,  Mr Virgo,  the South Australian Minister of Transport, and I approached the Federal Minister for Transport. It was to no avail because the Federal Minister would not agree to allocate additional funds to South Australia. That was despite the fact that, prior to the last general election, a telex relating to the Stuart Highway was sent by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to the Mayor of Alice Springs, which read as follows: 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder, M.P., and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff, I believe it necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart  Highway. 
This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the National program and for allocation at their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to up-grade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
I think the present Minister for Transport has repudiated that statement on a number of occasions. Following that telex, the deputation I mentioned met with the Minister for Transport last May. As I said, the deputation comprised senators from both sides of politics, business people from Alice Springs and from Adelaide, the South Australian Minister of Transport and me. All that we could get out of the Federal Minister was that South Australia should reassess its priorities for the allocation of funds. What the Minister was saying was that South Australia, in order to allocate finance for the Stuart Highway, should cut back on money provided for its other road programs. 
A number of road programs are going on in South Australia. The State Government is locked into those programs. They are programs which the State Government cannot just stop and shift everything to the Stuart Highway. The State Minister of Transport was most adamant that he did not want to stop any existing programs because he was already locked into them; all the planning and design had taken place; the men were working on the job; and it would be just too stupid for words to stop those projects and to transfer everything to the Stuart Highway. On being pressured by the Federal Minister he finally agreed to allow his officers to discuss with Federal officers the possibility of considering how money could be pruned from various projects and that money allocated to the Stuart Highway. 
What happened? The Minister's officers met and were able to scratch out an extra Sim. Of course, that $lm does not represent an additional allocation to South Australia because it has come out of South Australia's allocation for other work. That is why we see in Schedule 4 to the Bill that the allocation in respect of the construction of national commerce roads for the year commencing 1 July 1977 was $ 1.3m, for the year commencing 1 July 1978 it is the same amount and for the year commencing 1 July 1979 the amount will remain the same. Money has been taken from existing programs to find this extra Sim to start work on the Stuart Highway. Then what do we find is happening? Although no additional money was provided to South Australia for this purpose, we find statements in newspapers, such as the one headed: 'Sim extra to be spent on highway'. The first part of the article states: 
The Federal Government will spend an additional $lm this financial year for construction work on the Stuart Highway and work on the 50 kilometre gravelled section between Port Augusta and Woomera will commence forthwith. 

 Senator Don Jessop,  Chairman  of the Government Subcommittee on Transport reports that Federal Government members welcomed the announcement made in Parliament recently by the Federal Minister for Tranport,  Mr Nixon. 
That is a distortion of the truth because no additional money has been allocated to be spent on the Stuart Highway. All that has happened is that money is to be taken from allocations for other road projects to provide that Sim. Following the visit last May to the Minister by the deputation comprising the various people I mentioned earlier, there was a bit of a change of heart by some members of Parliament from the Liberal Party of Australia who were present. After the meeting was over, they were prepared to sign a letter from which I shall quote a section. Previously these people were placing the blame, for no work going on in regard to the Stuart Highway, on the South Australian Ministers. Following the visit by our deputation a letter, signed by members and senators from both sides of politics, was sent to the Minister for Transport. They stated in part of the letter: 
The South Australian Government has spent a further $ 1 8.79m over the last 4 years on the State National Highway Program, and it is reasonable to expect that this should be reimbursed, provided it is spent on the Stuart Highway. 
They were prepared to accept what was put forward by the South Australian Minister,  Mr Virgo,  namely, that South Australia had been spending on national highway programs money from its own resources.  His  submission was that at least South Australia should get some recognition for that and should be allocated additional finance so that money could be spent on the Stuart Highway. I do not think that the people who wrote that letter, to the Minister for Transport, which was signed by  Senator Jessop, Senator Bishop, Senator Young  and me, have got very far with that letter. 
Ever since we wrote the letter the Minister has been quite adamant that no additional funds will be provided. What this means is that the $ 1 m has been scraped off other jobs at the expense of those jobs. In particular, the road from Hawker to Marree certainly will be held back, although some work will proceed on that job this year, because of that Sim cut-back on road programs. These projects are important and many roads in the western and northern part of South Australia require attention. Most of them are in my electorate. We feel quite strongly that those roads which serve many areas of population in that part of South Australia should not be denied being brought to a decent standard because money has had to be pruned from the amount allocated to make those roads decent in order to provide money for the Stuart Highway. 
That highway certainly is the responsibility of this Government. It is about time that it accepted its national responsibility. Legislation which was introduced by the Labor Government in 1 974-75 clearly laid down that responsibility. That Government accepted full financial responsibility for roads declared to be national highways. It is about time that this Government accepted that fact, took up its full responsibility and provided the money that is required instead of doing what it is doing now and cutting allocations back to the bone. Every time somebody mentions the Stuart Highway the first person people want to turn on is the State Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo.  For 11 of the past 13 years a Labor government has been in power in South Australia. I know what the State Government has put into roadworks during that period in the area that I represent. There is not a major town in the western part of the State now not connected to a sealed road, although in the north western part that is not the case with respect to the Stuart Highway. Nevertheless, the State Government can be quite proud of what it has done in the provision of sealed roads. 
It is up to this Government to play its part and ensure that sufficient finance is allocated to the Stuart Highway. It should not cut other programs to provide the money. It should find additional money in line with the promise it made to the people of Alice Springs prior to the last election that additional money would be found so that this work could be carried on. It is about time the Government assumed its responsibilities and got on with the job. If the Commonwealth Government provides the money, the South Australian Government can do the job. But it cannot be expected to deny its own roadworks programs and redirect all that money into the Stuart Highway. It is about time that politics were removed from this project. Some Liberal Party representatives who pay a bit of attention to my area jump from pillar to post and have changed their stance on this issue on a number of occasions. When the deputation came here last May its members tipped the bucket on  Mr Virgo.  When they came out of the meeting they took a completely different stance. 
I conclude by calling on this Government to take the bull by the horns, to take up its responsibilities under the national roads legislation and to provide the additional finance to South Australia to enable it to complete the Stuart Highway and give the people of the Northern Territory a decent sealed highway. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-There are a few comments I would like to add - 
-The amendment moved by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  which I seconded, states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Bill takes no account of the Prime Minister's 1977 election promise to provide through the Primary Industry Bank long term credit at concessional interest rates'. 
The amendment mentions the promise that was broken by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This Bill will allow the Government to use income equalisation deposits to provide funding for the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. I think the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  mentioned some of the problems involved, including the fact that probably insufficient finance has been provided to cover the needs of this Bank. As a point of interest, depositors of income equalisation deposits receive 5 per cent interest. The anomaly is that they can then borrow their money back at either 10 per cent for up to $100,000 or 12 per cent for over that amount. In referring to the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Parramatta who referred to the political exercise that has been carried out with this legislation, I think it would pay us to retrace its steps. 
Prior to the 1975 election the Prime Minister stated that he would introduce a rural industry bank. In 1977 when he decided to go to the people 12 months before time, after saying that he believed that the Government would have three years in which to right matters in Australia, he gave another promise because the Government had not introduced the bank in the two years in which it had already been in office. He said that it would introduce legislation to provide a bank that would offer concessional rates of interest. That was to be called the Rural Industry Bank of Australia. Surely it would have involved only common sense at that time to realise that already there was a Rural Bank of New South Wales and a Rural Industry Bank in Western Australia. To call the new bank a rural bank was very confusing. Legislation was pushed through this Parliament just prior to the 1977 election in which a lot of fs were not crossed and i's not dotted. Incidentally, prior to that election the Prime Minister said that finance would be provided to rural producers at concessional rates of interest. We know how concessional those rates of interest are. The Government had done nothing in two years to honour its 1975 promise. When it introduced legislation it was slipshod and did not contain what was needed to meet the situation. 
Following the return of the Government in 1977 it suddenly woke up to some of the matters that were wrong with this Bank. Firstly, the name was wrong because of its confusion with the other two banks that I have mentioned. The Government decided to call the new bank the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. Other alterations were made, for example, the way in which the Bank would be controlled. Further legislation was introduced to set up the controlling body to run the Bank. It is quite obvious that, under pressure from the private banks, control was handed over to those private bank interests. Of the 12 people on the Bank's board, eight come from the banks. Of those eight people the majority come from the private banks. The Government has virtually handed the Bank over to private interests. Concessional rates of interest were definitely promised prior to the 1977 election. I know how people in rural organisations were shocked when the rates were announced. They had been led to believe that when the words 'concessional rates of interest' had been used they meant genuine concessional rates of interest. I do not think anyone could say that 10 per cent and 12 per cent- or 10V6 per cent and  2Vi  per cent, as they were originally- are concessional rates of interest. The farming organisations tried to find out from the Government what the rates would be. They could not find out. Last June I asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who was the Acting Prime Minister at the time a question about the rates of interest. In the final part of his answer he stated: 
However, the Government has implied and suggested from the beginning that it would hope that the Primary Industry Bank of Australia would make available long term funds at interest rates set at approximately the same level as for overdraft accommodation on similar amounts of money. 
That was the first time that an indication was given as to what those rates of interest would be. I have heard honourable members from the other side say how the rural organisations have welcomed this Bank. Quite a few rural organisations are in my electorate and I have spoken at some of their meetings. I remember attending a particular meeting where I discussed the question of the interest rates of the Primary Industry Bank. The  president  of that organisation followed me and backed up everything I said. Although honourable members opposite say that primary industry organisations have accepted this Bank, that certainly has not been indicated to me. They look forward to gaining the finance but not at the interest rates which were promised to be concessional but which certainly have not finished up being concessional by any stretch of the imagination. Although the Government last week announced that the interest rates would drop by 0.S per cent, some other interest rates also dropped. So the new rates could not be called concessional. One honourable member from the other side said that the Government did not promise low rates of interest; all it promised were concessional rates of interest. I think that overdraft rates are not concessional rates of interest. 
Of course the alteration that took place put the whole control of the Bank into the hands of the private banks. The rural producer cannot go directly to the Primary Industry Bank; he must work through existing organisations. When one looks at the whole matter one wonders just what advantage for them there is in the Bank. Other areas of finance probably could have been expanded to allow the lending of money by existing interests. I have some brochures here. One is from a bank and deals with funds provided to primary producers. It states that the bank makes loans to rural industry for purchase and development of farm properties; farm improvements; purchase of plant; the holding together of a farming enterprise upon the death of a farm proprietor; repayment of unsuitable short-term private mortgage debts and similar obligations. 
It goes on to refer to the fishing industry and states that the bank makes loans for: purchase and construction of or improvement to fishing vessels; purchase of gear and equipment; repayment of debt on fishing vessels arranged on unsuitable terms. 
In referring to the forestry industry, it states that loans are made available for development which will lead to increased production or improved efficiency. 
It then goes on to talk about business undertakings. That brochure comes from the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia. If we compare it with the brochure that is supplied by the Primary Industry Bank, we find that a lot of the purposes for which loans are made by the Primary Industry Bank could have been accommodated by the Development Bank. I understand that the Development Bank at the time was hotly opposed to the establishment of the Primary Industry Bank because it would just create another banking institution. The Development Bank is mainly a rural industry bank because I understand that 74 per cent of its loans are made to rural producers. By extending its charter so that it could fulfil the purposes which the Primary Industry Bank now purports to do, the Commonwealth Development Bank could have been used to carry out that job. 
I do not intend to take up all of my time. I fully support the member for Parramatta 's amendment. I feel that a political exercise has been carried out throughout the introduction of the Primary Industry Bank. A promise was loosely given in 197S. Legislation was rushed through this House to give effect to that promise in 1977. The legislation was drafted very loosely and was full of loopholes. Further legislation was introduced in May of this year which tried to close some of those loopholes. The Primary Industry Bank is not a primary industry bank at all; it is a bankers' bank. It has no advantage in that the farmer cannot borrow directly from the 
Bank; he has to go through his normal institution. In my opinion the amendment which con.demns the Government for the political manoeuvring that took place should be supported. Whilst the Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill, it draws attention to all the political machinations that went on in the establishment of this bureaucratic organisation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
What is the latest information available to the Government regarding the mineral deposits at Roxby Downs, South Australia, and their potential exploitation. 
-I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to his reply to a question without notice from the honourable member for Lalor last Wednesday in which he stated that a meeting between himself and the managing director of Stawell Timber Industries had been arranged directly by the company. I also refer the Minister to an answer given the following day by the Prime Minister in which the Prime Minister stated that he had approached the Minister in relation to helping Stawell Timber Industries. Will the Minister now answer the question he neglected to answer last week? Did the Prime Minister discuss the financial difficulties of Stawell Timber Industries with the Minister prior to that meeting? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
How many Australian National Railway employees and former employees whose injuries have resulted in absence from work for periods in excess of 6 months are in receipt of weekly compensation payments under existing Commonwealth compensation legislation which pays extremely low rates for employees in this category. 
What are the main types of injuries causing extended periods of incapacity to ANR employees. 
How many employees receiving compensation are (a) salaried and (b) wages staff. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
With reference to earlier information given by him that Commonwealth Superannuation Fund pensioners would receive their refund of surplus in September this year and contributors in December, can he give any definite information as to when the refund of the Fund 's surplus will take place. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
Has any consideration been given to suggestions from numerous quarters that the facilities of Australia Post be utilised as agencies for Medibank and other Government activities. 
Has any consideration been given to allowing Australia Post to be used as an agency for State Government activities such as car registration and licensing. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Has he had any further discussions with Telecom regarding concessions being made available to organisations such as the country fire services in South Australia and equivalent organisations in other States, by way of reduced telephone and landline rentals. 
If so, what have been the results of those discussions. 
Has consideration been given to the fire protection service these organisations provide to Commonwealth property, especially telephone lines, landlines, microwave links, rural automatic exchanges and other facilities operated by Telecom in rural areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the extremely crowded conditions under which employees of the Department of Social Security are required to work at the Whyalla SA, office of the Department of Social Security. 
If so, are there any future plans to provide adequate accommodation for the Department 's staff at Whyalla. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
If the monthly trends of the last 3 years in the value of exports, imports and invisibles continue, using trend une or regression analysis, what will be the value of (a) exports, (b) imports, (c) invisibles, (d) the balance of trade and (e) the balance of current account in (i) June 1979 and (ii) June 1980. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
How many of the older type homes owned by Austraiian National Railways in the immediate area of Port Augusta, SA, have been demolished over recent years. 
As these homes were on land already provided with services, but owned by ANR, what steps can be taken by ANR to release these building blocks to either individuals or possibly the South Australian Housing Trust so that they can be further utilised for building purposes. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Are there any plans by the Australian Army to utilise the Woomera area for military exercises, in a similar manner to earlier exercises involving Leopard tanks. 
Were earlier exercises involving Leopard tanks considered successful 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Was finance made available in 1976-77 and 1977-78 for the Asian Studies Curriculum Development Award for the granting of study awards to teachers for study overseas. 
Was  Mr R  Mutton, of Risdon Park High School, SA, granted an award and was this award subsequently withdrawn. 
Had finance been allocated for  Mr Mutton's  grant from the Asian Studies Curriculum Development Award. 
With the subsequent withdrawal of  Mr Mutton's  grant, for what purpose was the finance allocated to him used. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
1 ) How many towns in South Australia with an estimated population of over 1,000 are served by unofficial post offices. 
What are the towns, and what is the estimated population of each. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 September 1978. 
1 ) What discussions have taken place between himself and Telecom regarding concessions by Telecom to rural country fire services. 
What results have come from those discussions. 
-Will the Treasurer confirm or deny the validity of reports that the Government is seeking to prevail upon the trading banks to finance part of the first advance payment to wheat growers this year instead of continuing normal financing through the Reserve Bank's rural credit fund? If so, will the new financing arrangements involve higher interest payments by the Australian Wheat Board and lower final returns to wheat growers than would otherwise have been the case? Can he also advise the House whether these new arrangements will have the effect of restricting credit to other borrowers and pushing up the short-term level of interest rates? 
I refer to a matter that I have raised in this House on a number of occasions and it is one on which the Government cannot look back with any pride. I refer, of course, to the way in which the Government has treated its employees who are injured during their employment and are off work for more than six months. Under the present compensation legislation, an injured employee receives full pay for the first six months but after that his pay drops considerably. I have spoken on many occasions about this matter without any response at all from the Government. Last year I wrote to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  seeking a review of the payments that are made. The Minister replied that the matter would be reviewed in the context of the Budget. I placed a question on notice to the Minister last September and the Minister replied: 
In accordance with the usual practice, the rates of compensation were reviewed in connection with the annual Budget. Although no immediate increases are proposed, the honourable member may be assured that the position of long-term compensation recipients will be kept under close notice. 
That is all that is being done- it is being kept under close notice. What has happened in regard to this particular issue is that the Government has completely turned its back on its own employees who have been injured. Since 1974 there has been only one increase in the rate of compensation paid. That was granted nearly two and a half years ago and it is certainly a disgraceful rate in this day and age. A number of trade union organisations are taking up this matter, and I refer in particular to the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. Recently the Secretary of the Canberra branch commented on the matter. The Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations also has taken up this matter. I understand that a submission has been made to the Minister for Social Security but to date nothing has happened. 
I am particularly concerned about a Commonwealth instrumentality operating in my electorate- the Australian National Railways. It employs approximately 3,000 employees in the electorate and is one organisation with which I have a lot to do. I have expressed my concern on a number of occasions about the way in which people on compensation are being treated and, with a view to getting the latest information on this matter, in October last I directed to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  a question relating to the number of employees in this category, that is, persons who had been injured at work and were off on long-term compensation extending past six months and who had dropped to a fairly low rate of pay. I asked what were the main types of injuries, how many were in this category and whether they were salaried or wages staff. I found out that 14 employees and 40 former employees were receiving weekly compensation on this particularly low rate. Among those 54 employees and former employees the main type of long term injury was spinal injury. For example, 35 of those referred to in part ( 1 ) of the answer were so incapacitated. The answer went on to say that one former employee was salaried and the remainder- that is, 14 employees and 39 former employees- were wages staff. Most of these people worked for wages as fettlers, tradesmen, guards and the various other classifications in the Australian National Railways. 
The situation does not apply only to the people in the Australian National Railways. As in every other electorate in Australia many wage earners throughout my electorate are employed by organisations such as Telecom Australia, Australia Post, et cetera, and they are similarly affected by what happens. I feel that I have a special responsibility towards the Australian National Railways employees because there are so many of them in my electorate. As I mentioned, and as it says in the Minister's reply, the greatest number of injuries are spinal injuries. I know that many people on the Government side of the House feel that every time somebody goes on compensation he is bludging. I have seen many people come into my office bent up and crippled. To my way of thinking, no one can put on the type of back injuries which I come across. 
Perhaps I should mention the payments that are being made. At present, after six months on long term compensation, an employee receives $80 a week. He receives $2 1 a week for his wife and $10 a week for each child, which means that a man with a wife and two children receives $ 12 1 a week. It is about time that this Government had a close look at this matter and showed a little compassion, and introduced figures that were more in keeping with today's wage rates. It should set a decent figure in line with what has been done in quite a number of the States. Of course, to ensure fairness, whatever figure is established in the future should be indexed so that every six months the weekly payments can be adjusted. I know the Government has chopped pensions back to once-yearly adjustments. At least the workers in industry are getting some benefit from wage indexation. Surely the Government can establish some decent rate for people on compensation. 
When it appears that employees in this category may not be able to come back to work, their services are often terminated. Of course, this is done under a provision in the legislation. It gets the instrumentality out of paying any long service leave or any other entitlements applicable to an employee on the job. 
Perhaps a comparison can be made between the payments that are made by the Commonwealth and those that are made by the various States. The figures I have do not include any alteration that will take place because of the December 1978 quarterly cost of living adjustment. It is a fact that the present payments are well below an acceptable rate. Since the Government last decided to increase benefits the consumer price index has risen by 28 per cent. This is not counting the December 1978 quarterly increase. The minimum wage has risen by 25 per cent. Under Commonwealth legislation, in November 1972 the weekly benefit was $43 a week, which represented 84 per cent of the minimum wage. During 1973 or 1974-1 am not quite sure which year- the Whitlam Government introduced a new compensation Act which would have given reasonable payments but, of course, the Senate tossed that legislation out. The then Government did increase the amount to $57 a week, which represented 84 per cent of the minimum wage. Prior to the dismissal of the Whitlam Government by  Sir John  Kerr,  Senator Wheeldon,  who was then the Minister responsible, introduced legislation which would have increased the payment to $73 a week. That would have made it 91 per cent of the minimum wage. Of course, we all know what happened. People on long term compensation were also victims of Kerr's coup. The incoming Fraser Government waited another 12 months before it introduced compensation legislation. It set the - amount at $80 a week, which represented 83 per cent of the minimum wage. At present that $80 a week received by an employee after six months on compensation represents 67 per cent of the minimum wage. 
A comparison with the States shows that in Western Australia an employee under exactly the same conditions would have received full pay; in South Australia he would have received full pay; in Tasmania he would have received full pay; in the Australian Capital Territory he would have received $87.89 plus the consumer price index increase for December; in New South Wales he would have received $88.40 plus an increase in the average basic award; in Queensland the amount would have been $77.40 plus the national wage increase; and in Victoria he would have received $73 plus an extra $30, which I understand the State Minister has agreed to because there was a ministerial promise to raise the amount by approximately $30 because of movements in the average weekly earnings over a four year period. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In reference to the Redcliff petrochemical project in South Australia, is the Prime Minister aware of the great contribution such a project will make to the Australian balance of payments situation, stated to be in excess of $200m a year? Is he aware that the Redcliff project will use exclusively resources that are available in that area of South Australia for the production of caustic soda, ethylene dichloride, et cetera and will require no major imports? Is he also aware that failure of the Redcliff project to get the green light will result in a massive waste of Cooper Basin resources in a nation short of fossil fuels? Can he give the House an assurance that his Government will give every assistance necessary to enable the Redcliff project to proceed for the overall benefit of the nation? 
-A couple of weeks ago, I mentioned the need for the upgrading of lump sum compensation payments to Commonwealth employees. I feel that the Government should have a closer look at a number of other aspects concerning Commonwealth compensation. No alteration has taken place in this area since 1976. 1 note that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in answer to a question in the other House recently said that the Government would be having a look at this matter in the Budget. I certainly hope it does. 
I think that I should draw attention to the anomalies that exist. One of the anomalies, apart from the matter about which I spoke a couple of weeks ago, is found in respect of lump sum payments. The value of the Commonwealth lump sum payment in the event of death has been eroded by inflation. The amount is still behind that paid by a number of State compensation Acts. I hope that the Government has a close look at this aspect. At present some $25,000 is paid in the event of death of an employee. We find once again that these people were victims of what happened in 1975. The then Labor Government had legislation before Parliament to increase that amount to $28,000. That legislation went by the board with the sacking of the Labor Government. When the present Government introduced legislation 12 months later the lump sum payment was set at $25,000 which was $3,000 less than what the Labor Government was prepared to enact. The value of that $25,000 has now been eroded considerably. As I say, it is below the amount provided in a number of State Acts. 
The Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations recently made a submission to the Government regarding people receiving compensation. It referred to the need for lump sum payments to be paid at the rate applying when payment is actually made and not at the rate applying when death actually occurred. At present payments are made at the rate applying at the date on which the injury occurred. If a person who is injured and hospitalised for a lengthy period passes on as a result of that injury, compensation is paid at the rate applying at the time of injury and not at the rate applying at the time of death. I know of a number of cases where the Commonwealth questioned the right to compensation. A rather lengthy procedure takes place under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act. In one case a wife was paid finally for the loss of her husband two years after his death. The amount received was considerably less than she would have been paid if the payment had been made at the rate applying at the time of payment. The woman concerned had wanted to purchase a home. The difference in the amount was about $6,000. She was paid at the lower rate. This made it more difficult for her to purchase a home. I hope that this aspect is looked at. 
The definition of a de facto relationship in compensation cases has been worrying a number of unions. At the moment a de facto wife has to prove that she has lived with the deceased worker for three years on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis. The issue of the three year requirement has been raised in the Senate before. The Minister indicated that she would consider it. But again, to date, nothing has been done. 
The submission made by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations some time ago was that a three-year requirement of dependency should be replaced by a requirement similar to that for dependant females under the Social Services Act. Apparently the requirement under the Social Services Act is quite different from the requirement under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act. It was felt that making the Social Services Act and the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act compatible and having the same position applying to de facto wives in the event of death would be much fairer than the present situation. In quite a number of cases the Taxation Office has taken a quite different view in regard to de facto relationships from that taken under the Social Services Act. In this case, the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act takes a different view again from other Acts of the Commonwealth Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Before I call the honourable member for Bowman, I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that it is not consistent with the forms of the House for him to rise in his place seeking the call before the previous  speaker  has concluded his speech. I call the honourable member for Bowman. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) When will funds be made available to the Indulkana Community Council to allow that body to take over the services now provided by the South Australian Department of Community Welfare. 
Will the funds be made available during 1978-79. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the low weekly payments received by long term recipients of Commonwealth Government employees compensation whose injury has necessitated absence from employment in excess of 6 months. 
Is it a fact that low lump sum payments for death, specified injuries and the like compare unfavourably with payments made under some State compensation legislation. 
If so, will payments made under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act be adjusted to allow for loss of value of payments since the last amendment in September 1976. 
-The Council of the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement in South Australia recently announced that, due to insufficient funds being made available by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, it is no longer able to provide legal aid to all Aborigines for all matters requiring legal assistance. The Council of the Movement considers that, at its present level of funding, it is inevitable that legal aid for Aborigines will become inferior by comparison with legal aid provided to non-Aborigines. The Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement was founded in 1970 in response to a situation in which a majority of Aborigines appearing before the courts had no legal representation at all. This applied especially to those on minor charges. Unable to defend themselves they were gaoled in a disproportionately high number of instances. The Movement first applied to the Federal Government in 1972 for financial assistance to provide legal assistance to Aborigines and received a grant of $22,000. 
When the Australian Labor Party came to power in December 1972, it further funded Aboriginal legal services throughout Australia on an expanded basis such that the Aboriginal legal services could provide legal assistance to all Aborigines in all matters where assistance was required. For the period from 1973 to 1978, the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement in common with Aboriginal Legal Aid services throughout Australia provided free legal assistance to all Aboriginal applicants. During this period, thousands of Aboriginal people who had never had the facilities of a lawyer before were provided with legal assistance. The main reason why Aboriginal people in the past have not had legal representation is one of cost. For that reason, the assistance provided by the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement has been free. 
The need for free legal assistance has not changed. In a survey of the cases handled for Aboriginal clients in the first 1 8 months of operation of the movement's Port Augusta office, which is around the corner from my office, 97.5 per cent of Aboriginal applicants for legal aid were unable to afford to pay for their lawyers. From 1973 onwards, more Aboriginal people began to know about the Movement and to utilise it. In addition the Movement expanded to offer similar services in country areas. This resulted in a surprisingly, steadily increasing demand which necessitated a proportional increase in the staff. In 1973 the Movement started with a full time staff of three and handled 415 cases. In the ensuing years it handled the following number of cases: 1974-75, 1,480 cases; 1975-76, 1,940 cases; 1976-77, 3,204 cases; and, in 1977-78, 2,500 cases. 
The Aboriginal Legal Rights movement now has a staff of 24 with offices at Adelaide, Port Augusta, Murray Bridge and Ceduna, all in South Australia. However, by comparison with the rapid increase in the number of cases for which the Movement has provided legal assistance over the last five years and the necessary increase in staff to provide such assistance, the level of funding from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has not increased appreciably since 1976- 77 as is shown by the following figures: 1975-76, $367,500; 1976-77, $410,000; 1977- 78, $410,000 and in 1978-79, $412,750. So, there has been no appreciable increase over the past three years. As a result of inflation and increased legal costs, the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement has been effectively granted less money since 1976-77. In the last two years, the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement has been struggling hard to handle an increasing number of cases on a decreasing budget. Regular pleas have been made to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to provide additional finance but none has been forthcoming. The Executive Secretary of the Movement in South Australia,  Mrs Ruby  Hammond, has stated that the Movement now has no choice but to make judgments on which matters it can and cannot provide legal aid assistance. For the first time since 1972, the Movement is unable to assist all Aboriginal applicants.  Mrs Hammond  further said that the Council of the Movement will be considering in the near future establishing priorities for the provision of legal aid. However, any setting of priorities will mean that someone has to miss out on legal aid, which is a matter of great concern. She said: 
We are extremely concerned about the serious cases which require the services of specialised or very experienced lawyers. We are just no longer able to pay for those cases for our clients. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) With reference to the National Communications Satellite System and the capacity of such a system to provide radio and television services to remote areas of Australia, not now served by such facilities, what effect will any adoption of the report of the Task Force have on already announced programs and timetables for the extension of services by conventional means to remote areas, such as Eyre Peninsula and the northern areas of South Australia. 
Can he give any indication as to when such a satellite system may be operating, if the report is adopted by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
In view of his earlier replies regarding the provision of 16 kilometres of free telephone line to subscribers to be connected to rural manual exchanges, in which he stated that Telecom had been requested to prepare a report on the implications of such a move, can he now state what arrangements have been decided between himself and Telecom. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) How many Aboriginal youths in the Electoral Division of Grey have received apprenticeships under the National Employment Scheme for Aborigines. 
In what (a) establishments and (b) trades is each to be trained. 
How many received apprenticeships in (a) Federal and (b) State Government instrumentalities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 March 1 979: 
How many apprentices have been taken on in each of the last S years, and in 1979 to date by the Northern Division of Australian National Railways, and in what trades. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
How many tradesmen have been employed by the Northern Division of Australian National Railways in the (a) metal and (b) building trades in each of the last5 years, and in 1979 to date. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 April 1 979: 
1 ) What have been the results of programs initiated by his Depanment to educate Aborigines on their voting rights and how to use them. 
In what areas have these programs been carried out. 
When can it be anticipated that such a program will be carried out in South Australia and, in particular, in the Aboriginal areas within the Electoral Division of Grey. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Does the Reserve Bank of Australia have any legal authority to instruct the Australian Wheat Board to sell commercial bills in order to reduce its Rural Credits Department overdraft? If so, what Act or regulation gives it that power? If not, why is the Board any more likely to comply with a Reserve Bank request than with the Government's request which it rejected last week? How can the Government force the Board to comply with Government policy, unless the Minister for Primary Industry instructs it to do so? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) How many young Aborigines in the Electoral Division of Grey have received apprenticeships under the national employment scheme for Aborigines. 
) In what establishments are the young Aborigines to be trained. 
How many received apprenticeships in (a) Federal Government and (b) State Government instrumentalities. 
In what trades are they to be trained and how many in each trade. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 April 1 979: 
In view of the decreased activity at the Woomera Rocket Range, will the restricted area of the range be reduced in line with present day requirements of that facility. 
Has there been any relaxation of conditions for entry to the restricted area for activities such as prospecting. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 April 1 979: 
1 ) Did the Australian National Railways Commission initially decide not to engage any apprentices in 1 979 and then subsequently change its position in this regard. 
If so, were the apprentices finally engaged within the existing staff ceilings applying to the Commission. 
Were the additional apprentices engaged under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training (CRAFT) Scheme by the Commission also within the staff ceilings. 
If so, does this exacerbate a serious shortage in many key classifications within the Commission, an instrumentality already handicapped by reduction in staffing in many sections. 
-Has the Minister for Transport received a corporate plan drawn up by the Australian National Railways Commission at the behest of the Minister to provide a means of reducing ANR deficits? If so, does the plan recommend massive reductions in staffing in all regions of the ANR, in particular in my own area of concern, the northern region of South Australia? Does the plan also suggest the closure of many country railway lines in South Australia and the curtailment of a number of services in that State? In view of reports of the content of the corporate plan and its adverse effect on railway services generally, on present staff morale and on the availability of employment within the ANR service, to what extent does the Minister intend to implement the plan? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 May1979: 
What were the operating (a) profits or (b) losses for the railway systems of (i) New South Wales, (ii) Queensland, (iii) Victoria and (iv) Western Australia in each of the last five years. 
-This afternoon in Question Time the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  a question dealing with apprenticeships. The Minister in his reply outlined some of the Government's programs. In an article in the magazine  Training Talkback,  which I understand is put out by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, the  Chairman  of the National Training Council,  Mr Derham,  comments on programs for trade training. The article reads: 
Apprentice intakes so far in 1 978-79 are down by about 7 per cent on the previous year, '  Mr Derham  said. 
This is a cause for concern at a time when employers are experiencing production bottlenecks and loss of orders because they are unable to recruit skilled tradesmen. 
Recent initiatives by the Commonwealth to increase its own apprentices certainly help and private employers must recognise that it is in their own interests to train more apprentices to provide the skills we will need for the future. 
With trade training the problem is the long lead times; if we don 't train now, we affect our supply of skills irreparably for the year to come. 
Further on in the same magazine the Minister is reported as saying: 
Another 230 apprentices will be taken on in Commonwealth establishments this year, in addition to the 1,200 already planned for 1979. 
This follows a Government directive to all Commonwealth Departments and instrumentalities to recruit sufficient apprentices in 1979 to meet their own tradesmen needs. Additional funds will be provided and additional instructors recruited as necessary. 
The Minister is reported in this magazine which is put out by the Department to be emphasising the need to train apprentices. The Minister referred also to the bottlenecks that are occurring at present and the effects of inflation. Although these sorts of comments are all right and we of the Opposition probably would not disagree with them, I would like to refer to action which has been taken by a Commonwealth Government instrumentality. As the Minister said, Government instrumentalities ought to take on more apprentices. I will refer to the position in the Australian National Railways Commission at Port Augusta. The ANR in 1974 took on 42 apprentices, in 1975 it took 43, in 1976 it was 40, in 1977 it was 43, in 1978 it took 48 and in 1979 it took 37. It will be noted that their was a big drop in the number of apprentices in 1979. It is the lowest intake in five years. This reduction started when the ANR decided to take on no apprentices whatsoever last. year. After second thoughts about the matter and following some pressure from unions and other interested bodies the ANR changed its mind and finished up taking on 32 apprentices for the year 1979. This was well below the figures for the previous year when it took on 48. 
My inquiries of the ANR on the reason for the big drop in the intake of apprentices and what its plans were regarding apprenticeships revealed that the ANR was considering taking on an extra 10 apprentices under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme. When I made further inquiries, although I was assured that 10 apprentices would be taken on only five were taken on. In that year only an additional five above the original figure of 32 agreed upon were taken on, so 37 apprentices were taken on compared with 48 for the previous year. It was the lowest figure for a number of years. Incidentally, the apprentices the ANR took on were included within the Commonwealth Government's staff ceiling, so the 37 apprentices were put on at the cost of other jobs. It was certainly a funny way of looking at it because the staff ceiling was reduced and apprentices had to be put on. 
 The ANR, which is a Commonwealth 
Government instrumentality, will pay for this decision in the future because in a few months' time a new power house will be commenced and probably in 18 months' time there will be a call for metal tradesmen. I remind honourable members that when the power house at Port Augusta was being built many ANR employees left the railways and took up better paid jobs at the power house. It can be anticipated that the same thing will happen again. The ANR and the main workshop at Port Augusta will be short of tradesmen. As a result the ANR will not be able to cope with the maintenance work necessary on the railway rolling stock, including theDiesel and electric locomotives. The ANR will pay the price in the years to come for its short-sighted policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
Have arrangements been made regarding the disposal of land owned by Australian National Railways at Port Augusta, S.A., now out of use following the demolition of numerous dwellings formerly occupied by AN R employees. 
-As a member representing an electorate which produces about 40 per cent of the wheat grown in South Australia I wish to make a short contribution in the debate on the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill. This year, of course, the wheat harvest in my electorate, as in all the southern part of Australia, was a whopper one. In the various areas to which I was able to travel I got an idea of just what the yield was. Everywhere much greater quantities of grain were harvested than had been harvested for a number of years. Of course, it was very important that growers had a good season because the area in which I travelled has had three years of very severe drought. In some areas the situation has been worse than in others, but in the last three years on the Eyre Peninsula the wheat crop and the yields from other grain have been down considerably with the result that the farmers in that particular area were in real trouble. The crop this year will, at least, be able to get them out of some of the problems which have built up over the last three years. It will help them pay off some of the debts that have accrued in that period. We hope that with the good start to this season and with a good y ar this year people can really get back on their feet again. 
I would like to refer to the two Bills we are discussing today, namely, the Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill and the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill. These two Bills, as has been said by every other  speaker  in the debate, allow the Government to cover the increased interest that will be paid by the Australian Wheat Board because the Government has forced it to go outside the Reserve Bank to the private banks to finance the first advance payments for this year. We can argue about whether the Bills in effect constitute a subsidy. I think the argument is probably a bit academic. The fact is that borrowings at any time by the Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank are made at concessional rates of interest. The Government this year, because of its problems concerning the money supply, dithered around and finally told the Wheat Board that it would have to go to the private banking sector to finance portion of the first advance payments. While it is academic whether the original Reserve Bank loans to the Wheat Board are a subsidy, the fact is that the private sector charges higher interest rates and then the Government picks up the tab. I feel that that is not academic. That is a subsidy. 
I am not saying that members of the Labor Party who are supporting these Bills are opposed to such a subsidy being paid. It appears to me that members of the National Country Party think that we are condemning farmers as soon as we mention the word subsidy. We are not. I wish those members would open their eyes and see things as they actually are. I believe that these payments, in effect, are subsidies. This situation probably was brought about by two factors. One relates to the massive crops harvested this year and the other to the misjudgment of the Government in the handling of those crops. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics anticipated the extent of the wheat crop last year. Although the crop when harvested was even greater than the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimated, the Government still had time to make the necessary arrangements. In January of this year, because of the big crop and the large first advance payments, the first advance payments by the Wheat Board to the farmers were suspended. I do not think that that can be denied. It was mainly brought about by the dithering of the Government. I asked a question of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  earlier in the year about what the Government intended doing. The answer was very evasive and was not clear and to the point. 
The Government obviously dithered about with this matter. Now the Reserve Bank and the Government have told the Wheat Board that it has to go to the private sector to obtain finance. Like my friend, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  said earlier, I hope that this action does not create a precedent. I hope that in future years when the Government gets into a bit of financial difficulty it will not say to the Wheat Board: 'Look, we cannot finance the first advance payments through the Reserve Bank. We want you to go to the private banking sector'. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  and the honourable member for Riverina traced the history of the wheat stabilisation scheme since it was introduced by the Labor Government. It is certainly one of the most progressive moves ever made in the rural industries. Every government since then, whether from this side of the fence or from the Liberal-National Country Party side of the fence, has realised the worth of the scheme and has extended it for the benefit of our wheat growers. It always amuses me that, when members of the Labor Party speak on rural matters, members of the National Country Party try to denigrate what the Labor Party is trying to do. At one time most of the wheat growing areas in Australia were represented by Labor Party members. I am sure that that day will come again. Members of the National Country Party who are always prepared to denigrate the attitude of the Labor Party to the rural industries do not seem to realise that their party is no longer a truly rural party. It gets a lot of its backing from the mining companies. It has moved from being a rural party to being a mining party. In the process the rural producers are being left behind. I could refer to a number of other matters to back up that statement. Since 1969 when I entered this Parliament quite a number of decisions have been made by Liberal-National Country Party members to the detriment of rural producers. For some reason or another those members seem to be able to con the farmers into believing that they are acting in their interests. 
One member of the National Country Party came into my electorate and talked about how his party was trying to get cheaper fuel prices for rural producers. No one bears more responsibility for current fuel prices than the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony).  He was the person who pushed so strongly for world parity prices. Members of the National Country Party are now going around the country areas trying to con people in the rural industries into believing that their Liberal colleagues, with the support of the Labor Party, are trying to deny cheaper fuel to rural producers. The leadership of the National Country Party has brought about the large increase in fuel prices, and farmers have to pay the same price as everybody else. It was hypocritical that members of the National Country Party voted for world parity prices when the Budget was debated last October. 
-I have listened to all the speakers in the debate. I think the remarks of quite a few have been astray. The debate has been pretty wide ranging. Anyway, these people are conning the people in the rural industries into thinking that everything the Labor Party does is against their interests. I have had National Country Party candidates stand against me at  two elections. On both occasions those candidates have saved their deposit by only a couple of hundred votes. Despite the fact that members on this side of the House are denigrated in the rural areas we are able to improve our votes in those areas. I said that I would not speak for very long. This side of the House supports the Bill and certainly rejects some of the criticism that has come from the National Country Party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
In view of the pressing need for aged persons accommodation in the Booleroo Centre area of South Australia, when can it be anticipated that Commonwealth Government assistance by way of subsidy, will be made available to the Mount View Homes for Aged Persons. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 May, 1979: 
In view of the pressing need for aged persons accommodation in the Port Augusta area of South Australia, when can it be anticipated that Commonwealth Government assistance by way of subsidy, will be made available to the A. M. Ramsey Homes for the Aged. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) How many organisations in the Electoral Division of Grey have applied for funding for the provision of homes for the aged under the Aged Persons Homes Act, what are the names of the organisations and in what localities are they situated. 
Which of these organisations have received assistance under the Act during the last 4 years, and what is the amount of assistance received by each organisation. 
My question is directed to the 
Prime Minister. In view of the growing number of broken promises, can the Prime Minister give an unequivocal assurance to the House that his promise to local government authorities to increase their share of personal income tax from 1.52 per cent to 2 per cent will be honoured or will it go the way of the other broken promises? 
-Tonight I wish to speak on a matter that I have raised in this House on a number of occasions. I refer to the sealing of the Stuart Highway. This matter has caused a lot of discontent for some time. This week we were very pleased to see the announcement by the South Australian Minister of Transport  Mr Virgo,  that in this year's Estimates he hoped to allocate $4.3m towards the commencement of the project. This has been a very sore point in South Australia. The South Australian Government and anybody else in South Australia who has shown a concern for roads has believed that this was a Federal Government responsibility. In 1974 the then Labor Government introduced a national roads program. Year after year the South Australian Government has requested additional funds so that the sealing of the Stuart Highway could proceed. But in the last three years the Federal Government has cut back in real terms the money provided for national highways. 

 Mr Virgo said that he intended to allocate $4.3m this year so that the work could be expedited. Last year, following a deputation of members from both sides of the House to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in an attempt to get additional funds, the Minister refused to grant them. All he could say to  Mr Virgo  was: You scrape up another $lm from somewhere'. To provide an extra Sim meant that  Mr Virgo  had to take that amount from other road programs. To get into line with the wishes of the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Virgo  did so. He allocated an additional $ 1 m which, of course, came from other programs. Certain work is now proceeding on the highway. 
When  Mr Virgo  announced his approach to the project it was announced that the Federal Minister for Transport would travel to Coober Pedy to look at the Stuart Highway. At the same time, he was to have a look at the new railway line being constructed to Alice Springs. However, it rained in that area last week. The Minister could not be set down. Of course, he did not see the worst of the road. They tell me that he flew over a short section of it. The aircraft landed at Woomera. The Minister drove a few miles out of Woomera and then back. I understand that he flew on to Darwin. The whole question of the Stuart Highway has been a sore point for quite some time. Prior to the last elections the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated in Alice Springs that the Federal Government would proceed with a program to provide money for this highway. That statement at Alice Springs was highlighted in an advertisement placed in the newspapers throughout Australia by the Road Transport Federation. It said: 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder M.P. and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff, I believe it necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. 
This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the National Program and for allocation al their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to up-grade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
That indicated that the Federal Government was prepared to recognise what  Mr Virgo  had been saying, that is that there should be a special allocation of funds for the Stuart Highway. But that statement was never honoured by the Minister for Transport. Last year a deputation consisting of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  some honourable senators and me met the Minister. Following that meeting a letter signed by three honourable senators from South Australia and myself was sent to him. It stated: 
The South Australian Government has spent a further $ 1 8.79m over the last four years on the State National Highway Program, and it is reasonable to expect that this should be reimbursed, provided it is spent on the Stuart Highway. 
As the Highway is currently estimated to cost approximately $64m, it is clear that unless more funds are provided it will take 20 or 30 years to complete at the proposed rate of spending. 
I think that everybody will be pleased with what the South Australian Minister has said. He now has to get permission from the Federal Minister - 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
1 ) In the opinion of this House, and in the interests of Australia generally, 
In regard to the problems facing Australia as a result of our lack of future fossil fuel resources, it is essential that greater effective use be made of our railway services to maximise our existing resources; 
The present Government policies will result in the downgrading of railway services in the Federal Government instrumentality the Australian National Railways; 
Government initiated staff ceilings have already resulted in large reductions in services and staff in ANR; 
) That the corporate plan drawn up by the ANR Commission at the behest of the Minister for Transport, if put into operation, will further downgrade railway services and result in a further reduction in staff by 25 percent; 
These Government actions will further lower the morale of ANR staff in the wages, clerical and professional sections in that system, and 
Implementation of the corporate plan will have a serious detrimental effect on traditional railway communities such as Port Augusta, Port Pirie, Peterborough and Port Lincoln, all within the Grey electorate, and 
) In view of our present energy position the House calls on the Government to reverse its present policies in regard to railway services. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Have negotiations taken place between Australia Post and the Non-official Postmasters Association regarding rates of pay and conditions of non-official postmasters; if so, what agreement was reached on the matters. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) What plans exist for Telecom to extend the provision of automatic telephone exchanges within the Electoral Division of Grey. 
Which manual exchanges will be replaced, and when will they be replaced. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) Will the Tarcoola/Alice Springs standard gauge railway be completed by the end of 1 980. 
If so, will the Australian National Railways run regular passenger services on that line to replace the historic 
Ghan passenger service now operating on the existing narrow gauge line to Alice Springs. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
Do the terms of the agreement arranged between the Australian and United States of America Governments on the operation within Australia of installations such as Nurrungar, Pine Gap and the North West Cape, allow US servicemen attached to those projects to undertake normal civilian employment in Australia during their off duty hours; if so, does this in any way contravene Australian migration restrictions on visitors accepting employment? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
What are the guidelines for allowing backbench Members of Parliament to travel on VIP aircraft. 
Were VIP aircraft used by the Minister for Transport on 24 May 1979 to pay visits to Coober Pedy, SA, and the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway now being constructed. 
) If so, who were the other passengers. 
Did the other passengers on board the aircraft qualify within the travel guidelines for VIP aircraft. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Which projects in South Australia have received financial assistance from the Decentralisation Advisory Board. 
) What was the nature and value of the assistance. 
What percentage of the total funds distributed by the Board have been made available in South Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that in 1976-77 Esso-BHP received approximately 70c profit per barrel of crude oU, after costs, taxes and other charges? Is it also a fact that during the first half of this financial year it will receive approximately $2.30 per barrel net profit? Is it true that, over this period, as a result of the Government's petrol pricing policy, the price of petrol to Australian motorists has doubled, but the profit per barrel of domestically produced oil has trebled? How does the Minister justify this rip-off from Australian motorists? 
-I should like to correct something that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  said in the latter part of his speech. He spoke about the unrealistic oil prices that applied during the Whitlam Government 's term of office from 1972 to 1975. The honourable member might be interested to know that the prices that applied at that time were the result of actions taken by the Gorton LiberalCountry Party Government in 1968 on prices paid for Bass Strait crude. 
This Government will be remembered for the number of promises it has broken. The newspapers have listed those broken promises on a number of occasions. It was interesting to see an article in the  National Times  a couple of months ago which listed these broken promises and the action that had resulted from them. Perhaps we could take the main issue facing Australia today- the question of unemployment. On 27 November 1975, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want to work. 
On 2 1 November 1 977 he said: 
Unemployment will fall from February - 
That is, February 1978- and keep on falling. 
We know what has happened to unemployment since that time. 
I am going to mention a few more. On 12 September 1978 the Prime Minister said: 
Inflation at an annual rate of  5  percent is within our reach by mid- 1979. It will go on falling under the policies of this Government 
We also know what has happened to inflation. The Government claimed that inflation would be running at 5 per cent; it now admits that it will be back to 10 per cent this year. On the question of health insurance, the Prime Minister said, on 27 September 1975: 
We will maintain Medibank, and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
We know what has happened to Medibank; it has been completely emasculated. That action is in complete contradiction to what the Prime Minister said in 1975. Again, on 27 November 1 975, the Prime Minister said: 
We will fully index personal income tax for inflation over three years. 
We know where tax indexation has gone. On 2 1 November 1.977, he said: 
We have ended the big tax rip-off. From February 1 further tax cuts will come in for every Australian wage and salary earner. From February 1, more than 225,000 lowincome earners will cease to pay any tax at all. And because we have reduced the marginal rate of tax, it's now worth working overtime again. 
The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 
We all know what happened in the 1978 Budget when the Government introduced the surcharge on taxation. Here is a report of another interesting promise: 
It (the coalition Government) will support wage indexation . . . Our reforms will maintain the purchasing power of wages and ease the pressure for excessive wage demands. 
We know that every time there is a case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Government is before the Commission asking it to ignore certain increases in the costs with which the ordinary worker is faced. In fact I understand that the Government has asked that any increases in cost of living because of government charges be ignored. I understand that it will even ask that any increases in the price of petrol be ignored. 
On 21 November 1977 the Prime Minister said: 
Interest rates have begun to fall- and they will keep on falling. 
On 6 December 1977 he said: 
Once the election is over, we will start to move to the consummation of a 2 per cent reduction in interest rates- and that means about $500 a year for someone on an average home loan. 
We all know what has happened to interest rates. They may have dropped by 1 per cent, but they have gone up half a per cent since. These are just some of the promises which this Government has not kept. On 15 March 1977 the Prime Minister said: 
We are committed to take policies out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
We know what happened as a result of the last Budget. Although the Government has now reapplied twice-yearly indexation of pensions, that was still a broken promise. The restoration of that was brought about only by the fear for the number of back benchers who felt that their seats were not secure. But what about the single pensioners who have already lost $60 during the period when they did not receive tax indexation of their pension and the married pensioner couple who have lost over $100? That money is gone, and it is gone forever. With regard to the jobless, the Prime Minister said: 
We will be generous to those who can 't get a job and want to work. 
Perhaps I will say something on that later on. But we all know how the Government has tightened up on the unemployed, the unfortunate. It has tightened up the guidelines and refused increases to certain sections of unemployed people. So again, we have another broken promise. Here is another interesting quote. On 27 November 1975 the Prime Minister said: 
The Australian Assistance Plan will be maintained. 
The Australian Assistance Plan was abolished in 1976. So honourable members can see just a few of the broken promises. I said earlier that this Government would be remembered as a government of broken promises, and I think there is a very good reason why the Australian people should look at this Government as a government of broken promises. 
As we all know, there is an election going on in South Australia. The Liberal Leader of the Opposition in that State made certain promises in his policy speech the other night. It is very interesting to read a report of comments by the Leader of the Labor Party in South Australia in reply to  Mr Tonkin.  It states: 

 Mr Tonkin promises to cut taxation; so did Malcolm Fraser',  Mr Corcoran  said. 

 Mr Tonkin promises to reduce unemployment; so did Malcolm Fraser. 
The Prime Minister, like  Mr Tonkin,  promised bold initiatives to stimulate economic development. 
The result has been recession, high unemployment and higher taxation. 
Liberal deeds have not matched their words'. 
What he says there fully backs up what I have just said about the broken promises. 
I mentioned earlier that the pensioners have had their six-monthly pension rises restored, only because of the fear amongst the Government back benchers of the electoral impact if this were not done. They should never have been taken away. I certainly hope that the pensioners of 
Australia will remember, as I said earlier, that the single pensioner was $60 down the drain during that six-month period, and the married pensioner was $100 down the drain- money which they will never get back. But I am sure that despite the fact that the Government has restored six-monthly indexation of pensions, this will not save it next time it goes to the people. I do not think the people will forget. 
Let us look at other areas in the social service field. The Government has in many cases abandoned the unemployed. The 18-year-olds receiving unemployment benefits of course have had no increase in benefits. I do not think they have been given an increase since this Government came to power. They are still receiving $36 a week. The unemployment benefit recipients without dependants also have not had their unemployment benefits increased. I feel that this is a rather callous attitude by the Government, particularly when I look at the other actions which it has taken. I refer to the guidelines for eligibility for the unemployment benefit. They have been tightened up to make it harder to qualify. People who are presently unemployed are expected to spend increased time travelling to and from work that is available. The situation of those unfortunate people who have to rely on the unemployment benefit has been made pretty difficult. There are 27 or 28 people unemployed for every job vacancy in Australia. We should not be condemning unemployed people; they should have our sympathy. The Prime Minister made a promise which he did not keep when he said: 'We will be generous to the unemployed'. The Government certainly has not been that. The supplementary assistance paid to those pensioners paying for board or lodgings which has remained at $6 a week is also pretty lousy. 
I want to mention the initiative of a group of unemployed people in my electorate in the City of Whyalla. Many of the unemployed there are unemployed because of the closure of the shipyards. Many of them are tradesmen. Many who were formerly workers in the shipyards sustained injuries which were recorded in BHP records. When the shipyards closed BHP said that it would find those workers jobs in the steel works. When they were put off from the shipyards they had to apply for work at the steel works. What happened? Out came the medical records. They had had a bit of a knock to the knee and some treatment, perhaps trouble with an elbow, loss of hearing or so forth. They were told: 'I am sorry old chap,  you do not  measure up medically'. Of course they did not get the jobs in the steel works which they were promised. 
These people have joined together to form the Whyalla Unemployed Workers Movement. They are very dedicated people, conscious of their situation, very keen to assist their families in the present situation which they face. They have joined together and taken over a building, with the assistance of the State Government. They have set up an organisation which has been able to obtain foodstuffs, services et cetera at reduced rates. By doing so they have shown a great deal of initiative in the carrying out of their activities. They have a worthwhile organisation. Whilst many people look down on people who are unemployed I think these people should be commended for their initiative. I visit Whyalla regularly and I pay regular visits to the offices in which these people are operating. They certainly have my commendation for what they do. 
While I am dealing with social security matters I wish to refer to another issue. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is also the Minister in charge of children's affairs. During the last week I presented to this Parliament petitions containing thousands of signatures referring to cutbacks in funds available for pre-school activities. The petitions were mostly organised by committees connected with kindergartens. In this present situation they can see that they have to put off staff, cut back on activities and not take on children below a certain age. Of course these people are very concerned about all these things. There was no problem in getting people to sign the petitions. They came from all over the large electorate of Grey, not only from the major centres such as Port Lincoln, Whyalla, Port Pirie and Port Augusta, but also from many of the smaller centres. There was a great deal of concern throughout the electorate because wherever there were kindergarten activities there were cutbacks in the funds available. Once again I say that this does not do much credit to the Government. This is in contrast to what was promised during the period of the Whitlam Government and what was in train when that Government went out of power. The aim of the Whitlam Government was to give 12 months of pre-school education to every child in Australia. Of course that has gone by the board. 
I wish to raise something which was mentioned in the Budget, something about which the Government should be absolutely ashamed. I refer to compensation rates paid to its own employees if they become injured and are off work for over six months. During the first six months that Commonwealth employees are receiving compensation payments they receive their normal rates of pay, but after six months their incomes drop considerably. The history of this matter is not good. I do not think this Government can take a great deal of pride in it. When the Labor Party was in office in 1975 it intended to increase the compensation rate for injured employees, which at that time was $57 a week, to a figure more in line with the movements in the cost of living. The figure proposed at that time was equivalent to 84 per cent of the minimum wage. But of course when  Sir John  Kerr tossed the Whitlam Labor Government out of office the legislation before the Parliament went by the board, with the result that those unfortunate employees had to wait a further 12 months before the Fraser Government took any action to try to rectify that situation. So they went for two years without a rise. 
They last received a rise in 1976 when the amount received by an injured employee rose to $80 a week, which at the time represented 83 per cent of the minimum wage. If the employee had a wife he received an extra $2 1 and $ 10 for each child. Remember, that was in 1976. The amount paid in the event of a death of an employee was increased to $25,000. Over the last three years the cost of living index has risen by 35 per cent and the minimum wage has gone up by  29lA  per cent. But what did this generous Government do? It increased the amount paid to an injured employee by $ 10 a week, the amount paid to his wife increased from $21 to $23.50 a week and the amount for each child went from $10 to $1 1.25. As I said earlier, the CP1 had gone up by 35 per cent and the minimum wage had gone up by  29lA  per cent. After three years' delay in making any adjustment to these rates this Government increased the amounts by 12'/4 per cent. 
The same situation applied to the amount paid on the death of an employee. In 1975 the Labor Government, prior to its being tossed out of office by  Sir John  Kerr, intended to increase the amount to $28,000. Remember, that was four years ago. When the following Liberal Government altered the amount it was set at $25,000, not $28,000. Now, four years later, the Government has decided to increase the amount to $28,000. I do not know whether honourable members think that is a fair figure for the death of an employee, but I am sure that any fairminded person would agree that it is a pretty miserable sum in the light of the increases that have taken place in the CPI and the minimum wage. Approaches have been made not only by me but also by  Senator Grimes,  the Council of 
Australian Government Employee Organisations and other unions concerned with the Commonwealth Public Service, that this amount be indexed so that instead of having to wait on legislation to be passed employees can benefit as movements take place. It is three years since the legislation has been altered. Increases in compensation rates are granted only after legislation is passed by the Parliament. It was altered a further two years prior to that. So honourable members can see the raw deal these people are getting. I personally come into contact with many people who are suffering because of the situation. They are invariably wages employees. 
The Australian National Railways has, I think, 54 former employees receiving compensation at the miserable rates I have mentioned. Of those, only one is not a wages employee, and 37 of those 54 people have back injuries. So we can see what a miserable attitude this Government is taking as regards its employees. There has been no attempt to introduce legislation to index this compensation so that there can be automatic adjustments to the rates for those employees who have been injured in the service of this country. If the two staff sitting at the table and the SergeantatArms sitting at the back of the chamber were off for more than six months because of injury I am sure they would appreciate receiving $90 a week each, $23.50 a week for their wives and $ 1 1 .25 for each of their children! But they are the rates that would apply if they were off for more than six months because of injury. From this we can see that the record of this Government in dealing with its employees is certainly not one of which it can be proud. Many other matters have been taken up by the unions including, as I have mentioned before, the lump sum payment in the event of the death of an employee. To increase the lump sum payment by the same figure that the Labor Government intended to introduce four years ago demonstrates the lack of responsibility on the part of this Government. 
It is a fact that the Commonwealth Act is the worst of the Australian compensation Acts. When the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations approached the responsible Minister quite some time ago to do something about increasing compensation benefits, the Commonwealth Act probably had a slight edge on a couple of the State Acts but most of the State Acts provide for adjustments according to the consumer price index increases. There is no similar provision in the Commonwealth Act. As far as weekly payments are concerned, the only State Act that has worse provisions than the Commonwealth Act is the Queensland Act. I do not think Government supporters can give themselves a pat on the back because the Commonwealth Act is only slightly better than the Queensland Act. The Commonwealth Act is far behind the South Australian Act and other State Acts. This Government should consider updating the Commonwealth Act. I certainly hope that when the legislation comes before the Parliament we as an Opposition will be in a position to move amendments which will enable Commonwealth employees to receive benefits more in keeping with present day needs and in recognition of the service of former Commonwealth Government employees who had been injured in the course of their employment. They should not be forced to exist on the poverty level. They should receive the same benefits as everyone else. They should at least receive compensation payments which would allow them to live comfortably and be able to raise their families. Bear in mind that some of them have suffered grievous injuries and they may not be able to return to work. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  spoke about the avgas shortage and the distribution of fuel. The honourable member also represents a large country electorate with practically no internal air services. They mainly use aircraft that operate on avgas as opposed to turbo-engine aircraft. This situation is a big problem in my area. I agree with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member about the shortage of avgas. I certainly hope that the Government does not let the situation get completely out of hand. If it does get out of hand, I think the Government can take the blame. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-As we all know, there is to be an election in South Australia on 1 5 September and I suppose it is fair game to try to use this House to play the game of politics. Yesterday, there was an urgency debate in the Senate relating to energy and so forth in which efforts were made by South Australian senators to try to denigrate the South Australian Government. Today, we heard a Dorothy Dix question asked, again in relation to energy, which gave the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  an opportunity to try to bucket the South Australian Government over its attitude to a particular mining activity in South Australia- the Roxby Downs project. A lot of absolute bunkum has been spoken about this project. Certainly there is a fair amount of copper and uranium as well as other metals there, but there is also a lot of dirt mixed with them. 
Stupid remarks have been made and I mention some made last night in the Senate.  Senator Young  said that the proven reserves of uranium in South Australia at present were greater than the proven reserves in the Northern Territory. He said that there was one company that could virtually start mining tomorrow morning if it were given the green light. He referred specifically to the Roxby Downs area, which he said could be one of the largest mines in the world. Perhaps he knows more than the Western Mining Corporation. It holds the lease to this project and has never said that it could start mining tomorrow. In fact I was going to visit its leases three weeks ago. The Western Mining 
Corporation provided a very light aircraft and the pilot could not put me down because the salt lake on which the planes usually land had a little water on it. That is how ready it is to start. 
I suggest that the South Australian politicians who are trying to use this House to influence the South Australian electorate should get behind the South Australian Government in trying to develop the Redcliff petrochemical project. It could be an outstanding project within Australia and if given the support of this Government, as it has been supported by the South Austraiian Government, it would be a benefit to this country. At present the Cooper Basin is being exploited for natural gas only. The supply of natural gas to Adelaide and Sydney comes from that particular field. At present the dry wells are being used. This means that very little material has to be flared off into the atmosphere at Moomba before the natural gas goes on to Sydney and Adelaide. But very shortly those dry wells will be exhausted, and the wetter wells will have to be used. The wetter wells contain the feed stock that could be fed into a petrochemical industry. When that comes about, if something is not done with the condensates and the other materials that are in the wet gases they will be flared off into the atmosphere and a great energy resource will be wasted. 
Coupled with this is the fact that the salt from Lake Torrens- a pretty large lake in my electorate, not far from Redcliff where we hope the proposed petrochemical industry will be established- can be used in the petrochemical project. It is essential that both the State and the Federal Governments get behind this project to ensure that it is a goer. Announced recently was an improvement in the aluminium smeltering industry in Australia. One of the main ingredients in the smeltering process is caustic soda. At present I understand we import 800,000 tonnes of caustic soda for this industry and, if the expansion takes place, that demand will become greater and greater. It is proposed that the Redcliff petrochemical plant will produce 505,000 tonnes of caustic soda a year, plus a lot of other ethylene dichloride and other materials which can be used in Australia. I understand that ethylene dichloride will definitely be exported. It is essential that instead of using this place to snipe at the South Australian Government, this Government should get behind Australia's interests and back the Redcliff petrochemical industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for National Development been drawn to statements by the relevant South Australian Minister that the South Australian Government is to alter priorities in the allocation of water resources funding and drop plans for the filtration of the Murray River water for northern South Australian towns? Will any Federal funding be involved in this change of priorities and, if so, will the Minister use his influence to alter the South Australian Government's plans so that effect can be given to the former Government's proposals for such filtration? 
I draw the attention of the House to a problem that is affecting an area in my electorate. I refer to the water supply for the main northern towns of Port Augusta, Whyalla and Port Pirie and some of the smaller towns situated between those towns. The water is extracted from the River Murray through the Morgan-Whyalla pipeline which was developed during the war years to feed the growing industrial township of Whyalla. Since then, of course, that pipeline has been duplicated. One of the main problems is that although the pipeline was very welcome at the time, it provides very poor quality water. The water is very foul smelling, foul tasting, very murky and is usually a brown colour. 
A number of years ago people living in the northern areas of the State struck a lot of trouble with their children becoming ill. In the hot summer months quite a number of children contracted amoebic meningitis and there were quite a number of deaths. The medical examinations that took place following those deaths indicated that the cause of death was attributable to the water that was carried in the pipeline. The pipeline is above ground. The further north it goes the hotter it becomes. The heat in the pipeline somehow energises the amoeba, which causes the deaths. Not only is the water now dirty, murky and foul smelling, but also it carries a chlorine taste. The water is certainly not the type that people look forward to using. 
Appreciating this problem the South Australian Government decided a number of years ago that, because of the increased funds it anticipated it would receive from the Whitlam Government when it was in power, it would bring forward plans for a filtration plant to clear the water in the northern part of the State. When the Federal Labor Government lost office the funds from the Federal Government were not available to the extent that had been promised. So the plans for the filtration of the water to the north never came to fruition. That is the situation which we have at the present time. 
Prior to the recent South Australian election the then State Premier,  Mr Corcoran,  made a commitment that the South Australian Department of Engineering and Water Supply would initiate plans to establish somewhere in the northern area of South Australia a water filtration plant that would clean up the water so that it could be made usable. In that way its present disadvantages could be done away with. But, of course, the Corcoran Labor Government was defeated. I will not discuss tonight the reasons it was defeated. There were reasons. 
Now what do we find? We find in the newspapers reports of statements by the Minister in charge of water resources in South Australia that he has now decided that there will be a change of priorities. The previous Premier was under the impression that the plans to install that nitration plant would not alter, whichever party came to office. We now find that with the Liberal-Country League in office there is a proposal to change the priorities. The priority that was to be given to establishing the plant in order that the people in the north could have clear water has now been put to one side. Apparently the priority now is to carry out some desalination in the Murray River. It is rather strange that the priorities have been changed so that the people on the Spencer Gulf in the northern part of the State who voted solidly for Labor on election day will now not have their water filtration plant. The money will be spent in an area where the Minister in charge of water resources has responsibility; that is, up the Murray River. Perhaps we are right in thinking that the people in the northern area of South Australia are being punished because they continued to support a Labor government. 
This matter has caused some concern. The mayors of the three major towns- Port Augusta, Whyalla and Port Pirie- have all expressed concern that the promise that was given by the Labor Government prior to the last election will not be honoured by the present Liberal Government. Although the South Australian Government says that it will look at the situation next year, it is obvious that it will be quite some time before any start is made in providing a filtration plant to give a decent water supply to those major provincial cities as well as the towns surrounding those provincial cities. It means that the sort of thing to which I have referred will take place for many more years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
In view of the interest of local government from the northern Spencer Gulf region of South Australia in future railway activities in that area, when is the standardisation of the Adelaide-Crystal Brook rail link to be commenced. 
-First of all I thank the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  and the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  for cutting their speeches short to give me the opportunity to say a few words. I think it is absolutely disgraceful that a member who represents 12 per cent of the land area of this country and who probably has in his electorate the largest number of unsealed roads of any electorate in Australia and the lowest number of internal air services should have the time in which he is allowed to speak cut back. This is something of which the Government cannot be very proud. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  our shadow Minister. I am sure that it covers most of the problems that we see in this Bill. 
I refer to the national roads program and, in particular, how it affects the Stuart Highway in South Australia. Under the States Grants (Roads) Act the States are eligible for full financial assistance from the Commonwealth Government for approved construction and maintenance works on declared national highways. On the basis of the acceptance by the Commonwealth Government of the full financial responsibility for the development of national highway systems it follows that funding for the construction of the Stuart Highway should be provided by the Commonwealth Government. However, an examination of Commonwealth Government national highway construction grant allocations to South Australia shows that these grants have been inadequate to meet the urgent national construction expenditure commitments in this State. In 1974-75 and 1979-80 the national highway construction grants allocated, in both current prices and 1979-80 prices, were as follows: In current prices $ 1 6.2 1 m was allocated in 1 974-75. In 1979-80 $ 17.34m was allocated. In 1979-80 prices $27.85m was allocated in 1974-75. In 1979-80 $ 17.34m was allocated. One can see how far these allocations for national roads are falling in value. The South Australian Highways Department road price index has been used to convert the road grant allocations to 1979-80 prices. It is evident that in 1979-80 prices national highway construction grant allocations declined from $27.85m in 1974-75 to $ 17.4m in 1977-78. This is a decline in the level of funding of$10.45m or 37.5 percent. 
That decline in Commonwealth Government grants to South Australia for national highway construction reflects the Commonwealth Government's policy of reducing its financial responsibility for road works. Thus, for example, in 1979-80 prices Commonwealth Government road grants to South Australia have declined from $70.7m in 1972-73 to $47.27m in 1977-78. This is a decline of $23.43m or 33 per cent. As a result, the Commonwealth Government road grants as a percentage of total Highways Department receipts declined from 54.8 per cent in 1972-73 to 47.1 per cent in 1977-78. An examination by the Bureau of Transport Economics of the financial contributions to road works by level of government for Australia as a whole also shows the decline in the financial responsibility for roads by the Commonwealth Government. The percentage share of road funding by level of government was determined for the years 1974-75 and 1978-79. A projected share for 1983-84 was also determined. This indicated the following trend: In 1974-75 the Commonwealth Government allocated 32.2 percent. In 1978-79 it allocated 27.3 per cent. In 1983-84 it is estimated that it will allocate 23.1 per cent. The State contribution rose from 26. 1 per cent to 35.9 per cent in that period. The local government contribution decreased from 41.7 per cent to 41 per cent. From those figures we can see that the Commonwealth's share is dropping back considerably. 
It is of relevance that the decline in the real level of road funding by the Commonwealth Government has taken place over a period in which the real expenditure needs have been growing. Successive Australia-wide road surveys undertaken by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in conjunction with the State road authorities have reflected the growth in real road expenditure needs. In particular, these surveys have shown that, as a result of inadequate funding, the backlog of identified and economically warranted road improvement projects has been increasing. On the basis of the assessed backlog of warranted road expenditure and an assessment of future warranted road expenditure needs the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads recommended in its 1973 and 1975 reports on roads in Australia that the Commonwealth Government increase in real terms the level of road grants from year to year. In addition, in its 1975 report the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads recommended that the Commonwealth Government's share of total road funding for the last financial year should have been 40.8 per cent. However, as I have already shown, the actual share is only 27.3 per cent. 
It should also be noted that the inadequate financing of roads by the Commonwealth Government is taking place in a period in which motorists are making very significant and increasing contributions to Commonwealth Government revenue in the form of petrol taxation and domestic crude oil excise. For example, in 1979-80 the total amount contributed by the motorist to Commonwealth Government revenue in petrol tax and crude oil excise for the whole of Australia is expected to exceed $3,000m. However, Commonwealth Government road grants to all States amount to only $546m or 22 per cent of the total estimated collections from motorists in petrol tax and crude oil excise. It should also be noted that the cost of the Stuart Highway to which I shall refer later of $67.3m is only about 2.7 per cent of the estimated revenue collection from motorists in 1 979-80. As a result of the inadequate road funding by the Commonwealth Government, it was necessary in South Australia to divert considerable State road funds from urban and rural arterial road expenditure needs to meet national highway expenditure commitments. These commitments had been undertaken on the expectation, based on previous trends and the recommendations of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, that the Commonwealth Government would increase in real terms national highway construction grants. However, as I have already shown, national highway construction grants in 1979-80 prices decreased from $27.85m to $ 17.4m. 
I refer to the State Government and Commonwealth Government contributions to national highway expenditure for the years 1974-75 to 1978-79. In those years the total Commonwealth Government contribution to South Australia for national highway construction was $82. lm. The State contribution was $16.2m, 19.7 per cent of the Commonwealth Government contribution. We have to remember that the national highway programs are wholly the financial responsibility of the Federal Government. But despite what the Commonwealth Government has contributed, the State of South Australia, out of its other allocations and at the expense of other road allocations, has spent $ 1 6.2m of its own. It is relevant that on 25 November 1977, the then  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party and Minister for Primary Industry provided an official statement to the mayor of Alice Springs,  Mr George  Smith, that if elected to government, the Liberal Party would provide special funds for the construction of the Stuart Highway. He indicated that these funds would be additional to the grant allocations for national highways in South Australia and that the funds would be allocated specifically for the construction of the Stuart 
Highway. As we all know, no such additional funds have been provided. 
Quite recently, the former Minister of Transport in South Australia announced that his application for approval to spend $4.35m on the Stuart Highway in the next financial year had been approved by the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  But we now find that there could be some change of policy because of the change of government in South Australia. In the Adelaide  Advertiser  last week an article headed 'Darwin link a priority- Fraser' stated: 
Sealing the Stuart Highway was a national priority, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. 
It was his Government's objective to get more funds into the project, he said after a 30-minute meeting with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Australian Road Transport Federation. 
The article continued: 

 Mr Fraser said bulk funds, not grants for specific projects, were given to the States and added that the Stuart Highway situation 'could cause the Government to question that policy.' 
That is the first time we have seen any break at all. Previously approaches have been made to the Federal Minister by deputations of members from both sides and by deputations from various industry organisations asking for a special allocation to be granted to South Australia to allow the Stuart Highway sealing to proceed at a much faster rate. At the present rate of funding it will take 12 to 1 5 years for it to be completed. All previous approaches to the Minister have been rejected. We hope that, because of the Prime Minister's statement, there may be a change of policy. However, it is rather ironical that in the many years that the Labor Party was in office in South Australia it always received a fiat rejection of any requests for additional funds to be provided to it for sealing the Stuart Highway. Now there is a change of government. As we see in a few other areas, the Federal Government now seems to be taking a softer approach to South Australia. 
With reference to the Stuart Highway, there have been a lot of stunts, a lot of politicking and a lot of grandstanding by senators and other people who claim that they are interested in that part of South Australia. There has been a bus trip up the Stuart Highway, but the bus broke down. There was a visit by the Minister and other parties but unfortunately they could not land at Coober Pedy because it was wet- although I personally know a man who landed a Piper Navaho at Coober Pedy after the Minister said he could not land. There have been all these stunts and I think it is about time that all this bunkum stopped. The Government should get behind the people who want to see the highway sealed. It should provide the finance so that instead of having to wait 10 or 12 years for this major highway to be sealed the work can be done in five years. The present State Government says it can be done in that time. But if it can be done in five years under the present Liberal Government in South Australia, why is it that for so many years the Federal Government rejected applications for further funds to enable the work to commence? It is about time that we forgot all the politicking, all the grandstanding and all the bunkum about the Stuart Highway that has gone on in the past and provided the finance so that the job can be completed with a reasonable time- I would say about five years. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of efforts by the Western Australian Lamb Marketing Board to seek competitive freight rates from Qantas Airways Ltd to facilitate increased exports by air to the Middle East? Is he also aware that Qantas has refused to extend its air services to areas of the Middle East now served by other international airlines and has refused to reduce its cargo rates to a more competitive level? What difficulty does the Minister experience in wearing both his ministerial hats when trying to mediate on this issue in Australia's best interests? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
What sum has been paid under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act to employees of the Northern Division of Australian National Railways for loss of hearing due to their employment. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) How many employees were in the Northern Division of Australian National Railways as at 1 September (a) 1 978 and(b) 1979. 
How many employees were in each of the various branches of ANR as at those dates. 
I second the amendment that has been moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I think that he clearly stated the injustice that applies in this legislation. The amendment contains two measures which would at least assist in overcoming some of those injustices- an increase in payments in line with the consumer price index since 1976 and automatic twice yearly payments. As has been pointed out by my colleague, Commonwealth employees have not had any indexation increase for three years. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in introducing this Bill said: 
This legislation was last amended for this purpose during the 1976 Budget session of the Parliament. Since then there have been significant increases in the cost of living- 
He would have to be joking there- and in the benefits payable under the workers ' compensation legislation in New South Wales, Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland, while legislation is pending in Victoria. It is therefore necessary that the benefits under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act should again be increased. 
If the Government is concerned about what is happening in the States it is strange that it has introduced the increases provided in this Bill. In the course of the Budget debate I called the increases miserable. I repeat those words. They are absolutely miserable. They are an insult to Commonwealth employees who, because of injuries sustained in the course of their employment, are off work for more than six months. There is only one thing in the second reading speech that is of any advantage to those employees. It states: 
The increased lump sums for death and specified losses will also apply from 1 September 1979 in all cases where the death occurs or the loss is suffered after that date, even though the death or loss may have resulted from an injury sustained before that date. Increases in other benefits will apply in a similar way. 
To my knowledge that is about the only thing in this legislation about which the Government can boast. Previously, if an employee were injured on a particular date and death occurred later the amount paid out was the amount that applied on the date on which the injury took place. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
If we look through the history of what has taken place since the Labor Government came to office in 1972 we will see how harshly Commonwealth employees have been treated. On 2 November 1972 the weekly benefit was 84 per cent of the minimum wage. The Labor Government introduced a completely new compensation Bill which had very many advantages. It was in line with the more advanced legislation in some of the States. Unfortunately, because of the opposition in the Senate, that legislation was rejected. All the Labor Government could do was to introduce increases that at least restored the weekly amounts and lump sum payments to their value. In the case of the weekly payments that was 84 per cent of the minimum wage. The Wheeldon proposals which were brought in in 1975, prior to the Whitlam Government's being shanghaied out of office by the Governor-General, made allowance for a payment of $73 which at that time would have brought the payment to 91 per cent of the minimum wage. We know what happened then. That legislation was on the statute books but it was never voted on. It went out of operation when the Whitlam Government was dismissed. The people receiving compensation had received no increase for 12 months. 
When the Fraser Government assumed office it was not until the end of 1976 that moves were made to increase the amount of compensation. The legislation was altered to increase payments to the beneficiary from 1 September 1 976 to $80. At the time that amount represented 83 per cent of the minimum wage. Prior to that legislation's being introduced, the amount being paid represented in the vicinity of 65 per cent of the minimum wage. It had dropped in value considerably. What do we find now? The Government has introduced legislation which it claims will restore value to the weekly compensation payments. It certainly goes nowhere near achieving that aim. The weekly payments under this legislation will increase from $80 to $90 a week. That is an increase of 1 2.5 per cent. The payment for a spouse increases from $2 1 to $23.60 a week which represents an increase of only 1 1 per cent. The amount of payment for a child goes from $10 a week to $11.25, an increase of 12.5 per cent. It is a rather strange increase when one realises that the consumer price index increase in that time was 36 per cent. It indicates just how far behind the Commonwealth employees on compensation are. This legislation completely ignores their situation. 
Let me state the position under this legislation. This Bill does not allow for indexation of payments. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  tried to introduce indexation payments in line with automatic twice-yearly adjustments. This legislation does not do anything of the sort. The Schedule of the Bill indicates that where a figure is altered, it omits so much and substitutes so much or such higher amount to be prescribed. It appears that at some time in the future that can be done by regulation. But there is nothing in this legislation to give an indication of how this Schedule is going to apply; when it is going to apply; when adjustments are going to be made to keep these figures at a decent level. 
Compare this legislation with State legislation. The weekly benefit in Western Australia is full pay and is indexed. In South Australia it is weekly full pay and is indexed. In Tasmania it is full pay and is indexed. I understand that in Victoria a Bill has been introduced this year to provide payment of $105 a week and it is indexed. In the Australian Capital Territory the weekly payment is $94.33 and is indexed. In New South Wales the weekly payment is $92.60 and is indexed. In Queensland, which has the only payment lower than that paid to Commonwealth employees, the weekly amount is $83.10 but it is indexed. Possibly, in 12 month's time, the 
Queensland weekly benefit may be higher than the Commonwealth payment. On the question of the amount paid in the event of the death of an employee, when the Labor Government introduced legislation in 1975 it was to take the lump sum payment to $28,000. When the Liberal Party introduced legislation in 1976 to bring the amount up to somewhere near what it should have been, the figure went only to $25,000 instead of the $28,000 that applied under the Labor legislation. In this legislation, three yea rs later, the Government has caught up to the Labor Government's figure and made the amount $28,000. 
Compare the amount paid to Commonwealth employees under this legislation with amounts paid to employees in the States. In Western Australia the death benefit is $40,822; in Tasmania, $33,995; in the 1979 Victorian Bill the amount goes to $33, 160; in the Australian Capital Territory, the amount is $33,100; in Queensland, the amount is $29,080; in New South Wales, the amount is $25,000; in South Australia, the amount is $25,000; and in this legislation that we are dealing with now, the amount for Commonwealth employees is $28,000. This shows that we are way behind most of the States in the payment of death benefit. 
I know there was a bit of argument across the House not so long ago between the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, but my concern is for the people whom I represent. Within my electorate there is a large Commonwealth establishment, the Australian National Railways, which employs about 4,000 employees. The railway industry is accident prone. Probably that establishment in my electorate has the worst record of any Commonwealth establishment. Most of the people who are injured are employees on wages. Quite a lot of the injuries they sustain are serious ones. In the case of operating staff it is the loss of an arm, the loss of a leg or the loss of both. There are quite a number of back injuries. Honourable members may be interested in the number of employees injured in accidents in this establishment. At the end of last year I received an answer from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to my question about how many Australian National Railway employees had been involved in accidents. In his reply he stated that 54 employees had been on compensation or were receiving compensation payments for injuries received during their employment. Part of the Minister's answer stated:  the main types of long term injuries are spinal injuries. For example, 35 of the 54 employees and former employees referred to in part ( 1 ) of the answer are so incapacitated. 
This is an interesting point in his answer 
Of the 54 employees and former employees mentioned above, one former employee was salaried and the remainder . . . 
It means that 53 employees were wages and salary staff. When dealing with this legislation, we are not dealing with the higher paid people in society but the lower paid. I represent members of an organisation which consists largely of employees on wages and an industry that is probably more accident prone than most industries. I feel that this Government, by its actions in this legislation in not giving recognition to the problems and in not making decent payments to these people to ensure that they have a decent standard of living if they are off work for any length of time, should be ashamed of itself. It has been pointed out that recently there was an increase of 12.5 per cent generally in payments, but there has been an increase of 36 per cent in the consumer price index. Every honourable member should get behind the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I repeat the wording of the amendment: 
That the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for- 
an increase in payments in line with the consumer price index since 1976; and 
automatic twice-yearly payments. 
I urge the House to support the amendment. 
-Has the Minister for Trade and Resources indicated that supplies of phosphate from Christmas Island will last for another 10 years? Is this advice at variance with that of the British Phosphate Commission which has announced that Christmas Island deposits will be exhausted in 1983? Will the Minister give a guarantee that farmers will not be forced to rely on Moroccan phosphate which is selling for SO per cent more than Christmas Island phosphate? 
-Tonight I wish to refer to an article that appeared in the  Farmer and Stock Owner Journal  in South Australia. It is an article by the  Chairman  of its Education Committee,  Mr Garth  Polkinghorne. In the article  Mr Polkinghorne  states: 
A couple of years ago, largely as the result of UFS initiative, a scheme was devised to help train people who were, or intended becoming, farmers. 
Because farming is essentially a practical business and farmers are practical people and because the basic idea came from farmers it was decided that the best place to do the training was on farms with farmers doing a lot of the teaching. 
There are some things though that are not readily taught on farms. So periods were set aside where a group of trainees could be taught some theoretical topics that were directly related to farming and other practical things that might require equipment not always readily available. 
Out of all this evolved a pilot "On-Farm Training Scheme" centred at Cummins on Eyre Peninsula which involved 26 young farmers and their employers and which is now nearing completion. 
The organisation was conducted by the Department of Further Education using its staff and some from the Department of Agriculture and Roseworthy College. 
This pilot scheme has proved to be a tremendous success and a large part of this success is because the trainers were paid to be involved in the training, to off-set the disadvantages of employees being away from the farm for several weeks each year. 
These funds were provided by the Federal Government under the NEAT scheme. 
And here lies the rub. 
By providing funds for a pilot or trial training period there is an implicated inference that if the pilot was successful (and careful analysis has shown that most, if not all aims were achieved), the training system would be extended to other areas of SA so that other trainees could be involved. 
In May of 1978 we began negotiating with the Federal Government. 
NEAT money was not available for a continuation of the scheme- it was meant for a special category of unemployed people. 
Then in conjunction with Qld., NSW and WA we saw  Mr Street,  MHR, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, seeking funding equivalent to CRAFT which applies to secondary industry. 
This applies automatically to people who employ indentured apprentices, a system not suited to the agriculture industry. 
Shortly after this meeting there was a Federal Cabinet reshuffle and this area became the responsibility of  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. 
We received  Mr Viner  's reply on May 2, 1979 some 12 months after beginning negotiations. 
He said we should align ourselves with formal apprenticeship- after we had gone to great lengths to explain why this system was not suited to the farming community in SA . . . 
While all this was happening, the DFE had applied to the Federal Government for TEAS funding for on-farm training. 
This Tertiary Education Assistance Allowance is paid to many people in the community while they are receiving training. 
We know that some potential stenographers are getting it; so are some students at Roseworthy College and even in the "trade" field there are city people being paid the TEAS allowance. 
On September 17 we learnt that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  had said "no" to TEAS for on-farm training. 
In summary therefore- we can't get NEAT, we can't get TEAS and we don 't want CRAFT. 
The trainees in the Eyre Peninsula course will graduate this month but after nearly 18 months of negotiation, frustration and political prevarication we are no further advanced as far as Federal Government assistance is concerned. 
I am most upset about this and so is the education committee, but we will continue to try and get training funds for primary industry in SA. 
The heading of the article is 'How to get the Canberra runaround in one long, hard lesson'. The first paragraph states: 
If you don't like jogging, are not interested in politics or in training, don't read any further for this is the tale of the political runaround. 
I am sure that these people who are interested in fostering this on-farm training for young people in South Australia would fully agree with what  Mr Polkinghorne,  the  chairman  of the education committee of United Farmers and Graziers of South Australia Incorporated has to say on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the Pitjanjatjara Land Rights Bill introduced into the South Australian Parliament by the former South Australian Government. 
Can the Minister say whether the Bill was subject to a select committee inquiry by that Parliament, from which certain amendments were recommended. 
Is it a fact that the new South Australian Government has now withdrawn the Bill, with a view to introducing a new Bill with considerably reduced rights for the Aboriginal people, especially in respect of mineral rights. 
Are the actions of that Government in the best interests of the Pitjanjatjara people. 
Will he ensure that these people receive elementary justice from the new South Australian Liberal Government. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the airstrip at the Aboriginal settlement at Indulkana in northern South Australia is unserviceable on many occasions; if so, in view of the isolation of Indulkana and the importance of maintaining air communications, are there any plans to upgrade the strip to a satisfactory standard. 
If so, what are those plans and when will they be put into operation. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
Notes the construction of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs rail line has reached the South Australian-Northern Territory border and is scheduled to reach Alice Springs by late 1980; 
Recognises that this history making national project was undertaken by the last Labor Government and that the first sod in construction work was turned by Prime Minister Whitlam in April 1975; 
Congratulates the Australian National Railways Commission and its employees on the rapid and efficient rate of construction of the new rail link; and 
Is of the opinion that urgent consideration be given to continuing construction  of the  rail line beyond Alice Springs to Darwin. 
-When did the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs first become aware of the letter dated 23 June 1978 from  Mr C.  E. K. Hampson, counsel assisting the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs, to  Mr M.  A. Besley, the Secretary to his Department? Did the Minister discuss this letter before  Mr Besley  gave evidence before the Commission on 19 and 20 September 1978? Did he discuss with  Mr Besley  the evidence which  Mr Besley  might give to the Commission? Did he approve of the strong defence by  Mr Besley  of the Narcotics Bureau in his evidence to the Commission? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 September 1 979: 
1 ) What joint venture fishing projects are being negotiated for South Australia. 
What are the details of these ventures and with which nations is Australia to be involved. 
From what fishing ports are the joint ventures to operate. 
What steps are being taken to protect Australia's long term interests in the fishing industry. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
) That this House is of the opinion that country dwellers are- 
generally at a disadvantage in the provision of services when compared to city dwellers; 
are denied any television service in some areas such as the Eyre Peninsula, and in other areas rely on a single ABC channel of limited range; 
will be denied the opportunity of either being able to watch major sporting events such as test cricket on ABC television or hearing broadcasts of the cricket from ABC radio stations; and 
have become victims of the Government's lack of concern in not ensuring that country dwellers are being catered for in the provision of adequate cover of these major sporting events; and 
calls on the Government to exercise its powers and authority to ensure that country dwellers are not denied these opportunities. 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware of recent news items which state that the United Kingdom has now completely severed itself from activities at Woomera in South Australia? In view of earlier stated opinions that Woomera would be placed on a care and maintenance basis with the possibility of the United Kingdom returning to weapons testing in the 1980s, what does the future now hold for the township and people of Woomera, other than providing services for the United States of America Nurrungar installation? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) How many apprentices are being trained in Commonwealth Departments or instrumentalities under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training (CRAFT) Scheme. 
Which Departments and instrumentalities carryout the training. 
Are there any restrictions, financial or otherwise, placed on the employment of CRAFT scheme apprentices in Commonwealth Departments and instrumentalities compared with apprentices in private employment. 
-In speaking to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, I refer to the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I will not read the amendment but it does refer to Commonwealth Government land in Jervis Bay in the Australian Capital Territory. I understand that under Australian Capital Territory legislation Aboriginals cannot get land in these areas other than by lease. I am told that one of the problems is that although Aboriginals can get a lease on land any area which is a burial area is excised from the lease. I am told that in the Australian Capital Territory leases are not issued for cemeteries. That means that Aborigines cannot get control of their burial grounds which are of great significance to them. Nevertheless, I support the amendment. 
The Labor Party introduced the land rights legislation in 1975 following the Woodward report. That legislation was before the Parliament when the Whitlam Labor Government was dismissed by the Governor-General in 1975. The incoming Liberal-Country Party Government introduced its own style of land rights legislation. Although that legislation did give effect to many of the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward, there were some differences of opinion between the two parties. I think it can be said in all fairness that, although we differ on the emphasis in and the areas dealt with by the legislation on the question of land rights there has over the last four or five years been what could in some respects be called a bipartisan policy. I hope that that continues in the interests of the Aboriginal people. It would enable the implementation of what was in effect recommended in the Woodward report. People can talk about health, education, housing and all sorts of things but unless the Aboriginal people who still live in tribal communities are given land rights the other things do not seem to matter a great deal. Land to Aborigines is their religion. Their whole lifestyle is concerned with land. Unless they are able to control their land, the other things do not seem to matter so much. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  in his speech in the other place said: 
The view was taken by  Mr Justice  Woodward in his report- he was asked to report only on the Northern Territory- that an examination of the State position would take much longer but that what was done in the Northern Territory would provide something of a precedent. So far, it has not provided a precedent in the sense of complementary legislation being enacted in the States. 
Various means are being adopted by State governments to ensure that Aboriginals have secure access to land. In each State the Commonwealth has taken a positive interest in encouraging State action. In New South Wales an inquiry is under way at the moment. In South Australia legislation is proposed. I have had talks with the South Australian Government on that. 
The Minister went on to talk about what has happened in Victoria and Tasmania. The area to which I wish to refer, because I have a great interest in it, is that which is occupied by the Pitjantjatjara. We all know that the Pitjantjatjara occupy an area of land that includes not only the Northern Territory but also the State of South Australia and Western Australia- the south-west corner of the Northern Territory, the north-west corner of South Australia and the middle-eastern border of Western Australia. I understand that there have been attempts to get the Commonwealth Government and the two States to agree on a central area for the Pitjantjatjara which would satisfy their land rights claims. 
A number of years ago the South Australian Labor Government took the first step in establishing land rights for Aboriginals when it set up the Aboriginal Lands Trust in that State. The role of the Trust was pretty limited. Although its work was effective in the southern areas of South Australia the legislation did not apply to the tribal areas in the north-west of that State. So it was necessary for other legislation to be introduced to give effect to land rights claims in a way similar to that which the Commonwealth Government has introduced for the Northern Territory. These people in the northwest area of my State and of my electorate are still in a highly tribalised state. Their tribal organisation still operates. Their whole lifestyle evolves around the tribe. But of course, as I said, the land trust legislation was not sufficient to cover that aspect. It is rather odd that the people over the border in the Northern Territory, the 
Pitjantjatjara people, can make application to the Land Commissioner and be given land in that area. I should imagine that quite a lot of that area is under the control of the Land Council. Steps are being taken in South Australia in this regard and I shall refer to that matter later. I understand that in Western Australia proposals were put to the Western Australian Government for the Government to allocate land to the Aboriginals in that area occupied by the Pitjantjatjara people, but the Premier of that State rejected the proposal. 
The South Australian Government introduced what was called the Pitjantjatjara Land Rights Bill. That Bill created some opposition amongst some vested interests, big pastoralists and so forth. Finally that Bill was referred to a select committee. That select committee considered the Bill and came down with some recommendations. As a result, some minor changes were made to the Bill. Of course with the defeat of the Labor Government in South Australia a couple of months ago, that Pitjantjatjara Land Rights Bill has now lapsed. So there is a bit of concern as to the attitude that the new Government in South Australia will take. Although that Government has said that it will introduce a new Bill, it is quite obvious from a statement made by the South Australian Premier,  Mr Tonkin,  that it will be a watered down Bill. Of course the question of mineral rights will be given attention. In the previous Bill at least the Aboriginals had some say as to who was going to roam over their land. From the remarks made by the present Premier of South Australia and by the Liberal member representing that area, there is a possibility that mineral rights will be excluded from the .operations of the new Pitjantjatjara Land Rights Bill when it is introduced. 
I mentioned earlier that the Minister had had discussions with the States. I hope that in his discussions with the new South Australian Government he will do his utmost to see that this question of mineral rights is not taken out of the Bill for these people who, as I say, are still in a tribalised state. They are now receiving some interest from prospectors and so forth. They do not want to see people roaming all over their land without permission. If people think there are minerals in those areas, I do not think it unreasonable that they should get the permission of the Aboriginal people to prospect. I do not think that is a harsh condition to put on any prospector. But we are concerned at present that in the new Bill this provision may be weakened and the Aboriginals themselves will have no say as to who goes on their land prospecting for minerals. 
I have been up there on a number of occasions. I was up there only two months ago. I attended meetings and I know that the Aboriginal people there are very worried about this matter. I conclude on that point. I sincerely hope that the Federal Minister, in his discussions with the South Australian Government, will ensure that the full rights of these people are protected and that he will use his influence with the South Australian Liberal Government to see that they are protected in a manner similar to the way in which the rights of Aboriginals in the Northern Territory have been protected. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Recommendations for grants of Crown land, other than that described in Schedule 1 ). 
-In the course of the debates last Thursday night, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  as is the custom of honourable members on the other side, endeavoured to denigrate everything that took place during the three years of the Whitlam Government. Talking about constitutional development in the Northern Territory, he said: 
Honourable members can say what they like but the previous Government, although it made a lot of noise about it, certainly did nothing whatsoever from  1972  until it was put out of government in  1975 - 
Perhaps we can point to the truth and show that what the honourable member had to say was completely false. On 5 April 1973, the first move was made in this House to establish a joint committee on the Northern Territory to report on Constitutional Development. A delay was caused by the then Opposition in the Senate. The matter came back into this House on 1 1 September 1973 and was eventually okayed by the Senate on 30 August 1973. That committee was established under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  Its terms of reference included: 
the Government's wish to establish a fully elected Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory by  31  December  1974; 
That committee met on a number of occasions and brought down its recommendations on 26 November 1974. It was said that the Labor Government did nothing, but the report by the joint committee on constitutional development states:  1974  a fully elected Legislative Assembly of nineteen members was established. 
That is what was recommended by the committee. The Government moved immediately and established that Assembly. The report continues: 
The Administrator's Council was reconstituted to comprise the administrator and five elected members. The Senate (Representation of Territories) Act  1974  was passed by the Parliament giving the Northern Territory two Senators in the next election. 
How can it be said that the Labor Government did nothing? That report. was presented on 26 November 1974. Everybody knows that on Christmas Day 1974 Darwin was hit by Cyclone Tracy. After that matters had to be looked at again. The Minister for the Northern Territory wrote to the  chairman  of the committee asking him to:  . . inquire into and report whether in view of the devastation of Darwin caused by cyclone Tracy the Committee sees a need to vary any of the recommendations on constitutional development for the Northern Territory contained in the report presented to Parliament by the Committee on 26 November 1974. 
So the committee did reconvene. It went to Darwin and took evidence from various people in Darwin. This was a valid thing to do because we must remember that quite a number of the electorates that were to be established were to be in the Darwin area. On this point to the report stated: 
The population of Darwin before cyclone Tracy was approximately 48,000. After the evacuation it was approximately 1 1,000 in early January 1975, and it has since increased to about 30,000. 
That would be about May 1975. The report continued: 
The total available accommodation of an acceptable standard by 3 1 July 197S is expected to house 30,050 people. 
The report further stated: 
Evidence was given to the Committee that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission has not yet finalised its plans for the reconstruction of Darwin and it is not possible to indicate the future distribution of population. Accordingly it is not possible to indicate the future number of electors in each electorate. 
The committee's second report was brought down on 28 May 1975, towards the end of the autumn session of the Parliament. The ensuing legislation was to come down in the Budget session. I do not think I have to remind honourable members what happened during the Budget session of 1 975. It is all very well for the honourable member for the Northern Territory to say that nothing was done in that period but I mention things: There were the Administrator's 
Council alterations; the fact that a 19-member elected House was established before the end of 1974; and the Northern Territory was given Senate representation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
In view of his earlier announcement regarding plans to extend national television services to various areas of Eyre Peninsula, SA, when will the services be established. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
1 ) In what country centres of 
South Australia; and 
the Electoral Division of Grey, do Telecom manual assistance centres operate. 
Is Telecom proposing to close a number of these centres; if so, which are to be closed. 
3 ) Has consideration been given by Telecom to the disadvantages of these closures. 
Is it a fact that closure of these centres 
will have an effect on female employment; and 
b) will be a risk to security in times of emergencies such as bushfires. 
If so, could situations that have the back-up of manual assistance centres to maintain communications overcome these effects. 
Will he take steps to reverse any Telecom policy in regard to the closure of these centres. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
IsCoober Pedy, S.A., one of the few towns in South Australia with a population in excess of 2000 that is served by a non-official post office. 
In view of the anticipated growth in the Coober Pedy area, are there any plans by Australia Post to alter the post office to official status; if so, when will this occur. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 5 November 1 979: 
1 ) What action will Australian National Railways take regarding the many blocks of land now lying idle at Port Augusta, S.A. following the demolition of the older type homes owned by the railways in that area. 
Will the blocks be released for sale for further housing or other purposes: If not, to what use is the land to be put. 
