asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government give consideration to including ambulance transport expenses with medical expenses as an allowable tax deduction. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Western Australian State School Teachers Union communicated with him regarding an apparent anomaly which exists in Australia's taxation laws. 
Does the existing income tax law provide that a zone allowance is available to a taxpayer who resides in a prescribed area for not less than 6 months of a financial year. 
If so, will he give consideration to correcting the apparent anomaly that arises when the period of 6 months or more extends over two consecutive financial years. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to the one asked by the Leader of the Opposition. In view of the Treasurer's statement that the economy has become overheated, what action does the Prime Minister propose to take in regard to the suggested increase in the price of petrol? Does he agree that such an increase would reflect itself in other sectors of the economy and result in further overheating of the economy? Will he agree to an independent commission to inquire into the price of petrol and indeed into the price of steel as proposed by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and supported by the  President  of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria in reference to the question of petrol? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Does he know that the Australian Broadcasting Commission and other news sources are referring to the visit of the Royal family as 'the Royal tour of Australia'? Would he agree that as the tour does not include one-third of the continent, namely Western Australia, it is hardly a tour of Australia? As the Royal family is spending about 5 weeks in Australia, mainly in New South Wales and Victoria, would he even at this late stage try to get the Royal family to go to Western Australia even for a short visit? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has any further consideration been given to giving effect to the recommendations of the Loder Committee in regard to taxation concessions designed to encourage the development of Northern Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Trans-Australia Airlines applied as far back as 3rd July 1963 for a licence to operate a Perth-Darwin service. 
How many times has a licence to operate this service been applied for since 3rd July '1963. 
What was the date of the most recent application. 
Why was the application refused. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Are married pensioner couples living in separate C class hospitals treated as single pensioners and paid$15 per week each. 
Are married pensioner couples living in the same C class hospital paid only $13.25 per week each. 
Is it in the interests of a married couple to be accommodated at the same C class hospital. 
If so, will he arrange for all pensioners living in C class hospitals to be classed as single pensioners for the purpose of pension payments. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the appointment of an ombudsman in New Zealand has been successful, and has the support of the New Zealand people. 
If so, will he consider the appointment of an ombudsman in Australia; if not, why not. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. In view of all the petitions that have been presented to the House asking the Government to take positive action to restore confidence in the arbitration system, does the Minister propose to take any action to restore such confidence or are these petitions going to be pigeonholed and ignored as happens to so many petitions? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When was the Commonwealth benefit of$2 per day in respect of qualified patients accommodated at C class hospitals introduced. 
What has been the percentage increase in the cost of living since the benefit was increased to$2 per day. 
To what extent have hospital costs increased since the benefit was increased to $2 per day. 
Will he give consideration to increasing the benefit. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Did the former Minister for Defence just prior to the last Federal election foreshadow a naval exercise off the coast of Western Australia? Is it correct that due to a lack of logistical support for a large number of ships off that coast a fleet exercise, due to have been held about August next, has now been cancelled? If this is so does it not indicate the necessity of developing the Cockburn Sound naval base as a matter of urgency? What steps are being taken to speed up the establishment of this base? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  in his reply to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  stated that he was go ng to deal solely with rates of pay. He did of course mention also the annual leave claim of the Commonwealth public servants. 1 propose during the course of my remarks to deal briefly with the 3 points that are at issue in this debate. At the outset I would like to say to the 250,000 or more Commonwealth public servants that they would have achieved their goal if a Labor government had been elected at the last Federal elections. The Labor Party needed to get only 4 more seats in order to form a government and it had already said that 4 weeks' annual leave would be provided if it were returned to office. Commonwealth public servants would now be enjoying similar annual leave provisions to those which apply to the New South Wales Public Service and have applied to that Service since 1964. They would now have the same 4 weeks' annual leave provisions which apply to all local government employees in that State. Th s is a practice which has spread to other States where many local governing bodies have granted their employees 4 weeks annual leave as a standard entitlement. It must be remembered that 3 weeks annual leave was established as standard for Commonwealth public servants at the time of federation nearly 70 years ago. At that time it was a standard that was far above any annual leave provisions applying to any other section of the work force. But now the annual leave provisions of the Commonwealth Public Service lag behind the provis'ons which apply to many other groups of workers throughout the Commonwealth. 
Last December a joint deputation waited upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and some of his officers. At that deputation were representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Associations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. They put forward a strong claim to the Prime Minister for 4 weeks' leave. That claim was refused. The Minister for Labour and National Service stated it was considered that if the claim had been granted it would have spread generally throughout industry. Let me just draw his attent on to the fact that while this body of workers had 3 weeks' annual leave at the commencement of federation nearly 70 years ago. the standard of 3 weeks' annual leave did not spread generally throughout the work force until approximately 50 years later. If it takes that long for the 4 weeks* annual leave provision to spread most of us will not see it anyhow. 
In their submissions the Commonwealth Public Service associations were able to show that production per head of population had been increasing year by year and this was a significant factor in granting increased leisure to the Australian work force other than Commonwealth public servants. They felt they should receive their share of the cake in the form of increased leisure. The members of the deputation also drew attention to an extract from a judgment of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which, they emphasised, indirectly supported their claim. It is just as well to mention this judgment which was pronounced in the 1963 metal trades case. The Commission said: 
We consider it would be fair to increase margins under this award by 10%. We have reached this conclusion in the knowledge that today employees under this award have been awarded an extra weeks' annual leave. 
So metal trades workers and others coming under Commonwealth awards at that time received not only the additional leave but also a 10% increase in margins. The decision of the Commission implied that had not the metal trades received the extra leave earlier there would have been a greater increase in margins. The Commonwealth public servants, of course, received the equivalent increase in the margins but their standard of annual leave remained at 3 weeks, which has been the standard since federation. 
Surely Commonwealth public servants rightly claim that they have been denied their rightful share of the benefits of increased national productivity. The Government's main argument against this, as mentioned by the Minister for Labour and National Service just now. was the cost that would be involved; but the Public Service associations were able to point out that when the additional week's leave was granted in New South Wales in 1 964 to the Public Service and government instrumentalities there was no increase in the rate of growth of the staff that was employed. They were able to show that to the Prime Minister. The refusal of the Government to grant the claim of the public servants to this request is causing grave discontent in the Public Service. The unions have clearly indicated that they intend to press for this extra week's leave even if it means stopping work in support of this claim. No-one can say that public servants have a history of militancy. They are the most conservative unionists. In recent years there have been rumblings in their ranks and in the ranks of other white collar workers which indicate that grave dissatisfaction exists in the ranks of this type of worker. We have to remember also that the white collar unions have tremendous strength if they were only prepared to use it. If ever they use this strength to the full, as they have been threatening, the Government will realise it has a fight on its hands. In recent years the ranks of white collar workers have grown out of all proportion to those whom we might call the blue collar workers. Between 1947 and 1961 the proportion of professional, administrative, clerical and sales workers in the work force increased by over 4%. During the same period the blue collar workers were reduced in numbers gradually. It is clear that white collar workers now outnumber their counterparts in the blue collar field. 
There are approximately 340 trade unions in Australia, of which 192 are white collar unions. These unions have actively campaigned against some Government members, and the huge vote received by the late Jim Fraser in the Australian Capital Territory a few months ago was an indication of their strength. He received 67% of the vote that was then cast. These workers are again on the warpath and I feel certain that when the Australian Capital Territory by-election takes place on 30th May we shall see a bigger swing against the Government by this group of workers. The Government should also pay close attention to the legitimate claim of its servants that their pay rates are lagging behind the pay rates of comparable workers in outside industry. Over award payments are now the accepted thing in many industries, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh clearly pointed out. The Commission lays down minimum standards. The parties then get together and bargain for over award payments. The  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has referred to this as the collective bargaining area. In the 1966 annual report he said:  lt bas long been obvious that arbitration for minimum payments and bargaining of overaward payments must co-exist in this community.  . . There is no real incompatibility in the mutual existence of a system for prescribing minimum rates by arbitration tribunals and of bargaining on occasion about over-award payments. 
But this Government thinks that the minimum should become the maximum. That is what was indicated by the Minister, who said that the employees first go through the field of negotiation, then go before the Public Service Arbitrator, and after that they may appeal to the Commission. According to him there is no further room for negotiation about award payments. That is exactly what these people are complaining about. In the Commonwealth Public 
Service the minimum becomes the maximum rate of pay, and the professional engineers case is a case in point. All these matters have been dealt with adequately by the honourable member for Hindmarsh and I do not want to trespass on that ground any further. One of the matters that reveals the reactionary attitude of this Government towards industrial conditions is its treatment of female employees. Firstly, in opposition to the unions claims before the joint bench the Government intervened- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I ask: Does he agree that due to increases in prices since the last increase in pensions the purchasing power of pensions has been considerably reduced? I think he must agree with that. In view of the loss of value of the pension will he grant the request of the various pensioner leagues that urgent consideration be given to an increase in pensions before the normal Budget session in August next? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does he propose to introduce tax reform to relieve the excessively high tax burden on lower and middle income groups. 
If so, will he study the sweeping tax reforms now being introduced in Canada, including a capital gains tax. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the practice of releasing Army houses for purchase by servicemen on their being discharged from the Army has now ceased. 
Has the Commonwealth Department of Housing requested the State Housing Commissions to make houses occupied by servicemen available for sale to these servicemen. 
If so, what has been she result of this request. 
If a satisfactory decision has not been received, what action is proposed to provide housing for ex-servicemen. 

 - Mr Speaker, I desire to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Has the Treasurer seen a report from the  President  of the National Building Association,  Mr Hannaford,  that housing commencements have been reduced by 25% in all States and by 45% in Western Australia due to the increase in bond rates which is reflected in other interest rates and consequently in the building industry? Incidentally, the latest report shows a 75 per cent reduction in commencements. Has this also caused hardship to thousands of home buyers throughout the State due to increased interest rates on mortgage contracts? ls he aware that his Government has done more damage to the building industry in Western Australia than he alleges the industrial trouble in the "building industry in New South Wales has caused? Will he give urgent consideration to this vital matter as requested in the many petitions presented to this Parliament on this subject? 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  in the debate on the Customs Tariff Bill apologised for the late hour at which that debate was brought on and said that he would try to bring on tariff Bills earlier in the session in the future to allow for a fuller debate. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  who is in charge of Commonwealth employees compensation might follow his admirable example. It is noticeable that this debate is always brought on late in the session and usually in the early hours of the morning. This does not allow justice to be done on a matter that is so vital to the interests of over 300,000 Commonwealth employees and also national servicemen militia and men serving in certain sections of the forces. 
Having said that, I would like to refer to the Bills now before us. The Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill is, of course, to amend the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act pending the establishment of the proposed new code of workers compensation for Commonwealth employees which has already been introduced but which has been further delayed. This delay is one of a long series of delays going back as far as 1964 when the then Prime Minister stated that the amendments to the compensation code submitted by the Opposition 'would be further considered during the forthcoming recess'. In 1967, 3 years after the first promise was made, the Minister assisting the Treasurer at the time in his second reading speech said: ] am happy to be able to inform the House that the Government has now virtually completed its examinations of the many other proposals for amendment of the Act put forward by honourable members and other interested parties in recent years and it is hoped that it will be possible to introduce amending legislation giving effect to the Government's decisions before the end of this session. 
On 6th June 1968 the treasurer at that time announced: the Government expected to submit a Bill for a new and revised compensation Act during this cession. 
Towards the end of the year a Bill was introduced to amend the rates only and the Minister assisting the Treasurer at the time had this to say: 
Honourable members will recall that, in his statement to the House on 6th June 1968, the Treasurer announced that the Government expected to submit a Bill for a new and revised Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act during this session. The drafting of that Bill, which is, by any standards, a major one, is proceeding. 
That was the autumn session following the session when the legislation was expected to be introduced. Later in the year the Treasurer said in this Parliament: 1 regret to inform the House that because of a number of unforeseen difficulties which arose during the review of the compensation legislation by a committee of Ministers and later during the drafting stage, it has nol been possible to complete the drafting of a Bill that could be introduced during the pre-en: session of Parliament. 
Now, 6 years will have elapsed between the first promise and the performance - that is, if the new code comes down in the forthcoming autumn session. The procrastination that has taken place is to the eternal discredit of this Government. The Treasurer should remember also that the performance falls far short of the promise that was made that a new code would be introduced. This Bril amends some of the rates to bring them up to those contained in the new code that has been withdrawn for the time being. In some respects it provides for higher rates than those in some of the States, but in many respects it falls far short of the State provisions, lt is our view that all workers compensation Acts in Australia should be co-ordinated with the objective of ensuring that uniform benefits and payments are made available to all workers covered by the Acts. I would have thought that in the new code the words by accident' would have been deleted from section 9 (1) of the existing Act, but we find that these words are to remain in the new code. Section 9 of the Act reads: 
If personal injury by accident arising out of or in the course of the employment by the Commonwealth is caused to an employee, the employer shall subject to this Act be liable to pay compensation in accordance with the First Schedule of this Act. 
The words 'by accident" are outdated. The words 'personal injury arising out of or in the course of employment' appear in the Acts of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia. The words 'personal injury by accident' appear in the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act and in other Acts such as the Seamen's Compensation Act, the Northern Territory Compensation Act, the Australian Capital Territory Compensation Act and the Papua-New Guinea Compensation Act. 'Personal injury in the course of employment' are the words that appear in the Tasmanian Act. It is clear that the words 'by accident' have for all practical purposes been deleted from the majority of the other Acts. It is very important to remember that a worker could be injured by radiation or some other means without an actual accident having occurred. Claims could be lost because the facte were such as to make it impossible to prove that something in the nature of an accident occurred. In those circumstances, the burden of proof that there had been an accident could not be discharged.  1  emphasise that point, and I hope that some consideration will be given to it when the Minister is giving further consideration to the new code. 
Under the First Schedule of this Bill the weekly rate of compensation for an employee without dependants will be increased to  S3 1.80,  for a dependent female to  $7.70  and for a child to  $2.80-  making a total of  $45.10  a week for a man, his wife and  2  children.  1  ask the Treasurer to consider the case of a worker with a wife and  1  child who may be off duty with a hernia which has been accepted as compensable. With his injury, the period off duty is usually  13  weeks; it is certainly  13  weeks if he is doing arduous work. Let us assume that his salary is the average adult wage of  $72.80  a week, which was the average adult wage - for the September quarter of  1969.  Since then it has increased but we will not take the highest average wage at this particular stage; we will treat it as though it was  $72.80  a week. Under this legislation, this man, his wife and  1  child, would get  S42.30  a week, so that over  13  weeks his loss in salary would be  $396.50.  This loss of earnings could be a tremendous loss for the family unit, particularly for the young married man who has commitments for furniture and maybe the purchase of a home. Hire purchase companies have to be paid, as does the mortgage on the home. A worker injured on duty should receive his average weekly earnings; he should not lose financially. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions has adopted the principle that a worker who is deemed to be totally or partially incapacitated for work should be entitled to receive during the period of his incapacity the amount of weekly earnings he would have received but for his injury. There is a justifiable reason for that amount being paid. Why should a worker and his dependants suffer a substantially reduced rate of earnings in the circumstances I have mentioned? The Government not only has the basic responsibility to protect workers against industrial hazards but it also has the responsibility to ensure that when a worker is injured he and his family are justly compensated. The weekly rates provided for in the amending legislation are inadequate to meet the average family needs. 
As the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has pointed out, the principle of no reduced income does apply in some of the New South Wales Acts. After a period of incapacity most workers find themselves in considerable debt for some time. It is not uncommon to hear of injured workers having to obtain personal loans from banks and other borrowing sources in order to make ends meet while they are incapacitated for work. I mentioned the case of a worker who was off duty with a hernia and receiving Commonwealth employees compensation. After being off duty for  6  weeks on compensation he went on to his accumulated sick leave for the remainder of the  13  weeks of his incapacitation. He could not afford to stay on the reduced rate provided under the compensation Act. All Workers Compensation Acts already have built in safeguards to ensure that only legitimate claims are met and that compensation payments are made only while the worker is actually incapacitated for work. That is a principle which should be applied and it is supported by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and by the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Hindmarsh pointed out that this provision already appears in some legislation. I do not propose to quote details of that legislation. 
I draw attention to the fact that in his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said that the new code would be reintroduced at a later time, suitably varied to take account of the situation that has emerged. He said: 
I said that the Government's mind was not closed so far as that Bill was concerned and that we stood prepared to consider on their merits suggestions for amendments during its passage. 
I hope that the points already mentioned will be carefully noted and considered before the new code is introduced. I note that in clause  29  of the new code provision is being made for reimbursement of the cost of repairs or replacements of artificial members and aids damaged or destroyed as a result of accident. I draw to the attention of the Treasurer the fact that there is no provision, as there is in the New South Wales Act, to cover the cost of examinations and prescriptions in connection with the repair or replacement of such articles. Nor is there provision for damage to clothing, as there is in the New South Wales and South Australian Acts. 1 note too that in the case of the death of a worker the compensation payable to his children to age 16 or student children to age 21 is higher in New South Wales than is proposed in this new code. In New South Wales the amount for a child in such circumstances is $5 a week. In the proposed new code it is at least a lump sum of $280 or $2.80 a week. 
It is true that the amount for a widow will be $12,000 under the new code. In New South Wales the amount is $10,000, but no doubt it will be adjusted before the end of the year when that legislation is being reviewed. But, even taking that into account, the New South Wales Act is better where there are children. 
Let me took at a situation which could arise. I take the example of a wife and 3 dependent children aged 6, 10 and 12, and the total amount which is received until the children reach the age of 16 years. Under the New South Wales legislation the total amount payable would be $15,200. Under the new Commonwealth code it would be $14,912. The  advantage under the New South Wales Act would be even greater in that example if the children remained at school after reaching 16 years and up to the age. of 21 years. Both the New South Wales Act and the new Commonwealth code arc better in this respect than any other State Acts under which lump sums are payable for a child, ranging from $200 in the case of Victoria to $300 in the case of Queensland. The weekly payments are $5 in the case of New South Wales and $2.80 in the case of the Commonwealth. lt is surprising to see that under clause 42 (1.) of the new code the amount allowed for funeral expenses for a deceased worker remains at $120. The amounts are $160 in New South Wales, $200 in South Australia and $163 in Western Australia. In Victoria reasonable expenses are allowed. In Queensland and Tasmania provision for funeral expenses is included in the amount allowed for medical expenses. The cheapest funeral now would cost at least $160 and cremations would cost very much more. I suggest that the Treasurer should review the maximum of $120 that is provided for funeral expenses in the new code. Surely it is not reasonable to leave the amount allowed for funeral expenses at that very low figure, lt is pleasing to see that compensation will be paid under the new code for loss of power of speech and for facial disfigurement However, we are not satisfied with the amounts that are provided. We would also like to know why no provision is made for toss of sense of smell or taste, as is made in the New South Wales Act under which $600 is allowed, which is little enough. The Treasurer might look at that point. 
The Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act, which in many respects provides benefits which are below the. standards of benefits provided in some of the Slate legislation, applies also to our national servicemen and to members of our militia and our Regular Army. If these lads are injured or meet their death by accident arising out of their service, they or their dependants, as the case may be, come within the ambit of this Act. That is before (he servicemen go overseas or after they return. They should be covered by the Repatriation Act from the time they enter the Services. It is ridiculous that men training for wars, who are subject to greater dangers than they would meet in their ordinary working life, should come under the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act. These men could be training with live ammunition or operating tanks. We ask that this matter be given consideration in future legislation. 
Whilst we claim that our national servicemen and members of our militia and our Regular Army should come within the ambit of the Repatriation Act from the time they enter the Services, the fact is that they now come under the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act. Consequently it should be the model Act in Australia, if for no other reason than that. It should contain the best possible provisions for our servicemen. It should not be worse in any respect than any of the State Acts. The fact that the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act covers our servicemen is an added reason why the Government should be condemned for delaying the long promised amendments to this Act. Whilst we reluctantly accept the improved benefits to be provided under this Bill - even though they are long delayed - we want to make it clear that we are not satisfied with them and that when the new code is being debated in the next session we will take the opportunity, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh mentioned, to introduce amendments which, if carried, as we hope they will be, will make the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act the best Act in Australia and a model Act for other countries to follow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he take steps to amend the taxation law: (a) to allow part-time students a claim for education expenses on a basis similar In that applying to full-time students; and (b) to allow the parents of students over age 21 the same deduction as that applying to students under 21. 
I should like to reply to one or two of the points that have been raised, mainly by members on this side of the House. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said that if the proposals were accepted we would be sitting for less time. In my view, and on the figures that have been supplied to us, we would be sitting for more time under the proposal that is before the Parliament than under the existing hours. The hours have been set out not in a report that was submitted to the Parliament but in a report that was submitted by our own committee, and they reveal that this is so. Under the proposal we would be sitting longer hours than we would be sitting under the normal hours of sitting in the present circumstances. The honourable member for Cunningham said there are corresponding duties to perform over the weekend - that members had corresponding duties to do. That is only natural. But, for God's sake, give those who have long distances to travel an opportunity to do those duties. 
How can a member carry out correspondence duties when he must travel for more than a day to and from Western Australia. Take as an example the case of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  After he lands at Perth he must travel 300 miles to Kalgoorlie and then return over that same distance to Perth. The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  after he arrives in Perth has to travel 100 miles or so lo Bunbury on a Friday or Saturday and then travel that distance again on a Monday back to Perth to return to Canberra. What about giving some thought to them? We do not get just a bus ride home to our State. It is not a trip of half an hour or an hour. It is a trip of pretty well a day. When Parliament sits on Friday, a member returning to Western Australia arrives in Perth very late on Friday night and gets home in the early hours of Saturday morning. Then, in the case of those honourable members I have mentioned, additional travel is involved in going to their home districts. For God's sake, give some thought to those members. My remarks do not apply only to members representing Western Australia. The position of each of those members is bad, but other honourable members who live in country areas are affected as well. 
I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  say that, if we adopted this proposal, we would be making a concession to the Government. Where is the concession to the Government? I look at this proposal as a concession to ourselves and to those whom we represent in our electorates. If we can sit for more time here and spend more time at home in our electorates, surely this should be our objective. Is this a concession to the Government? The proposal does not come from the Government. I see revealed before me the names of II persons who are members of the Standing Orders Committee. I see that 5 of those persons are members of my Party, 5 of them are members of the Government Parties and the remaining member of the Committee is  Mr Speaker.  This decision was a unanimous one. So, where is the concession to the Government? Also, I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  say that the majority of members from Western Australia would still go home of a week-end if the new proposed sitting procedure were adopted. He said that they were opposed to this proposal. Well, I have not seen one Western Australian member rise and say that he is opposed to it. All those to whom I have spoken support it. I do not know of one member from Western Australia who has revealed himself to me as being opposed to this new proposal. So, when the honourable member for Newcastle says that there is a majority of them, or some of them opposed to it, he should say who they are, because I do not know of them. 
I think that we ought to look it this proposal realistically. We should be reasonable about it. We should adopt this proposal, which is something new. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  raised another issue in regard to this matter. He referred to sitting hours. We are not even discussing this matter at the moment. 
Sitting hours are not being discussed. 
I know the sitting hours are set out. The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has said that we will have a separate vote on the matter of sitting hours. 
Yes, he said that this is a separate proposition. If the honourable member for Bradfield wishes to move any amendment on the subject of sitting hours, he will have the right to do so just as the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  who sits alongside the honourable member for Bradfield, said he would do when the time comes. I will leave it at that. The issue that we are deciding is whether we will adopt the new proposal as far as days of sitting are concerned. The remainder of the matter will be decided after that. I ask the House to support the proposal. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, although Aborigines represent only 2.5% of Western Australia's population, approximately 21% of all children who die under the age of 1 year are Aborigines. 
Is it also a fact that the proportion of Aboriginal children who die between the ages of 1 month and 12 months is approximately 20 times the death rate among white children. 
If the position is as stated, what is the cause of these high mortality figures in respect of Aboriginal children, and what action is proposed to reduce them. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. I refer to a part Aboriginal child named Barry McKenzie who was taken out of Western Australia without his mother's consent in April 1964. I have raised this matter by way of question several times and have been told that inquiries were proceeding. At one stage I was told that it had been referred to Interpol. Is the Minister in a position to advise the House of any later development in this matter? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Before I deal with my speech I should like to direct the attention of the House to what the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  had to say. The honourable member said that this was a sound Budget. It may be sound for those on very high incomes whom he in the main represents but it is not sound for those on lower incomes, pensioners and other recipients of social service benefits, as I will show during the course of my remarks. 
During the course of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  used the expression: 
. that to run significantly into deficit would be to step on the accelerator when the safe speed limit had already been reached. 
Honourable members may remember that I interjected and asked the Treasurer whether he thought he was driving a hearse and referred to him as 'Bury the Undertaker'. This is an expression which in my view admirably suits him. When one examines the Budget one sees how apt is the expression. The Treasurer in his opening remarks built up the hopes of all listeners when he stated that he proposed: 
. to make reductions in personal income taxation, especially on lower and middle income earners, estimated to have a value to the taxpayers concerned of $289m in a full financial year and $228m in 1970-71; we therefore make good - indeed more than make good - our undertaking to give substantial income tax relief to this large body of people; 
The collective spirit of this large body of people rose when they heard this statement but it very soon sank back to the grave when the dead hand of the Treasurer reached out and took more from them than he was handing out. Never before has such a shabby confidence trick been played on the Australian people. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had promised during the course of the last election to give taxation relief to people in the lower and middle income tax groups. This has been done, but in such a way that most of them will finish up in a worse financial position. In other words it is a thimble and pea trickhere you see it, now you don't 
Before I give some examples 1 direct attention to a comment by  Mr E.  F. Mannix, the co-editor of Butterworth's Taxation Service, which appeared in the 'Australian' of 21st August. The article stated: 

 Mr Mannix says the latest Budget assumes that there will be a 3.5% increase in the work force and an 8% increase in the average . earnings. Removing the factor attributable to the increase in work force, the estimated income tax to be received from individuals during 1970-71 is $2,933m, as opposed to $2,858m in 1969-70. 
In other words, those who paid income tax in 1969-70 are going to pay (75m more income tax in 1970-71; this, notwithstanding the fact that the Budget estimates that the income derived by primary producers will decline by about 22%. 
He goes on to give some examples. The article states: 
 A man presently earning $50 per week pays $6.80 tax per week, or 13.6% of his income. Assuming that he earns an additional 8% in the present year, his income will be $54 per week, upon which it appears that the new tax will be $7.10, or 13.15% of his income - a reduction of 3% and not 10%. 
He gave several other instances, which I do not want to quote. He also drew attention to the fact that in this assessment he was not taking into account the increase in sales tax which raises the price of goods. 
Let us look at the position of a man on an average weekly earning of about $70 who has a wife and 2 children.  His  income tax will decrease by 50c or 60c a week from 1st October but he faces increases in petrol tax that could easily absorb 20c to 25c a week; excise on cigarettes, as has been pointed out by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  that could take another 20c to 25c a week, as well as increased sales tax on dozens of other items which would more than absorb the rest of his reduced income tax. In addition, he has to pay $7 more for telephone rental. He has to pay increased postal charges. More will be needed by his wife for housekeeping. In addition, she has to pay more for her cosmetics. Let us remember, too, that all these increased charges have to be paid out before the income tax reductions take effect. The Treasurer has not only increased the cost of living but he has also increased the cost of loving. If honourable members look at the fourth page of the items that have been increased by sales tax amendments they will see that the sales tax on contraceptives has also been increased. Still, 1 suppose love will find a way, even though our spoil-sport Treasurer may put  a  temporary damper on things. 
This large body of people to whom the Treasurer refers will be much worse off as time goes on. Al) these increased charges in the form of sales tax, excise, telephone rentals etc. will remain with us for ever more, but the so-called reduction in income tax will be swallowed up by inflation in the very near future. Let us look at the pay-as-you-earn estimates in the Budget Speech. It can be seen that for the year 1970-71 the receipts from net pay-as-you-earn will increase by SI 90.3m. Even though the rates are reduced the Commonwealth will receive more in taxation. These pay-as-you-earn figures show expected increases in wages, but the fact is that money incomes will rise faster than real wages, thus placing wage and salary earners in higher income brackets, which means they will, pay higher income tax. It means also that the purchasing value of the take-home pay has been reduced. Tn order to make a decent living these days the wage earner has to have 2 jobs or work a lot of overtime. If he wants to buy a home his wife has to go out to work as welt. The Leader of the Opposition pointed out: 
The average wage earner in 1954 took 5 weeks work to pay his tax; in 1969 he look 9i weeks work. 
That is almost twice as much. Inflation and consequential wage rises will begin to operate immediately in the same way as they have done in the past 16 years - against the lower and middle income earners. 
The Leader of the Opposition pointed out that the system continues whereby 10% of the top income earners paid 58% of all personal taxation in 1954 but only 44% in 1968-69. Where the top 1% of wage earners paid 30% in 1954 they paid only 154 % in 1968-69. Do honourable members know that as average incomes move up the taxation scale the Government reaps about 30% of any real wage increase? This means that with every rise in money wages, even if real wages do not rise, the recipient goes into a higher income tax bracket? The family man suffers most, as tax allowances for dependants have not kept pace with inflation. This applies even more to the family man in the lower and middle income groups. These deductions have failed to keep pace with incomes. The Government's failure to adjust these dependants' allowances has meant that large families have had their relative tax advantage over the single man substantially reduced. On the other hand, the Government has found itself able to increase the allowance for life insurance and superannuation by over 200% since 1954. The present system of deductions assists the man on the higher income. Only those on very high incomes can take full advantage of the $1,200 allowable deduction for superannuation and insurance premiums. On existing rates he can save as much as $700 in tax so that the premium costs him only $500. A process worker would be lucky if he could afford $100 for a premium. If he could on existing rates, his policy would cost $87 - a saving of $13. Deductions for education favour those on high incomes. The high income earner can claim the maximum deduction of $600 for 2 children. Under existing rates his saving in tax is $330, making the cost $270. The process worker could not possibly afford to pay $600 for the education of 2 of his children, nor could he afford to pay half that. But if he did pay $300 he would save only $34 in tax. In other words, the public pays 55% of the education bill for the wealthy man and 1.1% for the process worker. 
By means of tables the Leader of the Opposition was able to show that 70% of households are worse off under the Budget. Most of them in the $4,000 to $5,000 bracket and below are worse off, and those in the higher brackets are better off. The table which is contained in Hansard shows that a householder receiving between $1,000 and $2,000 receives a tax relief of $2.10 and an added indirect tax burden of $27.90 over the year. The table shows that at the other end of the scale the householder with an income of just over $18,000 would receive a tax reduction of $467.70 and an indirect tax . increase through higher prices of $107.50. Where is the justice in this Budget? 
In this Budget, too, the Government continues to adopt an attitude of callous disregard for the aged, the invalid and the widows. An increase of 50c a week is an insult. In other words, it is an increase of 3.1%. This does not even keep pace with inflation. The Treasurer said: 
Cost and price increases gathered pace. Average weekly earnings rose by about 8% in 1969-70. The consumer price index rose at an accelerating rate throughout the year, reaching an annual rate of growth above 5% in the June quarter. 
Yet he gives the pensioner a 3.1% increase. This means that if things remained as they were the pension this financial year would buy a lesser quantity of goods than it did following the last Budget. But we know that things are not going to remain as they are. The pensioner, like other members of the community, is going to be faced with increased sales tax, increased telephone and postal charges and increased transport costs. Without doubt transport costs are going to rise as a result of this Budget. The Leader of the Opposition rightly drew the attention of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to the fact that, based on average weekly earnings of the March quarter of 1969 and 1970, the pension had declined from 22.3% of average weekly earnings to 21.7%. That is understandable, too, when the Treasurer in his Budget Speech stated that average weekly earnings rose by 8% in 1969-70. 
The Government is always happy to quote average weekly earnings to show how workers' wages have advanced. If that is the case the same guide line can be used to measure the value of the pension. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  said during the course of his speech on the Budget that the pensioners were better off under a Liberal Government than under Labor. The figures that can be quoted give the lie to that statement. In 1949, under a Labor government, the age pension wis 26.9% of average weekly earnings. That applied to both married and single pensioners. The single rate is now 21.7% and the pension for each of a married couple is 19.3% of average weekly earnings based on the March quarter. There was no mention in the Budget of some progress being made towards the abolition of the means test, which was so strongly advocated by the Minister for Social Services when he was a backbencher. Of course, now he has gone to cover. He has become a Minister. In view of his advocacy of this much needed reform, one would have thought that something would have been done about it or at least something would have been done to ease the means test. Let us look at the means test. In 1954 a single pensioner received a pension of $7, and the allowable income was exactly the same - $7. A married couple received a pension of $14 and the allowable income was $14. The pension now is $15.50 a week for a single pensioner and the allowable income is $10, so the value of the allowable income has dropped from 100% in 1954 to 64.5% now. The married couple pension is $27.50 a week and the allowable income is $17, a drop from 100% to 61.8%. The Government made quite a song, some 5 years ago, when it increased the amount of allowable income to $10 for a single pensioner and $17 for a married couple. It was the first increase in the allowable income since 1954. In fact, it did not represent the same value as regards purchasing power as did the amount of the $7 allowable income in 1954. Due to increased costs of living in the last 5 years the value of the allowable income has been reduced further. True, a tapered means test has been introduced, but this is a means test within a means test, and it means, in effect, that a pensioner earning 'over the allowable income can keep 50% of what he earns. In fact there is a tax of 50c on every $1. Every recipient of social service benefits has been short-changed since this Government took office. Increases in social service benefits have not kept pace with price increases. Benefits are always dragging behind costs. 
As a result of inflation over the years, as 1 have pointed out, taxpayers have passed into higher income lax groups and they get less in their pay packets and the Government takes more from them in taxation and gives them less in return. The taxpayers have been giving good money for bad. They have been contributing to the National Welfare Fund in the form of taxation and they have been getting shrunken benefits in return. The value of the dollar has shrunk to less than 40c compared with its value in 1949. The people are losing in 2 ways: The value of social service benefits has been clipped just as though an extra tax had been imposed on the people, and people have moved into higher income tax ranges without getting any more purchasing power in their pay packets. This Government stands condemned for its callous disregard of our aged and invalid people. One would almost think it was a crime to grow old. Instead of making their twilight years more pleasant this Government seems to take a delight in making their lives a misery. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his first Budget is responsible for squeezing many sections of the community. In fact, the squeeze commenced some months before the Budget was brought down. A squeeze was placed on the building industry a few short months ago. This Government regards housing finance as an economic weapon. When the economy is a bit slack finance is provided for additional housing. When the economy has recovered and the need for housing is at its greatest the Government cuts back on housing finance. Finance for housing should be based on the needs of the community and should not be used as an economic weapon in the stop-go policy of the Government. Overall there is a steady deterioration in the number of houses that can be built for those on low incomes. In 1968-69 the State Housing Commissions built only 8,488 dwellings although over 51,000 applications were lodged during that year and there was a lag of over 76,000 at the end of 1968-69. This is a serious situation for those on low incomes. They cannot afford high rents. Their only hope of owning a home is to buy it through the State Housing Commission. I was interested in a statement made by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  on 16th July 1970. She said: 
The tact that the overall decline in home building activity that has occurred has produced a barely significant increase in unemployment amongst skilled building workers, apart from bricklayers in Western Australia. 
Obviously if bricklayers are unemployed in Western Australia other building workers must have been affected similarly. That is actually what took place. The fact that cannot be ignored is that the building industry has been hard hit by the policy of this Treasurer and the Government. Figures released by the Deputy Statistician in Western Australia show that in the June quarter Western Australia had the sharpest decline of any State. There were 3,650 approvals during the June quarter, which was 1,215 fewer than in the March quarter. Land speculators have been making huge profits at the expense of home builders. Land prices are more stable now, it is claimed, but are excessively high. Since 1950 land prices have jumped. In some areas land has doubled in price each 5 years and in other areas land has doubled in price in less than 4 years. Land prices are higher in Perth than in any other city. The cheapest of blocks costs about $5,000. This means that with a deposit of $1,000 to buy, such a block will cost the buyer $17.50 a week for 5 years - a total of over $7,000. 
It has been suggested that the land boom has subsided. It did for a period, but land prices are starting to rise again. An editorial in a weekend newspaper last week revealed that at City Beach in Perth blocks of land were- sold for an average of $10,000 each. Two blocks sold for $14,000 and at St Lucia 2 blocks sold for $27,000 each. This indicates the situation with land prices. The Western Australian Liberal Government has failed the people just as the Commonwealth Government has failed the people. The credit squeeze and the increase in interest rates have made it more difficult for young couples to buy homes. More and more couples are having to borrow housing finance at high interest rates. Some in Western Australia are paying mortgage brokers 124% because the building societies and the banks have been forced by this Government to restrict lending for houses. The rate of 124% is about 4% more than charges made by building societies and about  5i%  higher than some bank rates. The Government should be forcing interest rates down, not forcing them up. 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has pointed out, 75% of all housing loans from institutional lenders are now made at rates of interest which, in total, substantially exceed the value of the loan itself. The cost of interest on an $8,000 savings bank loan in 1949 totalled $4,456; it now totals $8,440. It is pointed out also that 24% of all home buyers are obliged to secure an average of $2,000 from fringe lenders outside the banking system at very high interest rates. If this Government really wanted to assist young people to secure their own homes why does it now allow interest on housing loans as a taxation deduction as is done in the United Kingdom? Surely this is something to which the Government could give consideration. In Western Australia there are over 19,000 on the State Housing Commission books awaiting accommodation,  fa A  years the waiting period has gone up from 14 months to 4 years for a purchase home. For a rental home the watting period is nearer 5 years. Emergency cases - people living on verandahs, in caravans and in condemned houses - have to wait an excessively long tim 
In the time available to me I have raised three or four matters that are concerning the people and in respect of which the Budget has proved deficient. There are many other matters. Those that I have raised concern the failure of the Government to introduce any semblence of income tax reform; its failure adequately to restore value to social service benefits; and its failure adequately to assist in the provision of housing for the people. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition is a challenge to the Gorton Government to face the people. It condemns the Government for bringing down a deceptive and negative Budget which fails to meet the needs of the Australian people. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  feels so sure that the Budget is acceptable to the people why does he not accept the challenge? For over 20 years Liberal governments have been fooling the people, but it cannot fool them all the time. They are a wake-up to the Government. The skies are black with the chickens coming home to roost, and when they land the Government is going to get it where the chicken got the axe. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
lt is noticeable that the Government speakers so far have had to go back 23 years or so, to the 1940s, to find adequate comparisons to boost what they say they have done for the pensioners. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  produced a table which he claims is based on the cost of living index and shows that the real value of the pension has increased since 1947. So what? Maybe he is correct, but standards change over the years. What were once luxuries have now become necessities. For his comparison he goes back to the days of the washing board, the broom and the Coolgardie safe. These are the days of the washing machine, the vacuum cleaner and the refrigerator. They are now necessities; every family needs them, including the aged, the invalid and the widows. The Government claims that we live in an affluent society. There is grave doubt about that as far as some sections of the community are concerned, but if it is so, then every section of the community is entitled to enjoy that affluence. The Minister relies on an outdated method to assess the value of the pension - a method that was used to adjust the basic wage. It is not used now because the basic wage has gone out of existence, and a minimum wage has taken its place. 
In this Budget the Government continues to adopt an attitude of callous disregard for the aged, invalid and the widows. Fifty cents a week increase is an insult. In other words, it is an increase of 3.1 per cent. This does not even keep pace with inflation. This is what the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said during the course of his Budget Speech: 
Cost and price Increases gathered pace. Average weekly earnings rose by 8 per cent in 1969-70. The consumer price index rose at an accelerating rate throughout the year, reaching an annual rate of growth above 5 per cent in the June quarter.' 
But he gives the pensioner a 3.1 per cent increase. This means that if things remained as they were the pension this financial year would buy a smaller quantity of goods than it did following the last Budget. But we know that things will not remain as they are. The pensioner, like other members of the community, will be faced with increased sales tax, increased telephone and postal charges and increased transport costs. Without doubt transport costs will rise as a result of this Budget. The increases provided for in this Budget will be swallowed up in increased prices before many weeks have passed. The usual pattern is for pensions to be increased every 2 years. Consequently, no sooner do they catch up with increased prices than the value of the pension commences to decline. 
The monetary value of the increases granted to pensioners in this Budget has never been less, because the value of the dollar in terms of purchasing power has never been less. In terms of purchasing power a 50c increase in the pension last year or the year before would buy more goods than the 50c given in this Budget. Year by year inflation reduces the value of the dollar and consequently it reduces the amount of increase in the pension. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  rightly drew the attention of the Minister for Social Services to the fact that based on average weekly earnings of the March quarter 1969 and 1970 the pension had declined from 22.3 per cent of average weekly earnings to 21.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is understandable too, when the Treasurer states that the average weekly earnings rose by 8 per cent in 1969-70. The Government is always happy to quote the average weekly earnings to show how workers wages have advanced. If that is the case the same guideline can be used to measure the value of the pension. The members of the Government parties have already gone back to 1949. Let me mention something about 1949. In that year under a Labor Government the age pension was 26.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. That applied to both married and single pensioners. The single rate is now 21.7 per cent of average weekly earnings and the pension for each member of a married couple is 19.3 per cent, based on the March quarter for 1970. 
There is no mention in the Budget of some progress being made towards the abolition of the means test which was so strongly advocated by the Minister for Social Services when he was a backbencher and from which he has now gone to cover. Before he became Minister for Social Services he took every opportunity in this place to advocate the abolition of the means test. I draw the attention of honourable members to his speech of 17th September 1963. On 20th August 1965. He said: 'The means test is an extravagance which the Australian economy can no longer afford'. On 13th October 1965 he said: "The means test is an economic anachronism and is one of the things which is eroding the root of the Australian economy.' The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has indicated his opposition to the abolition of the means test and the Minister for Social Services appears to have come into line. To quite a number of people it is humiliating to have to go before an officer of the Department of Social Services and submit themselves to all sorts of questions about their private affairs. It is assumed that the poor will try to cheat, and consequently they are subjected to all sorts of embarrassing questons. The abolition of the means test would remove this embarrassment and would relieve the Government of the tremendous cost of administering and conducting these investigations. 
The age pension should not be considered as a handout. It is the right of those who have contributed throughout their working lives that they should receive something in return. The pension is no more a handout than the grant that may be given to the professor for scientific research; no more a handout than what the farmer receives as a subsidy for wheat production, or what a dairy farmer receives portion from the $26m subsidy, or what the cotton grower receives as part of the $4m cotton bounty. In view of his advocacy of this much needed reform one would have thought that some move in that direction would have been revealed, but that is not the case. In 1954 a single pensioner received a pension of $7 and the allowable income was $7. A married couple received a pension of $14 and the allowable income was $14. The pension is now $15.50 a week for a single pensioner and the allowable income is $10. So the value of the allowable income has dropped from 100 per cent in 1954 to 64.5 per cent now. The married couple pension is now $27.50 a week and allowable income $17 - a drop from 100 per cent to 61.8 per cent. 
The Government made quite a song 5 years ago when it increased the amount of allowable income to $10 for a single pensioner and $17 for a married couple. It was the first increase in the allowable income since 1954 and in fact did not represent the same value as regards purchasing power as did the amount of the $7 allowable income in 1954. 
Due to increased cost of living in the last 5 years the value of the allowable income has been further reduced. It is true, of course, that the Government introduced what was known as the tapered means test which has been praised so strongly by the other side during the course of this debate. This was adequately answered by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  The tapered means test means that a pensioner earning over the allowable income can keep 50 per cent of what he earns until he reaches a given figure that has already been quoted in this House. In effect a 50c tax in every$1. Every recipient of social services has been short changed since this Government took office. Increases in social services benefits have not kept pace with price increases - benefits are always dragging behind costs. 
As a result of inflation over the years, taxpayers have been passed into higher income tax groups and although they get less in real wages in their pay packets, the 
Government takes more off them in taxation and gives them less in- return. For some years now the people have been the victims of a thimble and pea trick. They have been giving good money for bad. They have been contributing to the National Welfare Fund in the form of taxation and getting shrunken benefits in return. The value of $1 has shrunk to less than 40c as compared with 1949. The people are losing in two ways. The value of social service benefits has been clipped, just as though an extra tax had been imposed on the people, and the people have moved into higher income tax ranges without getting any more purchasing power in their pay packets. This Government stands condemned for its callous disregard of our aged and invalid people. One would almost think it was a crime to grow old. Instead of making their twilight years more pleasant, this Government is making them a misery. 
It is to be regretted that the wife, who is under age 60, of an invalid pensioner or an age pensioner who is unemployable still has an allowance of only $7 a week. This means that a couple, unless the wife can find work, have to live on a miserable pittance of $22.50 a week. If she has an invalid husband she may not be able to work. Also it is difficult to get back into industry if she has been out of it, for instance, for any time. Labor's policy provides for a wife in such circumstances to get the full pension. The discrimination between a single pensioner and married pensioners continues. The Government was responsible for reducing the value of the married couple's pension as compared with the single pension. The ludicrous position arises that 2 sisters living together, or 2 brothers, or a brother and a sister, or indeed an unmarried couple are much better off financially than a married couple, as regards both pension and allowable income. They can get $3.50 more pension between them if they are not married and with the allowable income they can have $6.50 a week more between them. 
The Government should restore the value of the pension paid to married couples and the allowable income, until such time as the means test is abolished, should be the same for a married pensioner couple as it is for 2 single pensioners living together. The Minister should bear in mind too that the cost of maintaining a home these days is often more expensive than paying rent. There is a strong case for supplementary assistance to married pensioner couples who own their own home. Single pensioners can get supplementary assistance up to $2 a week for rent subject to a means test. Something should be done for married couples who bear the cost of maintaining a home. This is about the first time the Minister for Social Services in introducing social service legislation has not used as an argument the amount as a percentage of gross national product that the Government is spending under the Social Service Act It is true that the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  spoke on this matter but I do not think he quoted figures which have been used before as a basis for comparison. In a previous debate the Minister for Social Services pointed out that the amount as a percentage of gross national product rose from $149m in 1948-49 to almost $793m in 1967-68 and to $85 1.3m in 1968-69. If we take the figures as a proportion of gross national product we find that the amount spent on social services in 1949 was 3.4 per cent; in 1967-68 it was 3.3 per cent; m 1968-69 it was 3.1 per cent; and in 1969-70 it was 3.2 per cent. For this year the estimate is that it will be 3.2 per cent of the gross national product. So this clearly indicates that the Government is paying out in social service benefits about the same percentage of gross national product as did the Chifley Government in 1949. 
What has to be remembered is that in 1949 the population was 7.8 million people. It is now 12.5 million people or thereabouts. This means that the percentages in the age groups has been disturbed. According to a statement at page 55 of the 18tb report of the Director of Social Services 1968-69, in 1949 the number of age pensioners as a percentage of population was 4.06, but in June 1969 the number of age pensioners as a percentage of population was 5.75. This means that the amount spent on age pensions as a percentage of gross national product in 1969 as compared with 1949 was spent over 41.3 per cent more pensioners. In other words, where the Labor Government in 1949 was supporting 8 pensioners, this Government in 1969 was supporting 11. Of course, approximately the same proportion of the gross national product is being spent on social service benefits which shows, as 1 say, that this proportion is roughly the same. 
The same argument applies to child endowment. Page 61 of the same report shows that in 1969 the number of endowed children was 1,050,357. The number in 1969 was 3,790,120. Therefore, the number has increased nearly 3i times. The amount, spent on child endowment increased from $57.4m in 1949 to $184m in 1969. More is being spent on child endowment but less is being received in purchasing power by the endowed children. On the Minister's own figures in the additional information he supplied the consumer price index has jumped from 46.9 in 1949 to 108.7 in 1969. If the figures are analysed they show that this is an increase of 131.8 per cent. This is the difference between 1949 and 1969. If we look at the last column of the report we see that the average annual rate paid to endowed families has increased from $90,796 to $108,098, an increase of only 19.1 per cent. These figures have been checked by the statistical section of the Parliamentary Library. As the Minister made his comparisons with 1949, he can hardly object if we do the same. In 1949 a man with a wife and 2 children on the minimum wage paid $1.60 a year in income tax. A man with the same family on the minimum wage now pays $2.55 a week or $132.60 a year. He will pay $2.30 a week under the new scale, a saving of 25c a week which will be swallowed up by increased sales tax and other increased charges. But the important point is that he pays more income tax in a week than the 1949 family in similar circumstances paid in a year. The minimum wage, of course, now is around $42.60. 
In 1949 child endowment paid to a family of 3 children represented an amount of 11.3 per cent of the average male earnings. A man, his wife and 3 children is close to the size of the average family. The family with 3 children now gets  S3  child endowment. The average male earnings are now over $70 a week. Therefore, the child endowment represents less than 5 per cent of the average male earnings. A comparison with the minimum wage also shows how the value of child endowment has dropped over the years. In 1948 with a minimum wage of $11.60 a family of 5 children received $4 a week in child endowment. The same size family now gets $6.75 although the minimum wage now is $42.60. To retain the same relationship the child endowment should now be over $12 for a family of 5. The recent Budget was not a family budget. There was no increase in child endowment to make up for loss of purchasing power through inflation over the years. 
If we look at other social service benefits we find that they also have shrunk in value. The value of the funeral benefit for pensioners has dropped considerably and should be increased considerably in order to put purchasing power back into that benefit. The funeral benefit was created in 1943 and it has remained unaltered for 24 years. The maternity allow.ance has been referred to and I will not go into that question at this point of time. However, from the inception of maternityallowances in 1912 until this Government came into office the allowance would always pay the expenses associated with the birth of a child. That is not so today. Consequently married couples are putting off having children. Both husband and wife have to go to work in most cases to get their home together before having children. 
I do not want to take up any more time of the House. The Government has placed a restricted period of time on this debate. With this in view I, together with other speakers, undertook to discontinue my remarks after I had spoken for 20 minutes. Before concluding I want to say that I support the amendment that has been so ably moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on the following grounds: 
the increases proposed are inadequate, 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living, 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty and 
a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. 

 - Mr Speaker, my question is directed to you. I refer to standing orders 112 to 132, inclusive, dealing with petitions. I point out that some hundreds of petitions have been presented to this House this session praying that certain action be taken on many matters affecting the people of Australia. Will you advise the Parliament of what happens to such petitions after they have been presented and whether petitioners are not wasting their time preparing and signing such petitions? Is it not a fact that a committee examines all petitions presented to the House of Commons and makes  a  report to that place concerning such petitions? Will you consider recommending something similar in this place? 
I second the amendment. 
I will speak now. Like other honourable members I will be raising my objection to the limited period that has been allowed for this debate. I rise to support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and to support his remarks strongly criticising the increased postal charges that will result from the amendments contained in this Bill. Telephone rentals and other increased charges amount to $42m for the remainder of 1970-71 and they will amount to $53m for a full year. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  announced the increases in his second reading speech and he told us that there would be an increase of lc a word on the ordinary telegram rate bringing the charge to 48c for the first i2 words and 4c for each additional word which, of course, represents an increase of 331 per cent with a double rate for urgent telegrams. Existing telephone rentals are to be increased by $7 per annum and the service connection fees are to rise from $30 to $40 despite the fact, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out, that the telecommunications section of the Post Office showed a profit last year of $19m. 
Included in the increased postal charges is an increase from 5c to 6c for the first ounce of a letter or postcard. This represents an increase of 20 per cent. We should remember too that it was only in 1967, if I remember correctly, that this charge was increased by 25 per cent. Of course it is now being increased again. Like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, I have received quite a lot of correspondence from different bodies drawing attention to the anomalies that exist in this legislation. The Royal Automobile Club of Western Australia, for instance, draws attention to its position and I will just quote one paragraph from its letter. It says: 
That periodicals for motoring organisations are specifically listed in category 'B' (bulk postage) now means an added $16,000 to our journal postage bill in the next 12 months - an increase of 200 per cent. Because of the function of the publication in disseminating news and informatior on matters affecting most of the community I suggest that  a  reclassification into category 'A' would be justified. 
There axe letters of a similar kind dealing with other aspects of the same matter. This ms been referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and there is no need for me to go into them in any detail. But it is clearly indicated, as he pointed out, that  some  anomalies exist when the increases range from 20 per cent to 200 per cent. There are other increases, of course, but I do not propose to deal with them in detail. Priority mail has certainly made an improvement in the speed of postal deliveries and we hope that this keeps up. But I am sure that we as members still get plenty of complaints about other postal services. I know I do. But I must say that when I receive complaints and refer them to the Department they are thoroughly investigated and a courteous reply is always received. But that does not alter the fact that the service is not all that it should be. We know, of course, that in some areas there has been a reduced service in recent years. 
The Postmaster-General told us in 1968 that letter deliveries were to be reduced from 3 to 2 a day wherever that service was operating and later a further reduction took place to 1 a day to all centres outside the inner capital city areas. It is true that priority mail at an increased charge overcomes this to some extent, but looking at the overall picture the Postmaster-General's Department is not keeping pace with our growth of population and the rapid increase of business as a result of that growth This is a difficult problem but it is one that has to be faced. It is being faced, of course, in some other countries which have similar problems but which are trying new methods of administration. We have suggested in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that a joint select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the desirability and practicability of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. The Postmaster-General has previously opposed this proposition and I suppose he will do so again during the course of this debate. But I ask him whether he is satisfied with the existing post office organisation. 
Is there not a lesson to be learned from the re-organisation of the Post Office that is being undertaken in the United Kingdom and the United States? These countries have already taken steps to reorganise their post offices into public corporations. I think that we should at least be doing something along the lines suggested by our amendment to look into the practicality and desirability of such action in this country. The only reform that has been introduced here, if one can call it that, is to establish a fund into which the profits, if any, are to be paid instead of going into Consolidated Revenue. The Post Office has no power to borrow and the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs must continue to go cap in hand to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  for funds. The shackles remain and the Post Office continues to be hamstrung. The British Government some years ago established a Post Office trust fund on similar lines to what was done by the Postmaster-General recently, but it was found that that did not solve the problem. The Government went further and gave the British Post Office the power to raise loans. The British experience showed that this did not solve the problem and legislation was then passed to establish a public corporation. The necessary Bill was passed by the House of Lords on 14th July 1969. 
The steps taken here are of little or no use in the re-organisation of the Post Office. In my view similar steps to those taken in the United Kingdom and in the process of being taken in the United States are necessary. In the weekly compilation of Presidential Documents of 2nd June 1969 the  President  of the United States in his Message to Congress said this: 
Two years ago, Lawrence F. O'Brien, then Postmaster-General, recognised that the Post Office was in 'a race with catastrophe', and made the bold proposal that the postal system be converted into a government-owned corporation. As a result of  Mr O'Brien's  recommendations, a Presidential Commission was established to make a searching study of our postal system. After considering si! .'.......,;... thi Commission likewise recommended a government corporation. Last January,  President  Johnson endorsed that recommendation in his State of the Union message. 
One of my first actions as  President  was to direct Postmaster-General Winton M. Blount to review that proposal and others. He made his own first-hand study of the problems besetting the postal service, and after a careful analysis has reported to me that only a complete reorganisation of the postal system can avert the steady deterioration of this vital public service. I am convinced that such a reorganisation is essential. 
The arguments are overwhelming and the support is bipartisan. Postal reform is not a partisan political issue, it is an urgent national requirement. 
That statement could be adopted almost word for word to describe the present situation of the Australian Post Office. The vital difference, of course, is that our Postmaster-General does not seem to be doing very much about it. I draw attention again to the final words of the President's message: 
The arguments are overwhelming and the support is bipartisan. Postal reform is not a partisan political issue, it is an urgent national requirement. 
This applies to Australia. On 12th August of this year  President  Nixon signed into law an Act to reform the United States postal system. The Act sets up a corporationstyled federal agency, the United States Postal Service. Top level management decisions will be in the hands of an 11-man board of directors. Nine governors will be appointed by the  President  and confirmed by the Senate. The PostmasterGeneral and his  Deputy  PostmasterGeneral will be the other 2 members of the 11-man board. Modernised buildings are planned as well as a greater degree of mechanisation for processing the mail, better management techniques and improved transportation arrangements. It is expected that there will be higher morale among postal workers as a result of better pay. greater opportunities for advancement and more satisfactory working conditions. The employees will remain government employees. They become members of the postal career service but they retain all rights they now enjoy under the civil service unless changes are made by provisions of labour contracts negotiated between the unions and the board of governors. 
Authorities in Australia have made similar recommendations. They are people who should know something about this matter.  Mr F.  P. O'Grady, for instance, a former Director of Posts and Telegraphs who retired about 4 years ago believes that the Australian Post Office should be a public corporation. He said so after he retired. After his retirement he was able to make certain statements that he could not make when he was head of that Department. After his retirement he was in a position to criticise the existing organisation of the Post office and he did so and I want to refer to some of his statements. In the 
Australian' of 30th October 1967 he is reported to have said: 1 think a public corporation would have a different approach to the public if it were given truly wide financial powers. It could arrange its business in a different way. At the present time a purely government department must adhere to the budgetary system of Parliament. In effect, you must not anticipate parliamentary approval for years ahead. 
Later in the report he said: 
This lack of knowledge of the future has always plagued the engineer in the Post Office in Australia. The Post Office has always been debarred from long term planning. A statutory corporation given proper financial powers would be able to make long term arrangements with banks or other suppliers of funds and it could so arrange its affairs that it could commit itself to very high capital cost projects which would not come into use until 5 years ahead and would still have sufficient funds for bread and butter items. 
He went on to point out how the public corporation might be empowered to raise money through the Commonwealth loan fund system, lt could raise money as do the State electricity commissions in some States - with approval to go to the market separately. It could also borrow from banks. The reason for bad staff relations in the Australian Post Office is not difficult to find. To a large extent it can be attributed to the existing set-up. lt has a staff of over 100,000 and yet the administration has no power to deal directly with the wages claims of its employees. The unions must first place their claims before the Public Service Board, then before the Public Service Arbitrator and, in the last resort, before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. During this tortuous route the Department of Labour and National Service has its say. Here we have delay pyramided on top of delay and, of course, it certainly is one of the factors that causes such a lot of discontent within unions that are associated with the Post Office. On this very point  Mr O'Grady  said: 
J have found myself completely humilitated when union deputations called on me. No matter what my views I was required to keep a poker face and not let them think by nod or wink that 1 was sympathetic to their case. 
He had to wait until his retirement before he could say this openly. He went on: 
It would seem that if the Post Office is to be made into a truly business undertaking, the number of outside bodies having a say in such important matters ought to be reduced to a minimum. T believe the Post Office should have only 2 bodies concerned - the Post Office managers themselves and the Full Court. There should be no other intermediary because this at best results in prolonged delays and at worse causes unnecessary friction between employees and management. 

 Mr O'Grady said also that if the Post Office is to be put on the basis of being a true business undertaking in reality and not just in name, divorcement from the Commonwealth Public Service Board would be quite essential. From discussions with unions associated with the Post Office it seems that all but one support the view that the Postmaster-General's Department should be divorced from the Public Service Board and made a separate department controlled by a public corporation. The union that objects is concerned with its lines of promotion in the Public Service, which is important to that union. We cannot blame it for being concerned about the situation but that should not be an insurmountable obstacle to any reform that may be necessary to improve the postal service. The other unions consider that if the proposed reform took place there would be better service to the community and industrial relations would improve. 
I have already drawn attention in the Parliament to the document relating to the re-organisation of the Post Office in Britain. This was referred to also by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. It was presented to the House of Commons by the Postmaster-General in March 1967. In paragraph 3 on page 3 of that report it is stated. 
The Government concluded that the process begun in 1932 should be carried to its logical conclusion. A public corporation should be created to run these great businesses with a structure and methods designed directly to meet their needs, drawing on the best modern practice. 
Paragraph 6 of the document reads: 
The Post Office is a major department of State. Practically the whole of it is involved in the constitutional change. This is an undertaking without precedent. However, Post Office services are an integral part of the nation's life. In addition to communications, the Post Office provides part of the machinery of the social security system, and many other kinds ot business are transacted at Post Office counters. The Government's objective is to create an authority which will be responsible for developing the most efficient services possible, at the lowest charges consistent with sound financial policies; carry on in a worthy manner the Post Office tradition of service to the public; develop relations with its staff in a forward looking and progressive way. 
These passages emphasise efficient service at the lowest charges and good staff relationships. On page 12 of the document there is reference to the authority developing relations with its staff in a forward looking and progressive way. Paragraph 52 reads: 
Without detriment to the responsibilities of managers to manage, the Government will expect the Corporation to promote the most constructive relationships between the management and the staff. The new Corporation will not be taking over an industry marked by bad industrial relations: On the contrary, a fine tradition of cooperation and consultation between the management and staff has been built up in the Post Office. The Government will expect the Corporation to ensure that this develops further in the new conditions and to set the highest standards in relationships with the staff. 
We know that staff relations have been pretty bad in Australia for some considerable time and it is something in respect of which we should be able to learn a lesson. The Post Office Corporation in the United Kingdom actually commenced operations on 1st October 1969. The responsibility for the day to day running of the Corporation lies wilh a board of 8 members whose chairman is appointed for a 5-year period. The Minister for Posts and Telecommunications - formerly the Postmaster-General - retains overall responsibility. As a public corporation the Post Office has new powers to borrow from sources other than the Exchequer, but the bulk of its finance still comes from that source. 
The amendment that we propose provides for the appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. The argument used against it is that the Opposition is already bound by its platform to support a public corporation, but we are not hidebound about this matter. 1 personally believe that a public corporation should be established, but if a joint select committee, after hearing witnesses, recommends otherwise, our present attitude could be altered if thought desirable. Such a committee may recommend something entirely different. For instance, it may recommend that only the telecommunications section be placed under a public corporation and not the Post Office itself. If it did, that certainly would have a big influence on the future attitude of the Australian Labor Party. 
The important point is the establishment of the joint select committee that we are suggesting to inquire into the desirability and practicability of the public corporation to which we refer, bearing in mind what is happening in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Whatever is done, nobody can deny that reform is needed urgently. But before reform takes place, a full scale inquiry must make some recommendations as to what should be done. That is why this suggestion has been made in the amendment moved. I express my regret again that I must cut my speech short because other speakers wish to debate this subject and because the time permitted for this debate has been reduced considerably. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has a request been received from the Government of Western Australia for financial assistance towards a standard gauge railway between Kalgoorlie and Esperance. 
If so, does the Government intend to assist in this project. 
If assistance will be given what form will it take. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice: 
To what extent has the installation of the S.T.D. telephone system contributed to the recently announced increased charges for telephone services. 
Is it a fact that many private subscribers would gladly have forgone the system rather than face the increased charges. 
Is it technically possible to allow for the optional connection to such a system. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report that the United States Department of Agriculture has ordered the Shell Chemical Co. to place a warning on its 'No-Pest Strip' stating that these strips were not to be used in kitchens, restaurants or areas where food is being prepared. 
If so, has his Department given consideration to issuing a similar warning regarding these strips in Australia. 
If not, why not. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the hon ourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The Government is clearly worried about the reactions that have rebounded as a result of the swipe the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  gave the building industry early in 1970. When he made this swipe he must have forgotten the speech he made about 5 years ago when he deprecated the fact that the building industry was used as a stop-go accelerator and brake for the economy. Recent statistics have shown that the brakes on the building industry were applied excessively by the Treasurer in the first few months of this year. They are now being eased but are they being eased sufficiently? Has sufficient notice been taken of the housing requirements of the Australian people? Will the amount authorised for borrowing be sufficient to meet the urgent needs of the many thousands on the State housing commission books who are waiting to purchase or rent a house? The government regards housing finance as an economic weapon. When the economy is a bit slack finance is provided for additional housing of course but it is never enough to meet the needs of the people. When the economy has recovered and the need for housing is at its greatest the Government cuts back on housing finance. 
Finance for housing should be based on the needs of the community and should not be used as an economic weapon in the stop-go policy of this Government. Overall there is a steady deterioration in the number of houses that can be built for those on low incomes. In 1968-69 the State housing commissions built only 8,488 dwellings although more than 51,000 applications were lodged during that year. There was a lag of more than 76,000 it the end of 1968-69. This is a serious situation for those on low incomes. They cannot afford high rents. Their only hope of owning a house is to buy it through the State housing commission. I was interested in a statement made by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  on 16th July this year. She said: 
The fact is that the overall decline in home building activity that has occurred has produced a barely significant increase in unemployment amongst skilled workers, apart from bricklayers in Western Australian. 
Bricklayers are the first affected when housing restrictions are applied but restrictions soon have a snowballing effect throughout the rest of the building industry. The Secretary of the Building Workers Union in Western Australia has pointed out that up to the end of June 152 tradesmen had either left the industry for other States or were working in other employment. 
The fact that cannot be ignored is that the building industry has been hard hit by the policy of this Government. Figures released by the Deputy Commonwealth Statistician show that Western Australia had the sharpest decline in building activity in the June quarter of any State. There were 3,650 approvals during the June quarter, 1,215 fewer than in the March quarter. The 'West Australian' on 31st August 1970 quoted the Deputy Commonwealth Statistician as saying that the total value of building approvals in Western Australia in July was $32. 26m compared with the monthly average of $32. 92m in 1969-70. He poined out, however, that the July figure was boosted by a record approval of $ 1 5.8m - nearly half the total, be it noted - to be expended on the building of offices, factories and buildings other than houses and flats. He went on to state that houses and fiats approved totalled 910 units valued at $ 10.47m compared with the monthly average in 1969-70 of 1,720 units valued at $18.73m. That is a severe reduction in the number of units approved for the housing of people. Taking Australia as a whole, housing approvals fell by more than 9 per cent in the first 6 months of the year while office block approvals rose by 70 per cent. In Western Australia there are more than 19,000 applicants on the State Housing Commission books awaiting accommodation. In 4 years the waiting period has gone from 14 months to 4 years for homes to be purchased and for homes to be rented the waiting period is nearer to 5 years. Emergency cases - people living on verandahs, in caravans and in condemned houses - have to wait an excessively long time to get accommodation. The emergency cases include people who have court eviction orders against them. 
Land speculators have been making huge profits at the expense of home builders. Land prices are more stable now but are excessively high. Since 1950 land prices have jumped. In some areas land has doubled in price each 5 years and in other areas doubled in price in less than 4 years. 
Land prices in residential areas of Perth are higher than in any other State. The cheapest of blocks is about $5,000. With a deposit of $1,000 to buy such a block, a buyer will pay $17.50 a week for 5 years, bringing the total cost of the land to more than $7,000. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has pointed out that in the Australian Capital Territory - this was also pointed out by the honourable member for Reid just some minutes ago - because of the system that works here, land prices have been kept at least stable and in fact in recent years have decreased. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  rejects the suggestion that grants should be made to the States to enable them to acquire, subdivide, develop and sell land at cost in order to keep down the price of land. The credit squeeze and the increase in interest rates have made it more difficult for young couples to buy homes. More and more couples are having to borrow housing finance at high Interest rates. Some are paying mortgage broken 12i per cent and, in some cases, 14 per cent. In the State House, on 11th August 1970,  Mr Claughton  addressed a question to the Leader of the House. He asked: 
Fs  it a fact that some  lenders  are advancing short term housing finance  at  rates  in  excess  of 14  per  cent? 
The Minister.  Mr Griffith,  replied: 
It is  understood that this would be  so.  That is a shocking rate of interest for young people to have to pay in order to obtain bridging finance. This is because the building societies and the banks have been forced by this Government to restrict lending for houses. The rate of 12i per cent is about 4 per cent more than the charges made by building societies and about  5i  per cent higher than some bank rates. 
This Government should be forcing interest rates down, not forcing them up as the Leader of the Opposition has pointed out. Seventy-five per cent of all housing loans from institutional lenders are now made at rates of interest the total repayment of which substantially exceeds the value of the loan itself. In 1949 the interest on a savings bank loan of $8,000 totalled $4,456. It now totals $8,440. It is also pointed out that 24 per cent of all home buyers are obliged to secure an average of $2,000 from fringe lenders outside the banking system at very high rates of interest. I have just quoted some of the rates of interest that are being charged. If this Government really wanted to assist young people to secure their own homes it should allow interest on housing loans to be a tax deduction, as it is in the United Kingdom. Why could this not be allowed as a tax deduction? lt would enable young people to have the opportunity of more easily acquiring their own homes. 
The proportion of flats being built to houses is excessive. A recent estimate stated that in Western Australia 1 flat was built for every 2.2 houses. I receive complaints from families who have had their names down for a State Housing Commission house but who have had to accept a flat. What sort of a life is it for a family with young children to live in a flat in a building of possibly 2 or 3 storeys? According to some reports, flat living is responsible for the growth in child delinquency. These types of dwelling are the slums of tomorrow. In fact they are actually terraces built on end, without backyards. When calculating the extent to which the housing position is deteriorating each year it is necessary to take into account both the increase in population and the demolition of existing houses. I do not know what the overall figure for Australia is, but in Western Australia it is estimated that 1,000 houses go out of circulation each year. They' are condemned, demolished for factories and offices or pulled down to build freeways. This number must be made up. 
Apart from the natural increase in population we must cater for those who come from overseas. A heavy burden is placed on the State to provide houses. This means that those who are waiting for homes have to wait for a longer period. Migration is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government, and therefore the housing of these people should become a Commonwealth responsibility. In Western Australia the proportion of migrants to population is higher than that of any other State. This places an added burden on the State. Instead of helping people to secure a home this Government has been responsible for making it more difficult. The credit squeeze has made housing finance more difficult to secure and has forced up interest rates. The housing situation for many people has become a hopeless one, and the blame lies squarely on the shoulders of this Government. For its deliberate action in setting back the building of houses this Government stands condemned. 
The Opposition proposes, as stated in the amendement so ably moved by the honourable member for Reid, that a national inquiry should be initiated to ascertain the nation's housing needs in the future; to identify the shortcomings of the building industry so that they may be quickly removed; to establish beyond doubt the priorities which should be observed in the provision of funds for housing; to overcome interest and deposit problems; and to provide land and housing at low cost by means of appropriate agreement between the Commonwealth, the States and local government authorities. 
Is the Prime Minister able to say whether some State governments and many private employers make up the pay of staff called up for national service? If so, will he agree to supplement the pay of Commonwealth public servants called up for national service to the amount which they would have received had they remained in the Public Service? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What -appropriations has the Parliament made for the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in each financial year since 1965-66, including the appropriation for 1970-71. 
What expenditure was incurred by the Bureau during each of the financial years 1965-66 to 1969-70. 
What cash balances have been carried over by the Bureau at 30 June for each of the financial years 1965-66 to 1969-70. 
Do these figures reveal a stationary or reducing financial provision for the activities of the Bureau. 
Is it a fact that cost rises have averaged about 3 per cent per annum over recent years. 
Does this mean that the Bureau is capable of undertaking less activity now than was the case before he was appointed to his present portfolio. 
If so, why has the Government decided that the activities of the Bureau are to be reduced by financial control of this nature. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
On what occasions has he. or his predecessors, determined under Section 18 of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act 1964 the maximum number of staff who may be employed by the Bureau. 
What has been the maximum number of staff determined on each of these occasions. 
How many staff has the Bureau recruited in each financial year since its establishment. 
How many staff have actually been employed by the Bureau as at 30th June in each year since its establishment. 
Can the Bureau adequately perform its statutory functions within the present maximum staff determination. 
Is the maximum number of staff who can be employed by the Bureau, as at present determined by the Minister, due to the stationary or reduced financial provision made for the Bureau's activities in recent years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The maximum number of staff has been determined under section. 18 on two occasions: 24th March, 1966 1st August, 1968. 
The maximum number of staff determined on these occasions was as follows: 24th March, 1966 - 50 1st August. 1968 - Maximum of 56 officers and/or employees reducingto 52 officers and/or employees on and from 1st May, 1969 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has a request been received from the Government of Western Australia for financial assistance to build barge-carrying ships for the State Shipping Service. 
If so, as this type of ship is urgently required for the development of the North-West, will be ensure that the assistance is granted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Report of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance recommend that special arrangements be made under which persons who object to being members of health insurance funds on grounds of religious conviction be' paid amounts equal to Commonwealth hospital benefits (at present $2  a  day) and Commonwealth medical benefits. 
If so, will he take action to implement this recommendation. 
If not, why not. 
There is an old saying that when one has a weak case one spends one's time abusing one's opponents. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  did just that. He did not answer the charges levelled at him by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It is a fact that, in recent months, we have witnessed Ministers of the Crown, headed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  blatantly using their positions to influence the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the interests of the employers. The honourable member for Hindmarsh has already drawn attention to the Prime Minister's statement as guest of honour at the annual dinner of the Chamber of Manufactures when he tried to influence the decision in the oil industry case which was delivered only yesterday or the day before. A report in the 'Daily Telegraph' of 6th August 1970 read: 
A packed dining room clapped  Mr Gortons  statement that a profitable industry should not be called  on to pay more in wages than industry generally. 
It was a picked audience, packed with members of the Chamber of Manufactures. No wonder it clapped. This is not something new. Incidents of this nature have been happening for some years. The former Treasurer at the annual dinner of the Metal Trades Employers Federation used the occasion to dictate to the  President  of the Commission, who was also a guest, what the attitude of the Commission should be in regard to the applications of the unions for increased wages in the 1967 work value judgment. So blatant were these attempts to influence the Commission that the  President  stated: 
Outside attempts to influence it are foolish, stupid and futile. They serve only to distract the Commission from the job in hand. 
However, the Ministers ignore this soft rebuke. The present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is one of the worst offenders.  His  prejudice against the workers is clearly apparent. When he was Minister for Labour and National Service he was guilty of making the most vicious attack on members of the Commission when it awarded increased margins to the metal trades unions in December 1967. He supported the employers in their claim that over-award payments should be absorbed into the margins.  His  view is that the minimum rale should be the maximum. He fired another barb later when he said it was not the job of the Commission to dream up economic theories or seek to determine the Government's economic policy. On 27th December 1967  Mr Justice  Gallagher and Commissioner Winter in a joint statement from the Bench rebuked the present Treasurer for his attack upon the Commission's decision in granting pay rises in the 1967 metal trades case. They said: 
We will not be influenced or intimidated by any parly, including Ministers. All extraneous utterances, whatever their source or nature, will be ignored. 
On 19th October 1970 the Minister for Labour and National Service warned against too high an increase in the national wage case. He said: 
I believe that the Commission cannot disregard the economic consequences of its decision. 
He referred to decisions of the Commission as having a significant impact on costs and prices. All these incidents, of course, show undue influence. They all show that Ministers of the Crown are exerting undue influence upon the Commission. The Commission has stepped into the economic field because the Government has failed miserably to live up to its responsibilities regarding the economy. The Government has failed to take action to control prices. It has allowed inflation to run riot, lt has ignored the report of the Committee of Economic Enquiry, commonly known as the Vernon committee. It has failed to act on the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which advocated a widening of the economic powers of the Commonwealth. The Government in fact has sidestepped its responsibilities with regard to the economy and the Arbitration Commission, rightly or wrongly, has been trying to fill this gap. 
How one-sided it all is. The Government believes the price of labour should be controlled and all the force of the legal machinery is used for that purpose. On the other hand employers and the Government refuse to exert any control over prices. The important point is that wage increases of themselves do not and cannot increase prices. Prices rise only when the employers and the commercial interests, including government undertakings, make firm decisions to increase prices without any restriction and without having to justify such increases. Decisions are arrived at without any evidence in the privacy of the board room. No question arises of the public interest being represented. Management does not have to justify in any way by argument or evidence before a public tribunal its decisions to increase the price of what it has to sell. Management: decisions are based on the fundamental rule that if costs increase, prices, which in the simplest terms determine employers' income, must be allowed to rise by at least as much as is required to cover increases in costs. But this right is denied the unions. Until I9S3 automatic adjustments of the basic wage protected the worker against an increase in prices. This protection was abolished by the court at the request of the employers, supported by this Government. The unions have to prove their claim for an increase but when an increase is granted the employers and management use this as a means again to raise the price of the products and increase their profits. Colossal profits continue to be made and these profits all come from the same source - the national income. 
While wage and salary earners have to prove their claims other persons take huge sums by way of profits and interest charges from the national income without having to justify their actions to anyone. In its 1964 judgment the Arbitration Commission emphasised that there was no control over incomes other than those covered by awards. The Commission said there was no authoritative control of prices while there was a tight control of wages. On page 66 of his reasons for judgment,  Mr Justice  Moore pointed out that the previous statement of the Commission that 'increases in prices are determined by those who fix prices' is a truth that cannot be emphasised enough. 
By its failure to take action to control prices this Government has allowed inflation to run riot. It has failed miserably to live up to its responsibility to control the economy. Now it wants the workers to carry the whole burden. The Prime Minister said at the annual dinner of the Chamber of Manufactures that if Australia was to achieve the destiny within its reach there was a heavy responsibility on the Government, trade union leaders and the Arbitration Court. There was no mention of any responsibility on the employers - the manufacturers whom he was addressing. No wonder they clapped, being left free to go their own sweet way to increase prices and make huge profits. On page 3 of his talk entitled 'Problems of Economic Theory and Industrial Administration' the Treasurer stated: 
The Government must be regarded as nol simply a law-making and administrative authority, but also as an employer in its own right. 
He went on: 
Employers in the private sector have to recognise the Government, as an employer, must recognise the interests of other employers, whether private or public. 
The Treasurer did not have to spell out something that was so obvious. If the Government's repeated submissions before the Commission were without prejudice no exception could be taken. If ever a government has shown its prejudice against the workers this Government has done so in its frequent intervention in wages hearings. Through its counsel it has repeatedly supported the submissions of the employers. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has registered its strong objection to the partisan submissions of this Government directed to denying workers justifiable increases in wages. Counsel for the Government asserts that he is appearing in the public interest whereas in fact he supports the claims of the employers. The Government has succeeded in shifting the responsibility for economic control and unpopular measures from itself to the Commission. Then it blames the Commission if it gives wage increases to catch up with increased prices. 
I referred earlier to the Commission's setting down minimum wages and to the fact that the Treasurer wanted the minimum to become the maximum. After the minimum has been established we come to what has been referred to by the  President  of the Commission as the 'collective bargaining area'. He mentions this on page 18 and 19 of his Tenth Annual Report - I have not time to quote it at length - in which he said: 
It has long been obvious that arbitration for minimum payments and bargaining for over-award payments must co-exist in this community. 
He says more about this subject in another section. In many cases both sides accept the decision of the Commission as being a minimum payment and then proceed to bargain for some amount over and above that which the award provides. This has been accepted by the Commission as being quite legitimate. If this collective bargaining area did not exist it would sound the death knell of the arbitration system as we, know it. This does not suit .he Government; hence these attacks on the Commission and on over-award payments. Ona would think the workers were living in the lap of luxury. In order for a family to have a reasonable standard of living nowadays, the husband has to have either 2 jobs or work a considerable amount of overtime, in addition to which his wife has to work. This is the only way in which a family can get a reasonable income in these times. At one time it was regarded as wrong for a wife to work but these days she has to in order to maintain the home. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town bousing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of bousing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Will the Minister for Social Services state whether some pensioners who were formerly in receipt of fringe benefits, such as medical benefits, are now losing those benefits because they earn a few cents over the allowable income which takes them within the ambit of the tapered means test, ls he prepared to allow pensioners who are in receipt of fringe benefits to continue to enjoy them? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned members of the International Film Theatre Inc. respectfully showeth. 
The members of the above, a film society of nearly 900 members, wish to commend the Government on its increasingly enlightened attitude towards the censorship of films. 
But they wish to bring before the Government their considered view that mature individuals should not be restricted in the material which they can see, hear or view, maintaining that the implication that decent moral standards may be eroded by the viewing of films is false and misleading. 
They believe that no case has been established for the censorship of films seen by mature persons over the age of 18 at screenings by properly constituted film societies, film festivals, libraries and educational institutions. 
They believe that the protection of immature persons can be achieved by the introduction of restricted exhibition and the adoption of uniform legislation and regulations in all States and Territories of the Commonwealth specifying age limits for admission to the public exhibition of films so classified as restricted. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled should heed the act on these submissions. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether some State governments and many private employers make up the pay of staff called up for national service. (2.) If so, will he agree lo supplement the pay of Commonwealth public servants called up for national service to the amount which they would have received had they remained in the public service. 
In view of the Prime Minister's answer to the honourable member for Macquarie in which he implied that there would be no increase in pensions m least until the presentation of the next Budget, does the right honourable gentleman agree that the purchasing power of the pension has been reduced since the pension was increased by the miserable sum of 50c following the Budget presented last August? If this is so, how can the Prime Minister justify his refusal to grant a further increase in pensions when so many people are finding it so difficult to maintain a decent standard of living on so small a pension? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that while parents can claim tax deductions for the education expenses of full-time students under 21 years of age, no claim at all can be made by a student who must pay his own way through university, even if he is under 21 and studies full-time. 
If so, will he take steps to amend the tax law to correct this apparent injustice. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that once a student turns 21 all tax deductions on his behalf cease, yet the average age of completing every university degree course is above 21 years of age. 
Does this mean that students in their final years, on the verge of entering Australian industry and the professions, suddenly find all financial assistance and incentives under the present lau removed. 
If so, will he take steps to amend the tax law to correct this apparent injustice. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that neither part-time students nor their parents can claim any deduction under section 82J of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
Is it a fact that a certain category of parttime student whose study revolves around an improvement of his capacity to do work for which he is paid can successfully claim under section 51 (1.) of the Act according to a decision  of  Sir Owen  Dixon, C.J. 
If so, will he take steps to enable all parttime students to claim this deduction. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that while universities increased all fees by 50 per cent to about $450 in the last 4 years, the concessional deduction for income tax purposes has remained static at $300. 
If so, will he take steps to amend the tax law to allow for a larger deduction. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What was the total cost of (a) advertisements throughout Australia similar to that inserted by his department in the 'West Australian' on 12 September 1970 advertising the telephone directory and (b) other advertising of the telephone directory. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has studied the fourteenth annual report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? If so, I ask him whether he noticed this passage: 
Members of the Commission decide matters before them on the arguments and material presented in the Commission's court rooms and not otherwise. This is the position whether or not the speakers are prime ministers, ministers, opposition leaders, presidents of the ACTU or of organised employers, or so on. 
In view of the soft rebuke of the  President  will the Prime Minister direct his Ministers to stop blatantly using their positions to influence the Commission in favour of employers, and will he apply this instruction also to himself? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What arrangements have been made with the States to label cigarette packages with the warning that smoking is dangerous to health. 
Is there any reason why the Commonwealth should not insist on such labelling in its own territories. 
Has the Prime Minister seen a statement by the General  President  of the Western Australian Farmers Union,  Sir Basil  Embry, in which he states that the Japanese were bidding to take over about 400,000 acres in the eastern States and that an undisclosed foreign company was interested in the Bunbury area? Did he state that it was time to make a stand on foreign takeover of Australian farm lands? Will the Prime Minister arrange for this matter to be discussed with the States with a view to stopping such takeovers? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to direct a few remarks to the appropriations under the 
Department of Health. 1 note under division 290 reference to a contribution ot $1,300 to the International Cancer Research Agency. The amount itself is somewhat insignificant, but I suggest to the Government that a more tangible way to assist those who are fighting the scourge of cancer would be to take a more active part in discouraging cigarette smoking. On 16th March I received an answer to question No. 2553 from the then Minister for Health. I asked him: 
What arrangements have been made with the States to label cigarette packages with the warning that smoking is dangerous to health? 
Is there any reason why the Commonwealth should not insist on such labelling in its own territories? 
He replied as follows: 
At the June 1969 conference of Commonwealth and State Health Ministers it was agreed that Ministers would recommend to their Governments that consideration be given to the adoption of a National Health and Medical Research Council recommendation that the label Warning, cigarette smoking is dangerous to health' should be placed on cigarette packets. 
The Commonwealth considers that there should be uniformity in such labelling and is prepared to introduce legislation for the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory when all States agree to introduce similar legislation. 
In my view, the Commonwealth could very well set the ball rolling by having the warning placed on cigarette packages in its own Territories, but it declines to do so. It suits the Commonwealth to be geared to the slowest State. The Commonwealth gets substantial revenue from cigarette smoking, as the various documents indicate. Excise from tobacco, cigars and cigarettes amounted to more than $245m for the financial year 1969-70. Of course, this to some extent must have a bearing on the Government's attitude towards cigarette smoking. The following report appeared in the 'West Australian' of 27th January 1971: 
Australian State and Federal Governments did not give enough financial support for cancer and heart research programmes, the world  chairman  of the finance committee of the International Union Against Cancer,  Sir William  Kilpatrick, said in Perth yesterday. 
He also said that in most cases the governments lacked responsibility to the people by failing to block unfair television advertising of cigarettes. 
After ten years  of  research, both the British Medical Association and the Surgeon-General of the United States had supplied indisputable evidence that cigarette smoking was one  of  the main causes of lung cancer. 
Cigarette advertising had been banned in Britain. Italy, the United States and many European countries. 
So it goes on. Of course, the vested interests in cigarette manufacturing claim that there is no absolute proof that cigarette smoking is a health hazard. I venture to suggest that many people have been hanged on far less evidence than we have today that cigarette smoking causes death by lung cancer and also causes the other ailments which have been mentioned from time to time. 
Since the beginning of 1971 cigarette advertising has been banned in the United States of America. Since 1965 there have been no cigarette advertisements on British television. In the recent 108 page report entitled 'Smoking and Health' by the Royal College of Physicians, British doctors called for all-round bans on cigarette advertising and the introduction of legislation to compel cigarette manufacturers to print warnings on their packets about the possible dangers of smoking to health. The report showed that anyone smoking. 24 cigarettes a day stands a 1 in 9 chance of contracting lung cancer. It also established a direct link between smoking and coronary thrombosis, high blood pressure; cancer of the bladder and gastric ulcers. It estimated- that 27,500 people die in Britain each year because they smoke cigarettes. The Imperial Tobacco Co. which dominates 67 per cent of the British cigarette market estimates that the overall sale of cigarettes has fallen by 10 per cent since the January report of the Royal Colleges of Physicians on smoking and health was made public. 
In the 'West Australian' of 7th January 1971 there is an article headed: 'Doctors are giving up smoking'. It is interesting to note a couple of extracts from this article. In part, it states: 
It seems that doctors have become alarmed by the number of deaths from lung cancer, heart disease and other respiratory complaints believed to be linked with smoking. 
The article gives the number of doctors who have given up smoking in order to assist in the campaign against smoking. The article states further: 

 Dr Moore said that if doctors were to have any marked success with their efforts' there would have to be a change in the attitude towards cigarette advertising. 

 Dr Moore said that he was tired of seeing ads in which women curl supposedly springtime fresh lips around glamorous 'cancer sticks'. 
The views of  Dr Moore  are quite interesting. All of us have seen these glamorous advertisements. To their credit, some world famous actors and actresses have refused to be associated with such advertising at great financial loss to themselves. They are to be admired - not so the glamorous Stuart Wagstaff who appears in television commercials regularly advertising cigarette smoking, even though he has thrown up the habit himself. It was no wonder that Barry Humphries in an interview recently said: This year I'd like to do for Australian comedy what Stuart Wagstaff has done for lung cancer'. 
Australia is doing less than other comparable countries to discourage cigarette smoking. The only control on tobacco advertising at present is a voluntary code initiated by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. The code is useless. Consequently, cigarette smoking is on the increase. In the 'West Australian' of 7th January 1971 under the heading 'Govt. Accused of Stalling on Smoking', we read: 
Australia's leading campaigner against smoking,  Dr Cotter  Harvey, tonight accused the Commonwealth and State governments of delay in banning cigarette advertising on television because of vested interests. 
Our Governments have admitted that smoking is harmful to health, but the opportunities for stalling on the issue seem to be endless,' he said. . 
I have here a table prepared for me by the Research Service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library which sets out statistics in relation to deaths due to lung cancer in Australia. Figures are given for the years 1950, 1954, 1959, 1964 and 1969 - that is, the figures at 5-yearly intervals. In 1950 the number of male deaths through lung cancer was 618. As a percentage of total male deaths this represented 1.4 per cent. At crude rates - that is, per million of male and female mean population; and I will give the figures in relation to females shortly - the figure was 150. In 1954 the number of male deaths had risen to 519 which was 2 per cent of total male deaths and represented a crude rate of 201. In 1959 male deaths through lung cancer had jumped to 1,380. representing 2.7 per cent of total male deaths and a crude rate of 272. The number of male deaths due to lung cancer in 1964 jumped to 2,028, being 3.6 per cent of total male deaths and a crude rates figure of 362. In 1969 the number of deaths increased to 2,654, being 4.4 per cent of total male deaths and 428 on the crude rates scale. 
I turn to the figures for female deaths due to lung cancer in Australia over the same period. The number of female deaths through this cause in 1950 was 137. This was 0.4 per cent of total female deaths and a crude rates figure of 34. In 1954 the number of deaths had risen to 162, again 0.4 per cent of total female deaths and 36 at crude rates. In 1959, 198 females died through lung cancer representing 0.5 per cent of total female deaths and 40 at crude rates. In 1964 the number of female deaths was 297 which was 0.7 per cent of total female deaths and a crude rates figure of 54. In 1969 the number of female deaths had jumped to 383 which was 0.8 per cent of total female deaths and 63 on the crude rates scale representing per million of female mean population. These figures relate to lung cancer deaths only. A direct link has been established also between smoking and coronary thrombosis - this was mentioned in the report that I dealt with earlier - high blood pressure, cancer of the bladder and gastric ulcers. 
If we take these factors into account it is clear that, whilst we pay a lot of attention to deaths as a result of motor vehicle accidents, deaths caused through cigarette smoking can be considered as being greater than the number of deaths caused by motor vehicle accidents. We do not know the exact figures as to- those who die as the result of coronary thrombosis, high blood pressure, cancer of the bladder and gastric ulcers, but we do know the exact figures in relation to lung cancer. When we compare these figures with the figures of deaths through motor vehicle accidents we get some idea of the close relationship that exists between the two, especially in regard to the male rates. The figures that I will quote are taken from the official Year Book' of the Commonwealth of Australia for 1970. In 1968 the number of male deaths resulting - from lung cancer was 2,516 while the number of male deaths because of motor vehicles was 2,605. In that year lung cancer deaths represented 4.1 per cent. The figure at crude rates was 415 for lung cancer as against 430 for motor vehicle accidents. The figures in respect of female deaths are not as high as the figures for the male rate. I suppose this is understandable. I will not quote those figures. When we consider the other factors that have a direct link with cigarette smoking - that is, coronary thrombosis, high blood pressure, cancer of the bladder and gastric ulcers - I think it can be rightly claimed that more deaths result from smoking cigarettes than from motor vehicle accidents. 
The Government should use the excise that it receives from tobacco sales to finance a long term educational campaign using the same media as the cigarette industry is using to bring home to our young people - that is, young potential smokers - the dangers of smoking. We ought to be making a king-size attack upon these interests which for profit are prepared to destroy the -health and cause the early deaths of many thousands of young Australian people. I am not so concerned with adults who have been smoking cigarettes for years and who have become addicts. That is their business. If they have not sufficient sense to give up the habit, that is their concern. I am concerned about our young people who follow the example of adults, especially leaders in sport. 
Endless publicity and advertising is engaged in and money is wasted to encourage our young people to take up smoking. Decent parents try to inculcate an approved line of conduct in their children, yet they must face a barrage from irresponsible vested interests which have no limit to the finance at their disposal. I am satisfied that, if our young people were protected from these king-size campaigns - this chronic brainwashing - and were acquainted by the Government of the stark facts associated with cigarette smoking, their commonsense would prevail and many thousands of them would avoid cigarette smoking like the plague. The Government has an unmistakable duty to take action. Earlier I mentioned that it suited the Government to be geared to the slowest State. This should not be allowed. Victoria and Queensland are tobacco growing States and obviously they will not do much to affect the profits of the tobacco manufacturers. The Commonwealth Government should take the initiative in its own territories by adopting the recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council and compelling the placing on cigarette packets of a label reading: Warning. Cigarette smoking is dangerous to health'. It should also ban cigarette advertising on radio and television and should use the space on this media now used for advertising cigarettes for an educational campaing to bring home to our young people the dangers of smoking. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface my question by congratulating the Prime Minister on his speech officially opening the National Heart Campaign in which he said that more than 250,000 Australians would be affected by heart disease this year. 1 ask: Will he go further in support of this campaign by using his authority to encourage the removal of quotas placed on the production of margarine? Has he seen a statement by Professor  Blacket  of the University of New South Wales which points out that minority groups had succeeded in preserving trade practices that prejudice the health of the people and that margarine laws had been framed quite deliberately to prevent competition with butter? Will he also use his authority to see that polyunsaturated table margarine is made available in the parliamentary dining room in the interests of health of honourable members. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I rise to second the motion, so ably proposed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  for the suspension of the Standing Orders so that a motion can be moved for the establishment of a select committee to inquire into and report upon proposals made by employers and employee organisations and other interested parties for the modernisation of the Commonwealth industrial laws. All members in this chamber realise that our industrial laws are not working efficiently. I think this is admitted on both sides of the chamber. Employers and employee organisations are suggesting amendments to improve such laws. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, through its  President  and through some of the Commissioners, have made suggestions for amendments. Some of them have been mentioned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review back in 1959 advocated a widening of the economic powers of the Commonwealth for the specific purpose of reforming our industrial laws. But what has been done? Employers and employees have called for an early reform. The Australian Labor Party has asked the Parliament to remain in session for this very purpose. That request has been refused. Almost everybody interested in this problem wants early reform and wants something done very urgently. The Government is the laggard. The Government is the body that does not want to do anything at the present time. It wants the Parliament to go into recess for approximately 4 months and to allow the present situation to continue. It wants to sit back and attack the unions and the Commission if its decisions do not suit the Government. Vicious attacks have been made upon the Commission by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury),  the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  all for the purpose of influencing the Commission. The criticism has been particularly harsh when the decisions of the Commission have not suited the Government. 
No responsible person is happy with the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is worse now than it has ever been before. As the honourable member for Hindmarsh said, it is an Act that has been responsible for a lot of controversy over the years. It is one of the most important Acts on the statute book. It has been subjected to over 50 amendments since 1944, and it is still not working satisfactorily. It is so controversial that it creates as many disputes as it solves. It is interesting to have a look at the Act, particularly the first 2 sections. Section 1 states that the Act may be cited as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act It should be noted that Conciliation' is the first and most important word in the Act, but largely it is ignored by the powers that be and particularly by this Government. More conciliation is required. That means bringing the parties to a dispute together in harmony. One point I would like to see a select committee investigate is the question' of more conciliation. Commissioner Winter, on his retirement, had something to say about that point which is most interesting. He said: 
The fact that the work of the Commission places overwhelming emphasis on conciliation is largely ignored. 
An examination of the annual reports of the  President, Sir Richard  Kirby, make the position quite clear. 
I firmly believe that the only pathway through the morass of industrial disputation in a time when the whole Western world faces economic uncertainty lies in the direction of conciliation and compromise. 
But what does the Government do about it? It lets things drift and is prepared to let them drift. Section 2 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act sets out the objects of the Act as follows: 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
These are great objectives but they are objectives that have not been achieved. Why have they not been achieved? It is because the Act places obstacles in the way of such achievement. That is why we are anxious to have a select committee appointed so that the ambiguities and anomalies in I he Act can be rectified. A select committee could inquire into the views of all interested parties. 
Why did the Government fail to act on the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 when the report of that Committee was tabled in this Parliament? It was a specific recommendation for the widening of the economic powers of the Commonwealth so that the industrial laws could be amended in such a way that they could work more efficiently. Why is it that a dispute has to extend beyond the borders of any one State before the Commission can act? Why is it that disputes have to be created in some forms? Why is it that disputes have to be created before the Commission can act? The Act needs many changes, some of which have been mentioned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. But the Government continues to sidestep its responsibilities despite the industrial troubles that face the nation and will face the nation until the Act is amended in the way that it should be. We want the Standing Orders suspended so that we can discuss the appointment of a select committee. Why would the Government want to leave things as they are? Is it because it does not want the system to work? Does it want to use industrial trouble throughout the nation for its own political and election purposes? Is that why it hesitates to act at this point of time? 
If the suspension of the Standing Orders is refused, the answer is quite clear and should be made clear to the nation. The Australian Labor Party wants a select committee to consider ' the desirability of the court setting down minimum standards after which the parties, as a result of collective bargaining, could arrive at agreement binding on both parties for the term of such agreement. There is nothing outrageous about this. As a matter of fact, it is already laid down in the Act but there are so many other obstacles that it does not work properly, and this Government is opposed to it. For instance, after the minimum has been established by the .courts we come to the area which is referred to by the  President  of the Commission as the collective bargaining area. On page 18 of his 1966 report, the  President  said: 
It has long been obvious that arbitration for minimum payments and bargaining for over-award payments must co-exist in this community. 
On page 19 he said: 
The problems and difficulties should not obscure the fact that there is no real incompatibility in the mutual existence of a system prescribing minimum rates by arbitration tribunals and of bargaining on occasion about over-award payments. 
The Government frowns upon this. It wants the minimum to be the maximum all the time, whereas the court prescribes only the minimum. That is its attitude towards this matter and, I repeat, that is why the Opposition wants a select committee to be set up to look at this matter and to get a satisfactory wage-price relationship as was proposed by a conciliation commissioner on the eve of his retirement. Briefly, this is what Commissioner Winter said on that occasion: 
Unless a satisfactory wage-price relationship can be secured, I am not optimistic for the future of any kind of reasonable industrial relations. 
One cannot expect wage earners to have their real living standards suffering erosion from the very moment an arbitrator sets what he considers to be a fair and reasonable standard in the economic environment in which he' determines the standard. 
The system is one-sided. The Government believes that the price of labour should be controlled and all the force of the legal machinery  is  used for that very purpose. But there  is  no control over prices. They are decided in the shelter of the board room without the hearing of any evidence or any argument. There  is  no question of public interest. That is the way in which prices are arrived at. If the Opposition can get the select committee that it wants, these things could be ironed out. If ever a government has shown prejudice against the workers, this Government has done so. Every Minister who opens his mouth on this subject, including the Minister for Labour and National Service who is now at the table, places the blame on the workers for any industrial disputation. 
The Arbitration Commission in its 1964 judgment emphasised that there was no control over incomes other than the incomes of those whose employment was covered by awards. The Commission said there was no authoritative control of prices although there was a tight control of wages.  Mr Justice  Moore on page 66 of his reasons for judgment pointed out that the previous statement of the Commission that increases in prices are determined by those who fix prices is a truth that cannot be emphasised enough. Did the Government take any notice of that statement? No, of course it did not take any notice. It did not bother about it. Naturally the interests of employers and employees are not the same on all matters. If the select committee is set up the employers will have an opportunity to outline their views in the same way as the employees will. The employers have already outlined some of their views in the Press. I have a Press cutting in my hand now. While we on this side of the House may not agree with those views, at least we indicate that we want this committee to look at what the employers want in relation to this Act just as much as we want it to look at what the employees want. 
The employers want an open discussion aimed at the reform of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, according to  Mr Noakes, President  of the Australian Council of Employers Federation. I do not want to quote too much of his statement, just enough to indicate that the employers are on side in this. The employee organisations would want the question of sanctions considered by that committee, as well as the repeal of sections 109 and 111 of the Act. 
Their repeal would not mean that other penalties under the Act would not apply. If the injunction and contempt provisions were deleted, section 119 which applies to both employees and employers alike and does not just single out the employees would remain. It provides for the enforcement of awards and agreements. The suggestions by the  President  of the Commission and Conciliation Commissioner Winter for amendments could also be considered by this select committee. Commissioner Winter has mentioned already the very thing I have just said. A newspaper report quoted him as saying: 
. industrial problems would not be solved by attempts to whack anyone with a big stick. 
The national character was outraged by bullying,, be said. 
He did not think industrial penal legislation had been an overwhelming success in Australia - 'anything but that.' 
An effect of penal legislation had been to drive trade unions away from attempts at reconciliation. 
There is a man who knows his job and who has done bis best to make the Act work. Penal provisions psychologically are bad. Better industrial relations are not possible while they exist. We have to realise that our arbitration system is dealing with questions on which the community is divided into 2 camps. Workers and employers have their own views about what is just and reasonable in this field. Important as arbitration is, it is ridiculous to think that it could usher in a reign of absolute peace in industrial relations. No-one would deny the value of international law, but conflicts still arise between States and are so severe that all observance of law is swept away. Hundreds of issues are settled successfully by the Commission but it cannot settle all of them. If the system were amended it would be strengthened, and if the Government accepts the realities of the situation this select committee could be the first step towards that objective. A select committee could make recommendations to this place for the necessary amendments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to take this opportunity also to congratulate the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on the effort which he has put into this Bill. I also thank him for the complimentary remarks which he made about me regarding assistance which I was able to give to him. But I think that he is deserving of the highest compliment for the tremendous effort which he has put into this Bill. After all, it is the man who is sitting at the table of the House who really has to co-ordinate the activities of others and to bring down the final result. 
In addition, I believe that the work of the Australian Labor Party's industrial committee, which was assisted by many other people, resulted in the formulation of a model Bill, and is responsible for the introduction of many of the amendments which appear in the new Bill, which has been introduced by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  The new Bill is vastly different from the code which was brought down about 12 months ago by the then Treasurer. I compliment the Minister for being so astute as to take so much out of the model Bill presented by the Labor Party. This model Bill will be used as the basis for amendments which will be moved to the Bill we are considering. - At long last we are debating a Bill to establish a new code of workers compensation for Commonwealth employees. I say at long last' because this new code was promised as far back as 1964 when the then Prime Minister stated that amendments to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act submitted by the Opposition 'would be further considered during the forthcoming recess'. That was 7 years ago. Following on that, promises were made year after year, but it has taken nearly 7 years to fulfil those promises. Now we have this new code before us. The procrastination that has taken place is to the eternal discredit of this Government. It may be a new code - it is a new code in the real sense - but it is not an entirely satisfactory one. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh has indicated many ways in which this could be improved. I do not propose to go over the points that he made. In some respects this legislation provides for better rates of compensation than are provided in some of the States but in other, respects it still lags behind the provisions of some States. While the new code has broken some new ground it has not reached the objectives which the Australian Labor Party has represented in its model Bill and which the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the white collar workers unions have been pursuing for years. In those respects in which this legislation is better than that in some of the States it could well be only a temporary advantage as some pf the State Acts are to be reviewed. One would have thought that this new. code would have been at least as advantageous to the workers as was the one most recently amended. I refer to the Workmen's Compensation Act of South Australia which has many features more advantageous to the workers of that State than this code provides for the employees of the Commonwealth. 
I do not intend to go into this difference too deeply because I understand that 2 honourable members from South Australia wish to speak in this debate .and no doubt they will go into these aspects. However, I draw attention to 2 examples. Firstly, on the death of a worker the amount now provided in South Australia is $15,000. Under this code it is $13,500.' The amount allowed for a spouse is $13 under the South Australian Act; under this amendment it is $8.50. There are other instances but I will leave those to honourable members from South Australia to develop if they so desire. The new code increases weekly rates of compensation for an employee to $35, for a dependant female to $8.50 and for a child to $5, making a total of S48.50 for a family unit of that size. Average weekly earnings, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh has pointed out, are now over $80 a week. So the amount falls far short of average weekly earnings. 
It is true that the Bill contains new provisions which will enable an employee to receive weekly payments of compensation and at the same time to utilise a proportion of his accrued sick leave credits to build up his payments to 'his ordinary rate of pay. That is an advantage. Formerly, if he took out sick leave he forwent his workers compensation. As I have said, the 
Bill is an advantage in that direction. However, this provision does not help a worker who does not have accrued sick leave. He and his faimly have to exist on their entitlement under this new compensation code which is far below average weekly earnings. This loss of earnings can be a tremendous setback to a young married man who has commitments for furniture and his home. Hire purchase companies as well as the mortgage on his home have to be paid. In our view a worker injured on duty should receive his average weekly earnings. He should not lose financially. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions has adopted the principle that a worker who is deemed to be totally or partially incapacitated for work should be entitled to receive during the period of his incapacity the amount of weekly earnings he would have received but for his injury. We support that view ond it is provided for in our proposed amendment. A justifiable reason does not emerge to explain why a worker and his dependants must suffer a substantially reduced rate of earnings in circumstances where a worker is unable to work because of some injury or disease suffered in his employment. Injured workers and their families frequently suffer severe financiol burdens when the breadwinner is incapacitated in this way. The Government not only has the basic responsibility to protect the worker against industrial safety hazards, but it also has the responsibility to ensure that when a worker becomes injured he and his family are justly compensated. The weekly rates provided for in the amending legislation are inadequate in that direction. Even though they are an improvement they do not go to the extent that they should to meet average family needs. Furthermore, the principle of reduced income prevailing in this Act, and in the State Acts, for an injured worker is not just. After a period of incapacity most workers find themselves in considerable debt for some time afterwards. It is not uncommon to hear of injured workers having to obtain personal loans from banks and other borrowing sources in order to make ends meet while being incapacitated for work. 
All workers compensation Acts already have built in safeguards, as this one has, to ensure that only legitimate claims are met and that compensation payments are paid only while the worker is actually incapacitated for work. Surely this clearly indicates that something better, approaching what we have suggested, could be incorporated in this Bill. The ACTU and the Australian Labor Party contend that the no loss of income principle should prevail in this legislation and in all Commonwealth and State workers compensation law. The New South Wales legislature has proceeded well along the path to recognising this principle in respect of those persons employed by two or the largest employers of labour in New South Wales - namely, the Department of Government Transport and the Railways Department. The New South Wales Parliament has enacted special industry Acts which include workers compensation coverage. The relevant provisions in the Acts are found in section 124 of the Transport Act and section 100(b) of  Uht  Railways Act, if honourable members want to pursue that line. 
These sections provide in effect that an employee who is incapacitated by an injury arising out of and in the course of his employment so as to be unable to perform the duties of his classification, shall be paid at not less that the salary for the time being payable to employees with the same classification and with the same length of service. There is also, provision in those 2 industry Acts for. the . employee if he wishes to elect, within 6 .months of the accident, to come under the provisions of the New South Wales Workers' Compensation Act. The no loss of pay principle has also been introduced by consent of the employers to cover . employees in the electricity distribution and generation industry in New South Wales. It also applies to employees of the Sydney County Council In this regard, whilst these employees come within the ambit of the New South Wales Workers' Compensation Act, the employer has correctly considered it proper that the difference between the compensation rates under the Act and the employee's ordinary salary be paid by the employer. That is now being inserted in many awards and agreements in that State. 
This means that employers of some 80,000 workers in New South Wales alone have already substantially embraced the no loss of earnings principle in lieu of the more unjustifiable reduced income principle for injured workers and their dependants. The Commonwealth says now that an injured worker can use his accrued sick leave to build up his wages for this purpose. That is not good enough. He may not have any accrued leave. Of course, he is disadvantaged if that is the case. In any event he is disadvantaged when compared with the New South Wales workers I have mentioned. How can the Commonwealth justify the fact that its employees employed, in some cases, in substantially similar occupational groupings as their State counterparts, particularly in New South Wales and South Australia, are denied the more favourable benefits which exist in many categories of benefit? 
I am pleased to see that there are several amendments m this Bill which we have been pushing and which the Minister has seen fit to introduce, most of them having been mentioned already by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. This Act, which in many respects is below the standard of benefit in some of the State legislation, also applies, it must be remembered, to our national servicemen, our militia and our Regular Army. If these lads are injured or meet their death by accident arising out of or as a result of their service, they or their dependants, as the case may be, come within the ambit of this Act. 
Yes. That is before they go overseas or after they return. When servicemen are overseas they are covered by the Repatriation Act, but it is our view that they should be covered by the Repatriation Act once they eater the Services. It ii ridiculous that men who may be training for war and who before they actually go overseas are subjected to quite a number of dangers that they would not meet in their ordinary working life should come under the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act and not under the provisions of the Repatriation Act. The Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act was originally framed for those engaged in civil employment and not for men who may be in the Army or undergoing national service.  His  Honour  Mr Chief  Justice Nixon, stated: 
Naval, military and Air Force was brought into legislation originally framed without regard tu the nature of that service. 
He went on: 
This means that the conception of employment must be moulded to fit the service of the Crown in the Navy, Army and Air Force. 
That reference is from Commonwealth v. Wright which was reported in 1956 at page 536 of the Commonwealth Law Reports. It is clear that the Act was not framed to cover members of the defence forces. The Repatriation Act is much more appropriate to cover members of the defence forces from the time that they enlist until their discharge, not only when they are overseas but also when they are in Australia. I ask the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to have a look at this. I know that the Repatriation Act does not come within the ambit of his ministerial duties, but still this is a matter that could be investigated. I believe that all workers compensation Acts throughout Australia should be co-ordinated with the objective of ensuring that uniform benefits and payments are available to all workers covered by the Acts. Surely, this is a reasonable matter for discussion at a Premiers Conference. I raised this matter with the former Prime Minister on one occasion. 1 asked him: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement made by Judge R. R. McGrath to the Industrial Relations Society of New South Wales that workers' compensation benefits and payments should be made uniform by legislation in all States? If so, will he arrange for the next Premiers Conference to discuss the co-ordination of all workers compensation Acts in Australia with the object of ensuring that uniform benefits and payments are available for alt workers covered by the Acts? 
The Prime Minister of that time did not give a favourable reply to the request. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  also has raised this matter. On one occasion, he asked the Treasurer of that time: 
Did he have more success in having a uniform workers compensation Act discussed at the Premiers Conference, pursuant to his answer to the honourable member for Stirling on 13th June 1968 (Hansard, page 1297), than his predecessor had pursuant to his answer to me on 31st May 1960? 
The answer was: 
As has been explained on previous occasions, the question of co-ordination of workers compensation legislation is primarily a matter for the States. The subject was not raised by any of the States at this year's Premiers Conference and it was considered not appropriate for the Commonwealth to raise it. 
Why should not the Commonwealth raise it? Why should it be left to the States?  His  Honour  Mr Justice  McGrath, spoke about the co-ordination of these Acts before the Industrial Relations Society of New South Wales and it was there that he suggested uniform legislation. He pointed out how the position was highlighted when major building projects or undertakings were carried out close to State borders. Workers on the same project doing the same work could be compensated differently for the same injuries depending on which law was applicable. He said: 
This type of legislation made the least beneficial or narrow legislation appear strikingly anomalous. 
Some of the anomalies were outlined: Firstly, many workers covered by the laws of one State were not 'workers' in the legislation of other States or the Commonwealth; secondly, there were many differences in substantive benefits; and, thirdly, many differences in procedure existed.  His  Honour pointed out that many systems, including that of the Commonwealth, dealt with compensation administratively and only came to court on appeal and that those were disputed compensation claims came directly to a court involved a totally different approach. These were the points that he made, and he suggested a specialised body to handle them.  His  Honour pointed out that the only arguments against uniformity of benefit and payments could be cost. But he answered this by suggesting that the success of the insurance arrangements under the New South Wales Act was sufficient to demonstrate that the insurance community was capable of providing total coverage at premium rates governed by the New South Wales Act and scheme which were sufficiently remunerative to ensure continued competition for this type of insurance business. In other words, insurance companies were still carrying workers compensation risks at a profit. That applies in all States. All insurance companies are showing handsome profits on workers compensation. There is no doubt that higher workers compensation benefits could be paid by insurance companies. They are making substantial profits from this line of business. 
The Queensland State Government Insurance Office was established originally to provide adequate financial protection to Queensland workers injured in the course of their employment. From a study of the annual reports of the Queensland State Government Insurance Office one can get an idea of the profits made in this line of business. All workers compensation in that State is handled by this authority. The 1966 report shows that the premiums were $17.5m and claims were $10.3m, but with other expenses, such, as management, bad debts, payroll tax etc. the total expenses were $2m, leaving a surplus of $5.5m. Investment income built the surplus up to $6.7m. For the benefit of honourable members I quote from the report as follows: 
Our policy of' maximum protection at minimum cost is fully enforced in this Department. 
The report shows what profits were made. That profit carries on from year to year. I have studied these annual reports back to 1962, and each year there has been a substantial underwriting surplus after claims and all expenses are met. Investment income increases the surplus in each of those years. Information is not available from all States but I could quote figures from Western Australia which show that substantial profits are made. The same applies to information that I obtained from the Bureau of Census and. Statistics. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Bureau of Census and Statistics has been forced to abandon a proposed survey of family incomes and expenditures because of the economy measures forced on the Bureau by his Department 
Is he able to say whether similar surveys are carried out in other advanced countries; if so, do these surveys form the basis of welfare policies in those countries. 
If the position is as stated will he direct that this important survey be conducted and repeated at reasonable intervals so that the welfare policies of Australia can be continually improved by regular comparison with other comparable countries. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities. Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Does the Minister for Defence agree with a former Minister for Defence - that is, the Minister twice removed, who is now the Minister for Education and Science - that an Army task force is necessary in Western Australia to provide a better defence on the west side of the Australian continent? Will he state whether he supports this view? If he does, when will there be a task force in Western Australia, bearing in mind that our troops will be out of Vietnam by Christmas? 
 Mr Speaker,  my question is directed to you. I draw your attention to a question which I asked on 22nd September 1970, and which is reported at page 1416 of Hansard. It referred to the hundreds of petitions that had been presented to the House during that session. Of course, the process has been repeated during this session. I asked what had happened to the petitions and whether the petitioners were not wasting their time in preparing and signing the petitions just to have them pigeonholed. 1 drew your attention,  Sir, to  the fact that a committee examines petitions presented to the House of Commons and reports on them. I asked you if you would consider adopting such a system here and you said that my request would be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 1 now ask: Has anything been done in regard to this matter? 

 Mr SPEAKER: Yes. The  Clerk  of the House of Representatives has made inquiries from the House of Commons, the Canadian House of Commons and also the New Zealand Parliament in regard to the manner in which petitions are dealt with in those places. Information has now been received from the respective clerks in those Parliaments and it will be put in concise form and presented to the next meeting of the Standing Orders Committee. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  states that the trend has been to increase pension rates faster than prices.  His  argument is based on an out of date consumer price index which does not reveal the real cost of living. This was shown clearly by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during the course of his speech on the Budget. Even if the Minister were correct, standards change over the years. What were once luxuries have now been necessities. For comparison he goes back to the days of the washing board, the broom and the Coolgardie safe. These are the days of the washing machine, the vacuum cleaner and the refrigerator. They are now necessities. Every family - including the aged, invalids and widows - needs them. The Government claims that we live in an affluent society. There is grave doubt about that as far as  some  sections of the community are concerned. But if this claim be correct, I assert that every section of the community is entitled to enjoy that affluence. 
The pensioner, like other members of the community, will be faced with increased taxes, increased telephone and postal charges and increased transport costs. The increases in pensions provided for in this Budget will be swallowed up in increased prices before much time has passed. The Government is always happy to quote average weekly earnings to show how the wages of workers have advanced throughout the period but dodges the issue when it comes to comparing pensions over the years. If average weekly earnings can be used as a guideline for one thing surely they can bc used as a guideline to measure the value of the pension. 
In 1949 under a Labor government the age pension was 26.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. That applied to both married and single pensioners. The single rate is now 19.49 per cent of average weekly earnings and the pension for each married couple is 17.23 per cent based on average weekly earnings of $88.50, which was the last figure we received calculated on a seasonal basis. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who led for the Opposition on this debate, pointed out that the percentage will be even lower before the next Budget as average weekly earnings increase. 
The pension has never been lower compared with average weekly earnings. No mention was made in the Budget of some progress being made towards the abolition of the means test which was so strongly advocated by the Minister for Social Services when he was a back bencher and from which he has now gone to cover. No mention has been made of the promised national superannuation scheme about which there has been quite considerable discussion in this chamber over the last few days. Before he became Minister for Social Services, the Minister took every opportunity in this place to advocate the abolition of the means test. I refer to a speech made by the Minister, without quoting it, on 17th September 1963 which appears at page 1034 of Hansard. On 20th August 1965 the Minister said: 
The means test is an extravagance which the Australian economy can no longer afford.' 
To quite a number of people it is humiliating to have to go before an officer of the Department of Social Services and submit themselves to all sorts of questions about their private affairs. It is assumed that the poor will try to cheat and consequently they are subjected to all sorts of embarrassing questions- The abolition of the means test would remove this embarrassment and would relieve the Government of the tremendous cost of administering and conducting these investigations. 
The age pension should not be considered as a handout. It is the right of those who have contributed throughout their working lives that they should receive something in return. The pension is no more a handout than the grant that may be given to a professor for scientific research; no more a handout than the farmer receives as a subsidy for wheat production, or a dairy farmer who receives portion of a subsidy. There is no means test on the wool grower as to how the $60m will be distributed. Some families on farms have other business interests and wool growing is only a sideline for them. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, 12,000 major growers will split up among themselves $33m while 80,000 smaller growers will be left to share $27m. The big grower will receive an average of $2,750 and the smaller grower $337. Why then should there be a means test on the pension? In view of the advocacy of the Minister of this much needed reform, one would have thought that some move would be made in that direction and would be revealed in this Budget. But that has not been the case. 
In 1954 a single pensioner received a pension of $7 and the allowable income was $7. A married couple received a pension of $14 and the allowable income was $14. The pension as a result of this Budget is now $17.25 a week for a single person and the allowable income is $10. So the value of the allowable income has dropped from 100 per cent in 1954 to 57.9 per cent now. The married couple's pension is now $30.50 a week and the allowable income $17 - a drop from 100 per cent in 1954 to 55.7 per cent now. 
The Government made quite a song a few years ago when it increased the amount of allowable income to $10 for a single pensioner and $17 for a married couple. This was the first increase in the allowable income since 1954 and in fact did not represent the same value as regards purchasing power as did the amount of the $7 allowable income in 1954. Due to increased cost of living in the past 7 years the value of the allowable income has been further reduced. It is true that the tapered means test has been introduced - a means test, in actual fact, within a means test. This means that a pensioner earning more than the allowable income can keep 50 per cent of what he earns until he reaches a given figure. This is in effect a 50c tax in every dollar. Even the taper has now been tampered with. 
Under this legislation the single pensioner who has an income of up to $11 a week and has no more than $420 in property will get the full increase of $1.25. If he has between $11 and $13.50 per week in income he will get part of the increase of $1.25. But if he has more than $13.50 in income he does not get any increase, in pension. The married couple who have up to S9.50 in income each will get the full $1 per week each; if they have between $9.50 and $11.50 per week in income each they will get part of the $1 each; and if they have over $11.50 in income each they will receive no increase at all. Of course, that depends on their having no more than $840 in property between them. The same applies to the property equivalent of weekly income. So instead of abolishing the means test or reducing it further, the Government has imposed a means test within a means test. But that is not unusual for this Government. 
Every recipient of social service benefits has been short changed since this Government took office. Increases in social service benefits have not kept pace with price increases. Benefits are always dragging behind costs. As a result of increased inflation over the years taxpayers have been passed into higher income tax groups, and although the taxpayer gets less in real wages in his pay packet, the Government takes more from him in taxation and gives him less in return. For some years now the people have been the victims of the thimble and pea trick. They have been giving good money for bad. They have been contributing to the National Welfare Fund in the form of taxation and getting shrunken benefits in return. The value of the dollar has shrunk to about 30c as compared with the position in 1949. People are losing in 2 ways: The value of social service benefits has been clipped just as though an extra tax had been imposed on the people, and they have moved into higher income tax ranges without getting any more purchasing power in their pay packets. 
This Government stands condemned for its callous disregard of our aged and invalid people and widows. One would almost think that it was a crime to grow old. Instead of making people's twilight years more pleasant, this Government is making them a misery. It is to be regretted that the wife, who is under 60 years of age, of an invalid pensioner or an age pensioner who is unemployable will get an allowance of only $8 a week - an increase of $1 a week. This means that unless the wife can find work - as she is expected to do by this Government - the couple will have to live on a miserable pittance of $25.25 a week. If a wife has an invalid husband she may not be able to work. Also, after being out of industry for a considerable number of years it is pretty difficult for a wife in her advancing years to get back into employment. Labor's policy provides that a wife in such circumstances should get the full pension. 
The discrimination between a single pensioner and married pensioners continues. The Government was responsible for reducing the value of the married couple's pension as compared with the pension of the single pensioner. The ludicrous position arises where 2 sisters or 2 brothers or a brother and a sister or indeed an unmarried couple living together are much better off financially than are a married couple, as regards both pension and allowable income. They can receive $4.50 a week more pension between them and, with the allowable income, they can have $7.50 a week between them. The Government should restore the value of the pension paid to married couples and the limit of the allowable income until such time as the means test is abolished. The rate of pension and the allowable income limit should be the same for a married pensioner couple as it is for 2 single pensioners living together. 
The Minister should bear in mind that maintaining a home these days is often more expensive than paying rent. There is a strong case for providing supplementary assistance to married pensioner couples who own their own homes. Single pensioners can get supplementary assistance for rent, subject to a means test. As the Minister made comparisons with the position in .1.949, he can hardly object if we do the same. In 1949 a man, with a wife and 2 children, on the minimum wage paid $1.60 a year in income tax. A man with the same family, who is on the minimum wage now, pays $2.85 per week or $148.20 a year in income tax. He pays more income tax in a week now than a man in similar circumstances in 1949 paid in a year. The average minimum wage for the 7 capital cities now is $46.30 a week. 
In 1949 child endowment paid to a family with 3 children - which is close to the number of children in the average family - represented 11.3 per cent of the average male earnings. Under this Budget, a family with 3 children will receive $3.50  a  week in child endowment. Average male earnings are now $88.50 a week, so child endowment represents less than 3.95 per cent of average male earnings. A comparison with the minimum wage also shows how the value of child endowment has dropped over the years. In 1948 when the minimum wage was $11.60 a week, a family with 5 children received $4 a week in child endowment. The same sized family now receives $8.25 a week, but the minimum wage is now $46.30 a week. To retain the same relationship child endowment now should be over $11 for a family with 5 children. 
The recent Budget was not a family budget by any stretch of the imagination. The increase in child endowment does not make up for the loss Of purchasing power through inflation over the years, .lust recently Professor Ehrlich criticised the increase in child endowment not because the amount was insufficient but because the increase might result in more children. He is known as the 'populate and perish' man. If a couple had more children as a result of this miserable increase in child endowment, they would be gluttons for punishment. lt is interesting to analyse how the family income shrinks as extra children come along. The minimum wage is now $46.30 a week. A married man without children pays $4.15 a week in income tax. This reduces the family income to $42.15, or $21.08 a week each. The first child arrives and the tax is reduced to $3.40 a week. The couple receive 50c a week child endowment, which gives the family $43.40 a week, or $14.47 each. The second child comes along, the tax is reduced to $2.85 and they get $1.50 a week child endowment. The family income is now $44.95 a week, or $11.24 each. With the third child, tax paid weekly is $2.40 and child endowment is $3.50 a week, leaving the family income at $47.40, or $9.48 for each unit. With the fourth child taxation is reduced to $1.95 each week and child endowment is $5.75 a week, making the family income $50.10, or $8.35 for each unit. 
The examples that I have given deal with the big majority of families, because 75 per cent of all families have less than 4 children, leaving 25 per cent with 4 children or more. This shows that the bigger the family the less each family unit has to live on. Surely there is some justification for doing something for the families. The Government's failure to increase child endowment for the first and second child is to be deplored. The effect on the family budget when the first child reaches the age of 16 years is most noticeable. The 50c a week child endowment for the first child is taken away, and the endowment for the second child is reduced to 50c a week, from $1 a week, making a loss of $1 a week in child endowment. The payment to the third child is reduced from $2 to $1 a week making a loss of income of $2 a week. This is a big drop in income for a family. 
Let us look at how other benefits have shrunk in value since this Government has been in office. Funeral benefits for pensioners amounts to $40 where a pensioner is responsible for the funeral costs of a spouse, a child or another pensioner. In other cases the funeral allowance is $20, which is the figure that was fixed by the Curtin Government in 1943. It has not been altered for 28 years. In 1943 the minimum wage was $9.60 a week. To maintain the same relative value the funeral benefit should be at least $80. The value of the benefit is now less than 25 per cent of what it was in 1943. The same comment applies to maternity allowance. The existing rates, which were set by the Curtin Government in 1943, range from $30 to $35. In order to give the same benefit in purchasing power, the rates should be increased at least 4 times. From the inception of maternity allowance in 1912 until this Government came into office, the allowance would always pay the expenses associated with the birth of a child. Tha: is nol so today. Consequently, married couples are putting off having children. Both parents have to go to work in most cases in order to get their home together before having a child. 
A recent survey on poverty shows that one in 16 people in Australia live in poverty.  Mr R.  J. A. Harper, a senior lecturer in economics at the University of Melbourne, made that statement as a result of a survey which was carried out by a team from the University. The survey showed that 133,000 people in Melbourne - one in 16 - were at or below the poverty line.  Mr Harper  said that there was nothing to suggest that a similar study in other capital cities would not reveal the same result. The Melbourne survey showed that older people were in the largest poverty groups. This is a shocking indictment of Australian standards. In his book 'The Hidden People' John Stubbs says: 'If you lift the rug of the affluent Australian society you can find half a million poor people underneath. They share overpriced rooms, shiver in winter and sometimes live on dog's meat.' He points out that Federal and State governments are not interested in finding out about them and sometimes even conceal the data they get. This is true. I have asked the Government to arrange for a full scale investigation of the extent and nature of poverty in Australia but without any result. The Government prefers to let sleeping dogs lie. Stubbs points out in his book that until the Government undertakes a major survey of our social security system our poor will continue to live half lives. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment so ably moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: while not opposing the Bill, the House is of opinion that - 
the increases proposed are inadequate, 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living, 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty, 
a national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated, 
pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually and 
a joint select committee should be established to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community'. 
I commend the amendment to this House. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I was surprised by the remarks of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  In some respects they were vicious. In answer to an interjection he came out with a diatribe about something which I do not think he understood. Then he went on and spoke about special rates for people in country districts but he did not even acknowledge the fact that part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports provides for that very thing. I will read that part of the amendment to him in case he has not read it. It says: 
The application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its authorities. 
That is the very thing that the honourable member for Maranoa was talking about and for which he criticised the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme),  but he did not even acknowledge that the Opposition had moved that. 
He should vote for the amendment in view of the remarks he made. I strongly support the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports criticising the increased postal charges, telephone rentals and other charges amounting to $50m in 1971-72 and $90m in a full year. The PostmasterGeneral announced these increases in his second reading speech following the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  who told us that the increases were to be made. The Postmaster-General told us that the basic letter rate will be increased from 6c to 7c for the first ounce, which is an increase of 17 per cent. That follows an increase in the last Budget of 20 per cent for the same type of postage. Surely that is an indication of how inflation is arising. 
The Postmaster-General said also that on the average parcel rates will be increased by 10 per cent for domestic and 20 per cent for overseas services. He said that the overseas airmail letter rates will rise by 5c a half ounce and by 2c in the case of New Zealand. Aerogrammes will be increased by 2c. Increased charges are proposed for registered post and certified mail. Existing telephone rentals will be increased, as will other telephone charges. The Postmaster-General told us that the Government proposes to increase the 3 basic telephone rentals of $47, $31 and $23 by $8, $6 and $4 respectively. He told us that service connection fees will rise by $10 to $50 and that local telephone calls will increase from 4c to 4.75c with a corresponding increase in trunk line charges. That represents an increase of 19 per cent in the case of local telephone calls. 
The charges for the installation or renewal of miscellaneous items of telecommunications equipment will be increased. Telex call charges will increase from 5c to 6c for each meter registration. With all these increases, an increase in the postal service to the public is not noticeable. In fact, in many ways we are getting a reduced service for an increased cost. Priority paid mail has certainly been an improvement, 1 admit, hut even that is at an increased rate. To some extent priority paid mail overcomes the 1968 decision to reduce letter deliveries in all centres outside the inner capital city areas. In case there is any doubt about how mail services are being affected let me quote an article in The Sunday Australian' of yesterday which is headed: Three out of four letters fail the Post Office time test. The article continues: 
Mail ends up late - or lost. Mail delivery is not up to the required standard, senior postal officials admitted in Sydney last week. 
I will not read any more from the article because I am sure that the PostmasterGeneral has studied it. But there it is, and it clearly indicates that what we are saying is true. What is the answer? The PostmasterGeneral does not seem to have it. When one looks at the overall picture one finds that the Postmaster-General's Department is not keeping pace with our growth of population and the rapid increase in business as a result of that growth. This is a difficult problem but one that must be faced up to. It is being faced up to in some other countries where new methods of administration are being tried. It is clear that all is not well with the Post Office. 
During the last debate on this matter the Opposition suggested that a joint select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the desirability and the practicability of establishing a public corporation to control the business of the Post Office. The Postmaster-General's only argument against that proposal during the last debate was that the Australian Labor Party was already bound by its policy to establish a corporation. In effect he said that if 
Opposition members were appointed to such a committee they would be bound to arrive at a certain decision. Of course, that was not so. We still believe that a corporation should be established. However, it would have to be determined whether the corporation should cover both the telecommunications and the postal side of the Post Office, or whether it should embrace only telecommunications. This is a matter which could be determined only after a thorough examination by a joint select committee or some other body established to report on the desirability and practicability of the proposal. 
Such a body should investigate what is happening in other comparable countries. Surely there is a lesson to be learned from what is happening in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. I am not suggesting that they have achieved all that is to be desired. We must do something about the matter, and the way to start is by investigation. The countries I have mentioned have already taken steps to reorganise their post offices into public corporations. In my belief, the PostmasterGeneral has shown a narrow, conservative view in handling the problems of his Department. The only reform, if one could call it such, has been to establish a fund into which profits, if any - of course, there are not any - are to be paid instead of going into Consolidated Revenue. There is no power to borrow. The Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs must continue to go cap in hand to the Treasurer for funds. The shackles remain. The Post Office continues to be hamstrung. 
Some years ago the British Government established a post office trust fund similar to that established by the PostmasterGeneral and to which I have just referred. But the British Government went further and gave its post office the power to raise loans. The British experience did not solve the problem. Legislation was then passed to establish a public corporation. The Bill passed the House of Lords on 14th July 1969. The steps proposed to be taken here will be of little or no use in the reorganisation of the Post Office. Steps similar to those taken in the United Kingdom and in the process of being taken in the United States of America are necessary. In the weekly compilation of Presidential docu ments of 2nd June 1969 the  President  of the United States in his message to Congress said: 
Two years ago, Lawrence F. O'Brien, then Postmaster-General, recognised that the Post Office was in 'a race with catastrophe', and made the bold proposal that the postal system be converted into a government owned corporation. As a result of  Mr O'Brien's  recommendations, a  Presidential Commission was established to make a searching study of our postal system. After considering all alternatives, the Commission likewise recommended a government corporation. Last January, President Johnson endorsed that recommendation in his State of the Union message. 
President Nixon went on to say: 
One of my first actions as  President  was to direct Postmaster-General Winton M. Blount to review that proposal and others. He made his own first hand study of the problems besetting the postal service, and after a careful analysis has reported to me that only a complete reorganisation of the postal system can avert the steady deterioration of this vital public service. I am convinced that such a reorganisation is essential. The arguments are overwhelming and the support is bipartisan. Postal reform is not a partisan political issue, it is an urgent national requirement. 
That statement could be taken almost word for word as describing the present situation in the Australian Post Office. The vital difference is that our Postmaster-General is not doing anything about it at all. 1 draw attention again to the final words that I quoted from the President's message. They were: 
The arguments are overwhelming and the support is bipartisan. Postal reform is not a partisan political issue, it is an urgent national requirement. 
This argument applies likewise to Australia. 
On 12th August 1970,  President  Nixon signed into law an Act to reform the United States postal system. The Act sets up a corporation style federal agency - the United States Postal Service. Top level management decisions will be in the hands of an 11-man board of directors. Nine governors will be appointed by the  President  and confirmed by the Senate. The Postmaster-General and his  Deputy  Postmaster-General will be the other 2 members of the 11-man board. Modernised buildings are planned as well as a greater degree of mechanisation for processing the mail together with better management techniques and improved transportation arrangements. It is expected that morale will be higher amongst postal workers as a result of better pay, greater opportunities for advancement and more satisfactory working conditions. The employees will remain government employees. They become members of the Postal Service - a career service. But they retain all rights that they now enjoy in the civil service, unless changes are made by the provisions of labour contracts negotiated between the unions and the board of governors. 
Now, we had some local evidence of what was considered necessary by the former Director of Posts and Telegraphs in this Commonwealth,  Mr F.  P. O'Grady, who retired about 5 years ago. He believes that the Australian Post Office should be a public corporation. After his retirement, he was able to come out into the open and to make public statements that he could not make as the head of a department of the Government. After his retirement, he was in a position to criticise the existing organisation of the Post Office. He has done so. In regard to the Post Office becoming a public corporation - his remarks are reported in full in the 'Australian' of 30th October 1967 -  Mr O'Grady  had this to say: 
I think that a public corporation would have a different approach to the public if it were given truly wide financial powers. It could arrange its business in a different way. At the present time a purely government department must adhere to the budgetary system of Parliament. In effect you must not anticipate parliamentary approval for years ahead. 
Later he said: 
This lack of knowledge of the future has always plagued the Engineer in the Post Office in Australia. 
He stated: 
The Post Office has always been debarred from long term planning. 
Then he went on: 
A statutory corporation given proper financial powers would be able to make long term arrangements with banks or other suppliers of funds and could so arrange its affairs that it could commit itself to very high capital cost projects which wouldn't come into use until 5 years ahead and would still have sufficient funds for bread and butter items. 
He pointed out further how the public corporation might be empowered to raise money through the Commonwealth loan fund system. It could raise money as State electricity commissions do in some States, with approval to go to the market separately. It could borrow also from banks. 
The reason for bad staff relations in the Australian Post Office is not hard to find. To a large extent it can be attributed to the existing set up. There is a staff in excess of 100,000 in the Post Office. Yet the administration has no power to deal directly with the wage claims of its employees. The unions first must place their claims before the Public Service Board, then to the Public Service Arbitrator and, in the last resort, to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. During this tortuous route, the Department of Labour and National Service has its say. Here we have delay pyramided on top of delay. No wonder there is grave discontent in every section of the Post Office.  Mr O'Grady  said: 
I have found myself completely humiliated when Union deputations called on me. No matter what my views, 1 was required to keep a poker face and not let them think by nod or wink that I was sympathetic to their case. 
What a set up for a head of a department such as the Post Office.  Mr O'Grady  had to wait until his retirement before he could say this. He went on:  lt would seem that, if the Post Office is to be made into a truly business undertaking, the number of outside bodies having a say in such important matters ought to be reduced to a minimum. 
He stated further: 
I believe the Post Office should have only 2 bodies concerned - the Post Office managers themselves and the Full Court. There should be no other intermediary because this at best results in prolonged delays and at worst causes unnecessary, friction between employees and management. 
Is that not exactly what we get at the present time and have been getting for a long time now?  Mr O'Grady  also said that, if the Post Office is to be put on the basis of being a true business undertaking in reality and not just in name, 'divorcement' from the Commonwealth Public Service Board would be quite essential. That is provided for in the amendment that has been moved. All but one of the unions associated with the Post Office, in discussions, has supported the view that the Postmaster-General's Department should be divorced from the Public Service Board and should be made a separate department controlled by a public corporation. The union that objects is concerned with its lines of promotion in the Public Service, which is important to that union; but that should not be an insurmountable obstacle to any reform. The other unions consider that if the proposed reform took place there would be better services to the community and industrial relations would improve. 
I have drawn attention already to the document relating to the reorganisation of the Post Office in Great Britain. This document was presented to the House of Commons in March 1967. Part of it states: 
The Government concluded that the process begun in 1932 should be carried to its logical conclusion. A public corporation should be created to run these great businesses with a structure and method designed directly to meet their needs, drawing on the best modern practice. 
Paragraph 6 of the same document states: 
The Post Office is a major Department of State. Practically the whole of it is involved in the constitutional change. This is an undertaking without precedent. Moreover, Post Office services are an integral part of the nation's life. In addition to communications, the Post Office provides part of the machinery of the Social Security System and many other kinds of business are transacted at Post Office counters. The Government's objective is to create an authority which will - be responsible for developing the most efficient services possible, at the lowest charges consistent with sound financial policies. - carry on in a worthy manner the Post Office tradition of service to the public. -develop relations with its staff in a forward looking and progressive way. 
These passages emphasised efficient service at the lowest charges and good staff relationship. 
On page 12 of the document, paragraph 52 refers to the authority developing relations with its staff in a forward looking and progressive way. It states: 
Without detriment to the responsibilities of managers to manage, the Government will expect the Corporation to promote the most constructive relationships between the management and the staff. 
The Post Office Corporation in the United Kingdom commenced operations on 1st October 1969. The responsibility for the day to day running of the Corporation lies with a board of 8 members, whose chairman is appointed for a 5-year period. The Minister for Posts and Telecommunications, formerly the Postmaster-General, retains overall responsibility. As a public corporation, the Post Office has new powers to borrow from sources other than the Exchequer, but the bulk of its finances still comes from this source. 
The amendment that we have moved provides for the severance of the Postmas ter-General's Department from Public Service Board control. The PostmasterGeneral might consider going further than that. He might now adopt our earlier proposal that a joint select committee or some other body outside the Parliament be given the authority to inquire into the desirability and practicability of establishing a public corporation to control the business of the Post Office or possibly only the telecommunication side of the Post Office. Whatever is finally decided, severance from Public Service Board control is a reform that is needed urgently. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It is interesting to look at the Government back bench and see so many distinguished - or should I say extinguished - former Ministers, including a former Prime Minister, who have been dismissed from office. It is shocking to think that the former Prime Minister is there on the back bench because of the machinations of  Sir Frank  Packer, the Press baron, who made it clear to the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that he should dismiss him from the position of Minister for Defence. He offended the Establishment and had to go. He would not bend the knee to the Packer Press. He wanted a more humane approach to the needy in the community. He would not allow his Minis ters to accept shares in Comalco Ltd. He wanted to restrict the overseas ownership of Australia's assets. The High Court decision on the restrictive trade practices legislation shows how he laid the foundations to control and regulate big business. In other words, he wanted to do it his way. 
This departure from Liberal-Country Party policy offended the Establishment. They wanted it done their way. With the dismissal of the Prime Minister others who supported him had to be disposed of. So we find the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and others on the back bench. The Prime Minister has been shuffling the pack until there are very few spots left on the cards. I ask him: What is the use of shuffling the cards when a new deck is needed? On this side of the House we have a new deck, a deck that will give the people a fair deal. It cannot be said that they have had a fair deal under this Government. 
It is estimated that the Budget will add $1.57 weekly to the average man's cost of living. Income tax, postage, telephone calls, television and radio licences will all be increased. Chemists' fees for pharmaceutical benefits prescriptions will be doubled as a result of a Bill introduced in this Parliament today. All of these things will go up as a result of the Budget. The income tax levy will be doubled and will now be 5 per cent. This means that a man earning $80 a week will pay another $18.50 a year in income tax, It will now cost 7c to post a letter, which is an increase of 17 per cent. Telephone calls will jump to 4. 5c, an increase of 19 per cent. Telephone connection fees will rise to $50 and the rental will go up to $55, which is a rental of over $1 a week. Cigarettes will cost from about 4c more for a packet of 20. The price of petrol will rise by 2c a gallon. As I have mentioned, chemists' prescription fees will go up from 50c to $1 . 
Whatever is given in increases in pensions and child endowment will be more than swallowed up in increased costs. The Budget is designed to reduce the take home pay of the ordinary people. Not only will it reduce the amount they take home but also, by increased costs, it will reduce the purchasing power of the people. It has been suggested that this Budget could tip the economy into a recession. The economic indicators clearly show that this is so. There is no doubt that a lot of people, who may not realise it now, are going to suffer. Unemployment is on the increase. The Government has set out to create a higher percentage of unemployment. It wants to see people lined up outside the factory gates looking for jobs. That is part of the Government's policy of disciplining the workers, lt does not make the Opposition happy to see unemployment, as the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  suggested. It makes us very unhappy to think that this pool of unemployment is being created deliberately. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech stated that it had been decided to limit the growth in the numbers employed full time under the Public Service Act. That number also was severely cut back earlier in the economy campaign. This policy will gravely affect the job opportunities of young people leaving school. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has pointed out that the present unemployment figure could rise to 100,000 as a result of the Budget. The Prime Minister himself agreed that this could be so, and he suggested the figure of 100,000. The Budget has been framed with the objective in mind of building up a pool of unemployment. Later estimates are causing greater concern. The Australian Financial Review' of 10th September suggested that the number of unemployed could rise to 150,000. A more conservative estimate is 120,000. 
The August review of the employment situation shows that, seasonally adjusted, 75,000 people were out of work - an increase of 6.6 per cent over the previous month - while registered job vacancies have fallen by 4.2 per cent to 34,673. In other words, there are more than 2 people available for every job vacancy .The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the Leader of the Opposition by way of questions have pointed out that the number of man hours lost through unemployment over the last few months is greater in terms of production than the man hours lost through strikes. The Prime Minister now regrets supporting the suggestion that unemployment could rise to 100,000 in January next. He accuses people of indulging in a whispering cam paign and says that they want to create alarm and despondency. What he forgets is that the people who support him politically are issuing those warnings.  Mr Blyton,  the  President  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce, when referring to the August figure of 75,000 unemployed, stated: 
These figures are a further indication that the level of economic activity is continuing to ease. 
He called upon the Government to modify policies aimed at dampening demand. The Federal President of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures said: 
It seems that now is the right time for the Government to inject seme renewed life into the economy. 
This is the first Budget that I can remember in which the obvious weaknesses have been revealed before the Budget has actually been passed by the Parliament. The Prime Minister now has doubts about it himself and concedes that there is some danger of a recession in the economy early next year and has stated that action will be taken if this proves to be so. The Leader of the Opposition has called upon him to take action now, not to wait until it is too late. The Prime Minister prefers to wait and see. He reminds me of St Anthony the Hermit who refused to do right because the devil told him to do so. He ignores advice similar in nature given to him from all quarters including  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Blyton, president  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia, the  president  of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and rural interests, all of whom have warned him of the dangerous consequences of deflating the economy. They have also warned him how much harder it is to get things running again once this deflated economy reaches its depth. He said during question time today that statesmanship was required. Statesmanship is required but the nation is not getting it from the Prime Minister or his Government.  His  policies spell economic disaster. 
Without doubt this Budget will increase inflation. Additional taxes and charges must increase prices. One economist has suggested that the overall rate of inflation will be about 7 per cent. This being the case, how can this Government in all conscience call upon the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to clamp down on wage increases. The seeds have been sown in this Budget. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
I might mention, in this budget context, that the Government is considering what might be done by way of strengthening the arbitration system and, in particular, bringing more to the forefront the economic consequences of decisions which are taken within thai system. When these studies have been completed we will consider whether further measures should be taken to cope with the problem of excessive cost and price increases. 
The Government has told the Arbitration Commission before not to increase wages. lt did so in I960 before the big credit squeeze and honourable members will recall the consequences. Since Parliament resumed for the current sittings honourable members on the other side of this House have been making blatant attacks upon the workers of this country. In the Budget Speech threats were made to interfere with the arbitration system. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act is to be amended to force the court to comply with the policy of this Government. What could not be achieved by threats is to be achieved by amending the Act. About 12 months ago we witnessed the spectacle of Ministers of the Crown, headed by the Prime Minister, blatantly using their positions to influence the Arbitration Commission in the interests of employers. The then Prime Minister, speaking as guest of honour at the annual dinner of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales and in the presence of the  President  of the Arbitration Commission, tried to influence the decision of the Commission in the oil industry case. 
This is not something new. Incidents of this nature have been happening for some years. The former Treasurer, now the Prime Minister, at the annual dinner of the Metal Trades Employers' Association, used the occasion to dictate to the  President  of the Commission, who was also a guest, what the attitude of the Commission should be in regard to the applications of the unions for increased wages. I refer to the 1967 work value judgment. So blatant were these attempts to influence the Commission that the  President  has stated that outside attempts to influence it were foolish, stupid and futile; they served only to distract the Commission from the job in hand. 
This Government wants the Arbitration Commission to step into the economic field and take action to remove the responsibility from the Government. This Government has failed to take action to control prices; it has allowed inflation to run riot. It ignored the report of the Vernon Committee on the economy. It has failed to act on the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, published in 1959, which advocated a widening of the economic powers of the Commonwealth. The Government has failed miserably to live up to its responsibilities as regards the economy. It wants to side-step them still further by forcing the Commission to take the responsibility of managing the economy. Who is governing Australia? It is certainly not this Government.  Sir Frank  Packer is having a large say. The other 2 pressure groups controlling this Government are the Democratic Labor Party and the Australian Country Party. The Democratic Labor Party stopped the former Prime Minister from holding a House of Representatives election in 1968 when he had everyone keyed up for it, including his own party. In many other ways too numerous to mention the DLP has been dictating to the Government. 
The Australian national opinion poll reveals that about 60 per cent of the people believe they will be worse off as a result of this Budget. It is loaded against city people in favour of country interests and mainly in favour of the rural aristocracy. One has only to look at the $60m allocated for assistance to the wool industry to prove this and to analyse how the big rural aristocracy is favoured rather than the little people. The Australian Country Party has influence out of all proportion to its voting strength. I want to quote an article from the March 1971 issue of 'Rydge's' although it is not particularly related to the matters I am referring to and which are contained in this Budget. It relates to the power of the Country Party under the heading 'Our Strangled Cities'. It reads: 
Although Australians prefer city life and although the cities have become the principal reservoir of our mature talents and skills, the billycan and bowyang tradition continues to dominate our cultural image and political life. 
Why should this be so? Politically, the city dweller has become disadvantaged: his vote at all levels of Government is worth less than his country cousin's and this is reflected in the low ranking urban problems appear to have in the list of national priorities. 
The bush tail 
The shabbiness of many, of our urban areas is part of the price the community is paying for  a  coalition government in which the bush tail wags the city dog on important developmental issues. Politically this price may be well worth paying but it is building a substantial debit account of neglect which is undermining the quality of life in the cities. 
The honourable member might consider it to be terrible but 1 have not heard from anybody in his Party who is prepared to answer this accusation. 1 draw the attention of honourable members to this article to show how the Country Party tail is wagging the Liberal Party dog. Coming back to this Budget, all the little people will be hit by this Budget. The poor will get poorer and the wealthy will get richer. That is the unfortunate situation brought about by this Budget. The increase in the concessional allowance for education expenses from $300 to $400 is a concession to the wealthy. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, a man on $3,000 a year will have to spend $4 to get a $1 reduction in his tax whereas a man on $30,000 a year will get a tax reduction of $2 for every $3 he spends on educating his children. At one time a man's wage would keep his family in reasonable comfort. Now a family cannot exist on the minimum wage of about $46.30 a week. In order to keep up any sort of standard he has to have 2 jobs, work excessive overtime and his wife has to go out to work. The paltry increase to pensioners does not keep up with the rapid increase in the cost of living. 
I would like to draw attention to some of these factors. The single pension rate is increased to $17.25 which is 19.49 per cent of average weekly earnings of $88.50. The married couple pension rate has been increased by $1 each to $15.25 each which is 17.23 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1949 all pensioners were on the same standard pension and at that time there was a Labor government in power. The 1949 pension represented 26.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Government is always happy to quote average weekly earnings to show how workers wages have advanced and to illustrate how affluent we are. Surely pensioners are entitled to enjoy their share of our so called affluence. It is noticeable that the amount of allowable income is the same - $10 for a single pensioner and $17 for a pensioner couple. 
In 1954 the amount of allowable income - that is, the amount a pensioner could earn without affecting his pension - was the same amount as the pension rate at that time. If that position applied today pensioners would be allowed to have an income equivalent to the amount of the pension without affecting the amount of pension. The allowable income has dropped from 100 per cent in the case of a single pensioner to 57.9 per cent and in the case of a married pensioner couple it has dropped to 55.7 per cent. The allowable income has in fact been almost halved. I could go on and quote other instances of how pensioners have suffered under this Government. This Government stands condemned for its treatment of pensioners. On 15th March, when he gave the pensioners a miserable increase of 50c a week, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said: 
We will follow this immediate increase in pension rates with a fundamental review of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. This review, which has already been commenced, will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emerging decisions into effect for the year 1971-72. 
In the Opposition's amendment, attention has been drawn to this. The amendment proposes that the House condemns the Budget because it breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to the Parliament on taking office to bring into effect in 1971-72 a fundamental review of social services and also methods of adjusting them. The Budget contains no proposals to plan the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government. It produces no programme for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security. All these things that he promised to do at that time were idle promises, no sooner made than broken. This is not unusual. What has happened to the proposed national superannuation scheme? What about the abolition of the means test? These are all promises of the past that have never come to fruition. 
This Government is on its way out. The people are sick of the cards being continually shuffled when what is required is a new pack. The Budget was designed for an election at the end of this year and the Government hoped that its bad effects would not be revealed until after the election. This plan has come unstuck not only because of what happened in the economic sphere but also because of the infighting that has occurred in the Party itself and which has made the Prime Minister punch drunk. The skies are black with the chickens coming home to roost and whenever the next election takes place, sooner or later, this Government will get it where the chicken got the axe. 
Has the Prime Minister refused to provide financial assistance to the Western Australian State Shipping Service to operate its service to Darwin? If so,has he ignored the fact that this is an important service to the Commonwealth territory of Darwin? Would he agree that it is a matter of national importance that the servicing of Darwin should not be surrendered to overseas suppliers? Would it not be in the interests of Western Australia and the Australian community generally for the present service to continue? Bearing this in mind, will he reconsider the matter of a subsidy to maintain the PerthDarwin shipping service? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the. Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 274 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners, therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your Petitoners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Membersof the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizensof the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27 per cent (Sales Tax Exemption and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales  Tax  on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I  present the following petition; 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Houseof Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Aid to Refugees in East Pakistan 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to fulfil the promise of the former Prime Minister regarding the establishment of child minding centres for working mothers. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Is it a fact that Western Australian soldiers returning from Vietnam have to pay the difference between the rail and air fare from Sydney to Perth if they want to fly directly home to their families, the amount being about $60? Is it also a fact that it takes at least 3 days by train from Sydney to Perth and that often there is difficulty in getting a booking? Is it also a fact that sergeants and officers of higher rank travel first class while the rank and file travel second class? Is it correct that when inducted into the Army these men travelled by aeroplane from Perth to Melbourne? If so, why cannot arrangements be made to have them flown back to Perth on their return to Australia? Will the Minister arrange for aeroplane travel from Sydney to Perth in future so that Western Australian soldiers will not be disadvantaged, particularly in view of the question asked in this place the other day requesting that these men be brought back home in time for Christmas Day? 
I present the following petitions: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47i per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I should like to speak to the estimates for the Department of Labour and National Service. I want to refer to wages and unemployment which of course should be the concern of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  For the first time the Minister has sheeted home to where it belongs some of the blame for inflation - on to the shoulders of the employers. I refer to his statement of 6th September 1971 in which he said, inter alia: 
The problem of cost-push inflation and industrial unrest would be less acute if employers . . . pursued fair pricing policies and made real attempts to justify their price increases to the general public. 
This is the first time I can remember that the Government has laid any of the blame for inflation on employers. The Minister still lays most of the blame for inflation on the workers' wage claims and on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for granting such claims. Bearing in mind the increased prices that have been generated by the recent Budget, it is most unreasonable to expect the workers to sit back and bear the brunt of them. It is estimated that the Budget has added more than $2 weekly to the average family man's cost of living. It has reduced the value of the take home pay of the workers and it has added a further impetus to inflation. 
The Government has appealed to employers to pursue fair pricing policies but it has failed to take action to control prices. It has failed miserably to measure up to its responsibilitits to control the economy. How different is the Government's attitude to the workers. It goes much further than calling on the workers to practise wage restraint. It not only brow beats them and threatens them but also has the audacity to bring pressure to bear upon the Arbitration Commission. A few months ago we witnessed Ministers of the Crown blatantly using their positions to influence the Arbitration Commission against the workers and in the interests of the employers. The then Prime Minister, speaking as guest of honour at the annual dinner of die New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures and in the presence of the  President  of the Arbitration Commission, tried to influence the decision of the Commission in the oil industry case. The present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  at the annual dinner of the Metal Trades Employers Federation, in front of the  President  of the Arbitration Commission, used that occasion to tell the Commission what its attitude should be in regard to the application of the unions for increased wages. 
So blatant were these attempts to influence the Commission that the  President  stated that outside attempts to influence it were foolish, stupid and futile; they served only to distract the Commission from the job in hand. Other Ministers who have abused their positions in this way have been similarly rebuked. The former Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  made a most vicious attack on the Commission when it awarded increases in the 1967 wage case. He fired another barb when he said that it was not the job of the Commission to dream up economic theories or to seek to determine the Government's economic policy. On 27th December 1967  Mr Justice  Gallagher and Commissioner Winter in a joint statement from the bench rebuked the then Treasurer for his attack upon the Commissioner's decision in granting pay rises in the 1967 metal trades case. They said that they would not be influenced or 'intimidated' by any party including Ministers. All extraneous utterances, whatever their source or nature, would be ignored. 
How one sided it all is. The Government believes that the price of labour should be controlled, and all the force of the legal machinery is used for that purpose. On the other hand, employers and the Government refuse to exert any control over prices. The important point is that wage increases of themselves do not and cannot increase prices. Prices rise only when employers and commercial interests, including Government undertakings such as the PostmasterGeneral's Department - we have had some debate in this chamber recently about the increasts in the estimates for that Department - make firm decisions to increase prices without any restriction or without having to justify such increases. Decisions are arrived at in the privacy of the board room without any evidence. There is no question of the public interest being represented. Management does not have to justify in any way by argument or evidence before a public tribunal its decisions to increase the price of what it has to sell. Management decisions are based on the fundamental rule that if their costs increase then prices - which, in the simplest terms, determine the employer's income - must be allowed to rise by at least as much as that required to cover the increase in costs. But this right is denied the unions. 
Until 1953 automatic adjustments of the basic wage protected the worker against an increase in prices. This protection was abolished by the then arbitration court at the request of the employers. It was supported by the then Government in office which is now represented by this Government. If ever a Government has shown its prejudice against the workers this Government has done so in its frequent interventions in wage hearings. The Prime Minister made a statement in this Parliament only the other day that the Government intended to oppose any increase in the national wage in the forthcoming national wage case. Through its counsel it has repeatedly supported the submissions of the employers. lt did this in the recent carpenters' case, but the Commission still granted them a $6 increase. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has registered its strong objection to the partisan submissions of the Government directed to denying workers justifiable increases in wages. The increases granted in the carpenters' case must have been justified, otherwise the Commission would not have granted them. 
The counsel for the Government asserts that he is appearing in the public interest, whereas in fact he supports the claims of the employers. What the Government has been successful in doing is to shift the responsibility for economic control and unpopular measures from itself to the Commission. Then it blames the Commission if it gives wage increases to catch up with increased prices. In its 1964 judgment the Arbitration Commission emphasised that there was no control over incomes other than of those whose employment was covered by awards. The Commission said that there was no authoritative control over prices while there was a tight control over wages. I refer to the statement of  Mr Justice  Moore on page 66 of his reasons for judgment when he said: 
The previous statement of the Commission that increases in prices are determined by those who fix prices' is a truth that cannot be emphasised enough. 
The Minister uses the velvet glove when he calls on the employers to pursue fair pricing policies, but he uses the mailed fist when it comes to trying to control the wages of the workers. One would think that the workers were living in the lap of luxury. For a family nowadays to have a reasonable standard of living the husband has either to have 2 jobs or to work considerable overtime. In addition his wife has to work. The Government has failed miserably to live up to its responsibilities. It has allowed inflation to run riot. It ignored the report of the Vernon Committee on the economy. lt has failed to act on the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review of 1959 which advocated the widening of the economic powers of the Commonwealth. The Government wants the workers to carry the responsibility for its mistakes. 
There is no doubt that the policy of full employment in Australia is about to be abolished, if it has not already been abolished. The Government is about to follow the United States of America and the Tory government in the United Kingdom in abandoning the goal of full employment. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech stated that it had been decided to limit the growth in numbers employed full time in the Public Service. This must gravely affect the job opportunities of school leavers. The Prime Minister admits that by next January there could be 100,000 unemployed. Later estimates are causing greater concern. The Financial Review' of 10th September suggested that the figure could rise to 150,000 unemployed. The more conservative estimates are 124,000. I understand that that figure comes from the Minister's own Department. The August review of the unemployment situation- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Once again unemployment has raised its ugly head in our midst. The McMahon Government has the unenviable reputation of setting out with the deliberate intention of creating more unemployment. If this is not so, why did the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  state in his Budget Speech that it had been decided to limit the growth in number? employed full time under the Public Service Act? That number, be it remembered, also was severely cut back in the earlier economy campaign. This policy must gravely affect the job opportunities of young people leaving school. I am not suggesting that the Government wants to create a large pool of unemployment. That would be too dangerous politically. But the Government certainly wants the pool to be larger than it is. I refer to an article in the Australian Financial Review' on an interview with the Treasurer. Under the heading 'Snedden's straight bat on election wicket' it states: 
In a television interview last night, the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  put up a good solid stonewalling performance, refusing to give any single item of concrete information about the present state of the economy or official expectations as to state in a few months' time.  he expected that the level of unemployment would be higher by January-February  But when asked how much higher, he replied. 1 am not going to qualify that'. 
Nevertheless he admitted that the Treasury had made quantitative forecasts of the probable level of unemployment in coming months; these forecasts are presumably not fit for the eyes and ears of this democratic nation. 

 Mr Snedden refused to name the level of. unemployment which he considered politically intolerable. 'I will not give you an answer on that You want me to state a precise figure and 1  won't'. But he conceded Two per cent is far too high'. 
It certainly is too high but that does not say that the Government will not go beyond that figure if it thinks it can get away with it. The level of unemployment will be no higher than the electorate will tolerate. This Government has not forgotten 1961 when it went within one seat of losing government. It will try to avoid that but there is a danger that the economy will get out of hand. 
Unemployment has hit Western Australia badly. We have discussed this with officers of the Trades and Labour Council but they agree that it is a national issue and that the national Government is responsible for the state of the economy. They want it dealt with on a national basis. The Government has failed Australia badly. It has failed to provide adequate finance for urgently needed public works, for schools and for hospitals. The building industry has been hard hit. In Western Australia hundreds are unemployed in the building industry and it is expected that more than a thousand people will be unemployed by Christmas. I draw the attention of the House to pamphlet which the building industry is circulating at present. It states: 
Black Xmas' for over 1,000 WA building workers. The Federal Government's financial policy is destroying the industry. 
Yesterday the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  raised this matter by way of a question addressed to the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  and he pointed out the state of the building industry. The Acting Prime Minister has promised to look into the request of the Trades and Labour Council in regard to this matter. It will be interesting to see his reply. 1 am not just putting a case for Western Australia. This is a national issue, it is Australia-wide, but some areas are hit worse than others. Many country areas have 4 applicants for each job vacancy. 1 am not going into that aspect because the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  will be dealing with it. 
The hard fact it that ever increasing unemployment is now hitting the metropolitan area. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  treats this lightly. In the Estimates debate he said it was only 1.15 per cent of the work force, but it is no light matter for the 63,679 people who are without jobs. The Minister tries to cloud the issue by referring to time lost through strikes. It has already been pointed out in this place that the number of man hours lost through unemployment is greater in terms of production than is the number of man hours lost through strikes. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has referred to this. 
The facts are that  2i  million man days were lost last year through strikes. This is the equivalent to one half-day annually for each member of the work force. For the September quarter there were 63,679 registered unemployed. This is equivalent to over 15 million man days lost through unemployment - about 6 times the loss due to strikes, lt is admitted by the Government that unemployment will worsen. The more conservative figure is 120,000 unemployed by January. Consider the loss that this will be to production. 
I agree,  Mr Speaker,  that it is necessary to compare like with like. The 'Monthly Review of the Employment Situation' for September 1971 makes a comparison with the 1970 position and shows the following seasonally adjusted figures: In 1971 the figure was 84,279 and in 1970 it was 63,144 - an increase this year of 21,135. In 1971 the number registered for unemployment benefits was 24,976 and in 1970 the number was 14,480 - an increase this year of 10,496. In 1971 the unfilled vacancies were 36,429 and in 1970 they were 47,725- a decrease this year of 11,296. These figures tell their own story. The building industry is always a good barometer of the State of the economy. It is slowing down. Many workers have lost their jobs and worse is to follow. The McMahon unemployment pool will develop into a flood that will burst its banks and upset our entire economy unless urgent action is taken. Unemployment has a snowballing effect. Every worker put out of work means that by repercussion, other workers are affected and more unemployment is created. I hope this urgent action that all sections of the community are recommending is not long delayed. The economic indicators show that the recent Budget is tipping the economy into a recession. 
A few weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  suggested that unemployment could reach 100.000. The 'Financial Review' of 10th September suggested the number of unemployed could rise to 150,000. The more conservative forecast is 120,000 unemployed by January. The tragedy is that the Government refuses to acknowledge this. It still clings blindly to the prejudice that all that is wrong with the economy are the wage claims of the workers. Reality shows that the most the wage earner can do is to bold his own in his fight to keep his wages in line with inroads made as a result of inflation. In fact, he does not hold his own. As he gets higher wages he goes into higher income tax groups and so his actual take home pay is reduced. He is continually trailing behind increased prices. 
I return to the matter of increasing unemployment. It should be remembered that this is the time of the year when the figures should be improving in expectation of Christmas orders, but instead we find they are dropping back. I refer to my comparisons for September of this year with September 1970. Year by year and month by month the situation worsens. The figures for September 1971 were worse than those for August and the figures for August were worse than those for July. I should like to remind honourable members of these figures. The August review of the unemployment situation shows that, seasonally adjusted, 75,000 were out of work - an increase of 6.6 per cent over the previous month - while registered job vacancies had fallen by 4.2 per cent to 34,673. There is the story in itself - the figures for August were worse than those for July and the figures for September were worse than those for August, and so it goes on. An important factor is that the unemployment figures never show the true picture. Many people who ais unemployed never register for unemployment benefits. Those who saw 'Four Corners' 2 weeks ago, which had a special segment dealing with unemployment, will remember that of those unemployed persons who were interviewed, not one had registered with the Department of Labour and National Service for employment. They preferred to look for work without registering with that Department. When they were asked why they had not registered they said 'We have to look around to find jobs and the unemployment benefit of $10 a week is not worth worrying about'. 
The Prime Minister and other Ministers now regret supporting the suggestion that the number of unemployed could reach 100,000. The Prime Minister accuses people of indulging in whispering campaigns and says that they want to create alarm and despondency. What he forgets is that people who support him politically are issuing those warnings.  Mr Blyton, President  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia, when referring to the August figures of 75,000 unemployed stated: 
These figures are a further indication that the level of economic activity is continuing to ease. 
How correct. The seasonally adjusted number of unemployed has now increased to 84,000. This shows a further easing of the unemployment position. The Federal  President  of the Association of Manufacturers had something similar to say. So the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  cannot say that we of the Opposition are the prophets of gloom. It is the people who normally support the Government who are saying these things about the economy. 
The obvious weaknesses of the Budget strategy were revealed while the Budget debate was proceeding. The Prime Minister now has doubts about it himself and concedes that some danger to the economy exists and has promised to take action if this proves to be so. He claims that soma action has already been taken but, if it has, it is not apparent to anybody. When he said that some action was proposed or had been taken everybody was astonished because nobody could see where such action had been effective in any way. Unemployment continues to increase and this supports the earlier charge I made that the Government set out deliberately to create a pool of unemployment. I know the pool will not be allowed to get to a stage which would worry the Government politically, if it can possibly avoid it, but these things can get out of hand. Any action that the Government does take will be to maintain this pool at a depth which it can manage, the policy being to line up a number of unemployed outside the factory gates. This is part of the Government's policy to discipline the workers. The Treasurer does not give an exact figure and when questioned he refuses to do so. 
The danger that I and others can see is that the Government may not be able to stem the tide. The policy that is now being followed by the Government is the very policy that was responsible for the resessions of 1956 and 1961 and, remember this, the depression of the 1930s which brought misery and suffering to the unemployed who could see their families living below the breadline. The programme needs to be instituted now to prevent the current downturn in the economy from snowballing into a fully fledged recession. Reference was made in the Budget Speech to a Budget domestic surplus of only $600m. Funds are urgently needed, I refer honourable members to that statement in the Treasurer's Budget Speech at page 46 of Hansard. When the Government talks about a domestic Budget surplus of J 600m surely it can remember that funds are urgently needed for schools, hospitals and houses and that this will get the building industry going again and so create further employment. The Government is condemned for not taking the necessary action to relieve unemployment and for allowing it to worsen. I am purposely cutting down my time in an effort to get a third speaker in this debate. We are told that the Government is allowing only 2 speakers but we hope to get a third speaker. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Navy. Was it announced in 1970 that there was a 5-year construction plan for naval support facilities at Cockburn Sound? Will he advise what its naval capacity will be when the proposed construction is completed? Is it not correct that, as originally announced, it would have very limited naval capacity? Has he noticed that the Prime Minister is referring to these naval support facilities as a naval base? Will the Minister state whether it is intended to extend these naval support facilities into a base as advocated by speakers from both sides of this House? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a thesis prepared by  Mr R.  B. Scotton of Melbourne University in which it is stated that the very rich, when tax deductions are allowed for, can get private ward treatment as cheaply as the poor can get public ward care. 
Is the Minister able to confirm  Mr Scotton's  figures. 
If the position is as stated, does this illustrate an inequitable feature of the National Health Scheme. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Member^ of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925. which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical sub- stances whether gaseous, liquid or solidemployed for their direct toxic effects on mun, animals or planus; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by, that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the Motive of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ration of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received* 
I rise to support the proposal of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  submitted as a matter of urgency, for the provision of an increase in the amount of the gold subsidy. The honourable member has been most persistent that the subsidy should be increased in order to save the gold mining industry from extinction. He has shown today that it is most urgent now to increase the gold subsidy not only to save an industry that is in its death throes but also to prevent many hundreds more workers being added to the unemployment pool in Western Australia. The honourable member has shown very clearly that if this subsidy is not increased it will mean a drop in the population of the area affected by the closing of the gold mining industry of between 25 per cent and 30 per cent. 
The only action that will save this industry is for the Government to heed the pleas of the industry for an increase in the subsidy from $8 to $12 an ounce or a rise in the official price of gold which has been fixed since 1934 at $US34. These are the only actions that can get the remaining producers in the gold industry out of trouble. The United States of America has already refused to increase the price of gold. So the onus of saving the industry rests squarely on the shoulders of this Government. It was announced a few weeks ago that Australia's second biggest gold producers, the Mount Charlotte mine, operated by the Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (Aust.) Ltd, and the Norseman mine of 
Central Norseman Gold Corporation NL, would be phased out of operation. Without the increased subsidy Hill 50, the only other remaining gold mine, will be in difficulty and will no doubt follow suit. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said that it is not the responsibility of the Government to look after each individual's electorate. He said that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie was looking after his own electorate but that it is the responsibility of the Government to look after the interests of this country, and it should be doing so in the case that has been put before the House today. The Treasurer also said that it was. the State Government's responsibility to act in regard to this industry. The State Government has already taken some action. It has provided what is known as a retention allowance for the purpose of keeping tradesmen employed in that industry, when they were in danger of being put off. so they could be passed into the nickel industry. But instead we find that now the nickel industry also is in trouble. This is causing quite a lot of concern in Western Australia and in the gold mining industry. At the annual meeting of Hill 50 in December the  chairman, Mr Stubbs,  stated that it was desirable to keep the mine in operation because of the possible future economics of gold production and the possible utilisation of the plant for nickel. 
The situation in regard to nickel has changed almost overnight. Poseidon and Kambalda are reducing their work force. It is pretty definite that Poseidon will be shelving production plans for Windarra for 2 years - until 1974.  Mr Graham,  the  Deputy  Premier of Western Australia, said in Perth yesterday that he would not be surprised if this were the case while the present economic situation prevails. It would conform to a world-wide pattern, he said. If this Government has refused to increase the gold subsidy because it was expected that any effects from the closing of the gold mining industry would be compensated for by nickel mining taking up the slack, that argument has fallen by the wayside. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  pointed out, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  used this argument a few months ago. Nickel mining is finished for the time being at least. 
What will be the effect if this Government does not increase the subsidy for gold mining from $8 to $12 an ounce? It will mean that at least 25 per cent of the area's population will have to move elsewhere. The population of Mount Magnet will drop from 800 to about 200. The population of Norseman will drop from 1.600 to about 800. These people and their families will have to go elsewhere to look for work. They will have to leave their homes which they will not be able to sell in such circumstances. As a repercussion stores, service stations and many other businesses will be affected. No doubt some will have to close down. So more unemployment will be created. Where will these unemployed people drift to? The obvious place for them to go is to the metropolitan area in the hope of finding some employment. But the employment situation in the metropolitan area is already very bad, as has been pointed out in this House in a previous debate. In fact if is bad throughout Western Australia. 
The Employment Situation Review for October 1971 shows that the number of registered unemployed in October 1971 was 6,488 compared with October 1970 when it was 3,554 - an increase of nearly 3,000 in a period of 12 months. The number of people in receipt of benefits in October 1971 was 1,389 compared with October 1970 when it was 526. There has been a big jump there. When we look at vacancies we see that there are 6,488 unemployed and only 2,336 unfilled vacancies as recorded in that report. In Western Australia we have 4,152 more unemployed than there :irc jobs vacant. There are nearly 3 applicants for every job. What is the position going to be if the ranks of the unemployed are to be swollen by a drift of hundreds more unemployed from the. gold mining areas? 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie showed that gold production has fallen by 200.000 ounces since 1967: So the requested increase in the subsidy, from $8 to SI 2 per oz. would cost no more than the amount that the Government was paying in subsidy in 1967. The amount involved would be about $1.5m. ls this such a great amount to prevent unemployment and to save the gold mining industry? This Government has already increased the wool subsidy by $30m - I think it makes a total now of Si 16m - and this could be a yearly disbursement to that industry. Here we have a contradiction. The Commonwealth Government is increasing the subsidy to the wool industry by $30m but is refusing to save the gold mining industry by increasing the subsidy by $1.5m. Is there an answer to this? The Country Party tail was wagging the Liberal Party dog in regard to the wool industry but on this occasion apparently it i.t not making any effort at all to help the interests which it claims to represent in this Parliament - the people in the country. 
When we compare the 2 products we find that wool has been losing ground in the face of competition from artificial fibres. On the other hand we have a product for which no substitute has been found. Gold is the only proven commodity that is acceptable throughout the world as an unconditional method of final payment. Dollars and sterling have been acceptable only as long as they have been as good as gold. This Government has an opportunity now to save the gold mining industry by the expenditure of $1.5m in additional subsidy, and to save a further inflow of workers to the McMahon unemployment pool. If it declines to take this action it will stand condemned in the eyes of the Australian people. 
I rise to support the amendment so ably moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the substance of which is as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of opinion that the Commonwealth Government should provide the States with adequate funds to enable them to - 
meet the special housing needs of (a) low income earners, (b) pensioners, (c) migrants, (d) Aborigines and (e) deserted wives and similarly disadvantaged people and 
acquire existing dwellings for restoration and allocution by rental or sale'. 
The amendment is well worthy of the support of this House. As the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  stated, the purpose of the Bill is to make direct grants to the States to help them to continue to provide housing for low income groups. It replaces the arrangement which formerly existed under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The States have agreed to this new method of financial assistance but I am sure that none of the States agrees that the amount of financial assistance is sufficient for its housing needs. Western Australia, for instance, needs more finance to provide adequately for the housing needs of those on lower incomes, for those on pensions, for migrants and for others, as is proposed in the amendment. 
I understand that the Premier of Western Australia has asked for $10m to provide housing for Aborigines. The housing of our Aborigines, no matter where it might be, is far from adequate. Professor McDonald, of the Faculty of Child Health at the University of Western Australia, has stated that an Aboriginal baby has 6 times more chance of dying before age 1 than a white baby. He went on to say that preventive measures should include an improvement in living conditions, housing and nutrition. I emphasise 'housing' because that is what the Bill deals with. I hope that the Government will give sympathetic consideration to the request from the Premier of Western Australia. Increased finance not only will provide homes where they are urgently needed but also will help to provide work for the many hundreds of building workers in that State who are unemployed. I am dealing particularly with Western Australia because other honourable members have spoken about some of the other States and have dealt with this matter generally. 
Western Australia needs financial assistance to provide single accommodation. In that State single accommodation is provided for single women after a long waiting period, but lack of finance prevents such accommodation being provided for single men. This Government should give consideration to that point and should provide additional funds for accommodation for single men. They are an important section of the community and accommodation should be provided for them. I ask the Minister to give consideration to that point. The Federal Liberal Government's credit squeeze of 1970 dealt a severe blow to housing in Western Australia. It resulted in the number of new houses and flats started in Perth during that year dropping by 35 per cent as compared with 1969. This was revealed in figures released by the Commonwealth Statistician in April last. They show that the total fell from 17,101 to 10,996. The value of buildings started in Perth fell by $42.3m to $ 112.7m. 
The 'Housing Quarterly' shows that for the June quarter 1971 private housing and flat commencements dropped to 2,687 from 3,407 in the June quarter of 1970, which is a drop of 21 per cent. These figures are revealed in the document put out by the Department. The drop in Government house and flat commencements for the same period was from 413 to 289, a drop of 30 per cent. The total drop in commencements for the June quarter 1971 as compared with the June quarter 1970 was from 3,820 to 2,976, a drop of 21 per cent. These figures are all contained in the Housing Quarterly' for June 1971. That document goes on to say: 
Commencements in the June quarter fell by about 630 or by 18 per cent. Government house commencements fell by nearly 660 to about 250. the lowest quarterly number since the September quarter of 1959, and commencements of Government Hals fell by more than 200 to about 40. Commencements of private flats fell lo about 140. the lowest quarterly number since the December quarter of 1962; private flat commencements have fallen in 7 of the last 8 quarters. The only sector in which commencements increased in the June quarter was private houses by 15 per cent to nearly 2,550. 
The document continues: 
Approvals rose by 6 per cent in the June quarter after falling successively in each of the proceeding 6 quarters. Private houses approved in creased by about 640 or 27 per cent, which was more than might have been expected because nf seasonal influences and nearly 10 per cent more than in the same quarter of the previous vear. The number of private flats approved more than doubled lo about 440, checking a downward '.rend which began 6 quarters earlier. Approvals of Government dwellings fell by 671 to 197 - 23 per cent of their March quarter level and the lowest number since the March quarter of 1959. 
What this report emphasises is that, whilst private accommodation has not been affected, to some extent Government dwellings are falling each quarter. The document goes on to say that the marked increase in private dwelling approvals was largely due to the approval in April of 524 private houses and flats for construction in the Pilbara region. That, of course, is where the mining development is going on. The important point is that both commencements and approvals for Government houses and flats show a big drop. That is what we are discussing in this debate 
In Western Australia there are over 13,000 people on the State Housing Commission books awaiting accommodation. The Waiting period for a purchase home or a rental home is about 4 years. Emergent cases - people living on verandahs, in caravans, in houses required by their owners or in condemned houses - have to wait a long time before accommodation can bc made available to them. This includes people who may have a court eviction order against them. The amount authorised under the Bill will not be sufficient to meet the urgent needs of the many thousand*, on the State Housing Commission books wim are waiting to purchase or rent a house and these are the people in the lower income groups. 
The Government regards housing finance as an economic weapon. When the economy is a bit slack finance is provided for additional housing, but never enough to meet the needs of the people. When the economy has recovered and the need for housing is at its greatest the Government cuts back on housing finance. Finance for housing should be based on the needs of the community and should not be used as an economic weapon in the stopgo policy of this Government. Overall there is a steady deterioration in the number of houses that can be built for those on low incomes, and this report reveals that that is so. In 1968-69 the State housing commissions in Australia built only 8,488 dwellings although there were over 51,000 applications lodged during that year. There was a lag of over 76,000 at the end of 1968-69. This is a serious situation for those on low incomes. They cannot afford high rents. Their only hope of owning a house is to buy it through the State housing commission. 
I was interested in a statement made by the then Minister for Housing on 16th July 1970. She said: 
The fact thai the overall decline in home building activity that has occurred has produced a barely significant increase in unemployment amongst skilled workers, apart from bricklayers in Western Australia. 
That was an important point because J raised it during the course of a debate at that time and said that once it starts with bricklayers it passes on to other sections of the building industry. At this stage 1 want to quote a letter which appeared in the 'Daily News' of 11th November. It was from  Mr H.  R. Fletcher, Assistant Secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union. He said: 
The difficulties confronting the building industry are important to the whole community so both the general public and our Governments should be made aware of what is happening. 
The bricklayers' section was the first to  be hil  by unemployment. 
Some employer organisations had been very active recruiting bricklayers and 720 assisted migrants were brought here in the years 1966 to 1970 inclusive. 
The figure for carpenters was 700 and approximately 3 of them are needed to each bricklayer. 
In December 1969, 3,100 bricklayers were officially listed as working in the major part of of State's building industry. In March 1971 this was down to 2.307. 
Because of the unemployment and bad conditions  in  their industry many bricklayers have either left the Slate to return to their former homes, gone to Eastern States or are working outside their trade in Western Australia. 
Taxpayers' money was spent to get them and the employers concerned and their Governments must accept the responsibility for a work shortage and now the loss of these tradesmen. 
That reference is, of course, to the former Liberal Government of Western Australia and to this Government because the Labor Government in Western Australia has been in office for only 8 months. The letter continued: 
Carpenters have commenced going through the same cycle and thousands of workers will become unemployed if the Federal Government refuses to release the necessary finance to make sufficient work available. 
This is why builders, architects, workers, their unions and other people directly concerned with the industry are trying to persuade the Federal Government to change its policy. 
Bricklayers are, of course, naturally the first affected when housing restrictions apply, but it soon has a snowball effect as is shown in that letter and the rest of the building industry suffers as a result. At that time it affected bricklayers, but now, as is indicated in that letter, it is affecting all workers in the building industry, so much so that the secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union has asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to send the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to Western Australia to investigate unemployment in the building trade on the spot. The union has also asked for $30m to stimulate the building industry. The fact that cannot be ignored is that the building industry has been hard hit by the policy of this Government. The building workers in Western Australia are expecting about 1,000 unemployed by Christmas, and that is a lot of unemployed in one industry. According to what we have heard in the debate tonight, this applies not only to Western Australia but also to the other States. A headline in the 'Australian' of Saturday, 6th November, stated: 'Builders warn of industry "vacuum" in year'. The article states: 
The construction industry last night warned the Federal Government that unless it takes prompt action there will be a serious recession in the industry. 
The warning was issued by the  president  of the Australian Federation of Construction Contractors,  Mr C.  Sexton, who said the Government failed to understand the importance of the industry in the economy. 

 Mr Sexton criticised what he called 'the longstanding and almost traditional habits of governments to use the industry as a whipping horse whenever the economy shows signs of overheating'. 
Surely that is an important matter that we have been stressing in this Parliament. Referring again to Western Australia, every section of the building industry has unemployed members. The position as regards unemployment in that State is bad and, as was pointed out in an earlier debate today, it will become worse as a result of the gold mining industry phasing out and the workers in that industry coming to the city unless the gold subsidy is increased. The October monthly review of the employment situation shows that the number of registered unemployed in October 1971 was 6,488. In 
October 1970 it was 3,554 so there has been an increase of 2,934. Those on unemployment benefits in October 1971 totalled 1,389. In October 1970 the number was 526, so there has been an increase of 863. Looking at the number of unfilled vacancies compared with the number of registered unemployed, we see that there were 2,336 unfilled vacancies, so we have nearly 3 unemployed workers in Western Australia at the present time for every vacancy that is available on the books. 
The Western Australian Government has asked the Commonwealth Government to make it easier for people to own a home. It has been suggested that housing loan interest up to a given figure be made a tax deduction to help young married couples, as is the case in the United Kingdom. Young couples trying to buy a home have their biggest financial problem ia the early years of their marriage. It is a reasonable suggestion that they should be assisted. Interest rates on housing loans should also be reduced. Land speculators have been making huge profits at the expense of home builders. Land prices are more stable now but at an excessively high price; and they have just started to jump again. Land prices have jumped considerably since 1950. In some areas land has doubled its price each 5 years and in other areas doubled its price in less than that time. Land prices in residential areas of Perth are higher than in any other city except Sydney. This unfortunate situation arises when many people with moderate incomes over-extend themselves when buying a house. Unfortunately, they want to keep up with the Joneses. Salesmen seeking a commission should be restrained from encouraging home seekers to buy a house beyond their means. 
The credit squeeze and the increase in interest rates have made it more difficult for young couples to buy homes. More and more couples are having to borrow housing finance at high interest rates and this has been happening for some time. Some are paying mortgage brokers  I2i  per cent, and in some cases 14 per cent. This is because a little while ago - in 1970  -  the building societies and the banks were forced by this Government to restrict lending for housing. The rate of 12i per cent is about 4 per cent more than charges made by building societies and about 5i per cent higher than some bank rates. This Government should be forcing interest rates down, not forcing them up. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out in an earlier debate dealing with this subject, 75 per cent of all housing loans from institutional lenders are now made at rates of interest which in total substantially exceed the value of the loan itself. The cost of interest on an $8,000 savings bank loan in 1949 totalled $4,456. It now totals $8,440 on the same loan. It is also pointed out that 24 per cent of all home buyers are obliged to secure an average of $2,000 from fringe lenders outside the banking system at very high interest rates. 
The proportion of flats being built to houses is excessive. A recent estimate stated that in Western Australia a flat was built for every 2.2 houses. I get complaints - I suppose other members do, too - from families who have had their names down tor a State housing commission house and have had to accept a (flat. What sort of life is it for a family with young children having to live in a flat? Living like that is responsible for some of the growth in child delinquency. These are the slums of tomorrow. I cai) them terraces built on end without backyards. When calculating the extent to which the housing position is deteriorating each year it is necessary to take into account both the increase in population and the demolition of existing houses. It is estimated that in Western Australia 1,000 houses are condemned each year and demolished to make way for factories, offices, freeways and the like. Apart from the natural increase in population there are those people who come from overseas and this places an added burden on the States. 
Immigration is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government and therefore the housing of these people should become a Commonwealth responsibility and the Government should provide funds for this purpose. The number of migrants entering the State of Western Australia is high in proportion to the population and this places an added burden on the State. Instead of helping the people to secure homes, this Government has been responsible for making it more difficult. The credit squeeze has made housing finance more difficult to secure and it has forced up interest rates. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker! assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly, pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
In view of increased costs, will the Government consider increasing the supplementary allowance for single pensioners paying rent from $2 to $4 per week. 
Will the Government also consider extending'' eligibility for supplementary assistance to married couples having to pay rent. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, ernestly request our Government to: 
increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes* 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view or.' the falling'' value of concessional deductions, will - he review the amount of the- - deductions allowable under sections 82b and 82jof the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
When social services are being reviewed, will he give full consideration to (a) granting a full pension to a wife, who is not 60 years of agc, of an age or invalid pensioner, (b) granting supplementary assistance to pensioners owning their own homes to enable them to meet such items as maintenance and (c) increasing the amount of supplementary assistance. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Can he say what transport concessions arc available lo pensioners in each State. 
Can he ako say whether transport concessions are available lo pensioners travelling interstate. 
II interstate concessions are not available, will he arrange for a concession to be made available to pensioners travelling on the Commonwealth Railways. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many persons of pensionable age (a) receive a part pension and (b) do not receive a pension. 
What would be the cost of providing a full pension for (a) all men over the age of 63 and all women over the age of 60 and (b) all men over the age of 70 and all women over the age of 65. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When did Trans-Australia Airlines first apply for a licence to operate a Perth-Darwin service. 
When was the most recent application made. 
Has this application been refused. If not, when will a decision be made. 
If an application has been refused in the past, why was it refused in view of the Government's 2 airline policy. 
asked the . Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the maximum allowable taxation, deduction for the funeral; expenses of a dependant of a taxpayer is $100.  
If so, will he take steps to have this allow ance increased in view of increased costs. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What has been the cost of overseas shipping freights in each year since 1966-67, and what has been the total cost since that year. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Environment and the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities. Did he notice the Minister for Supply when answering a question today give what has become known as the Western Australian and Canberra salute? As the bush fly menace is detrimental to our tourist industry, will he ascertain from the Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation whether any advance has been made to combat the fly menace and report his findings to the House? 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  In this Bill the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has informed the House that unemployment benefits are to be increased. He has stated that the new rates compare very favourably with the rate that applied in 1947. He did not, of course, compare the rates of unemployment benefit with the average weekly earnings, either currently or as applicable in 1947. Such a comparison paints an entirely different picture, as I will demonstrate with figures prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Service. These figures show that in 1947 average weekly earnings were SI 4.80 and at present are $90. In 1947 a man and wife received as unemployment benefit 34 per cent of average weekly earnings. Now. before the increase proposed in this Bill, the same family group receives as unemployment benefit 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. When the proposed increase is granted the unemployment benefit for a man and wife will equal 27.8 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
In 1947 a man with a wife and child received as unemployment benefit 33.8 per cent of average weekly earnings. At present that family group receives 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, and when the increase is granted it will receive 32.8 per cent of average weekly earnings, a percentage lower than that applicable in 1947. In addition the value of the increases will be eroded by inflation before they are introduced. Inflation has been responsible for reducing the purchasing power ot all social service benefits and it will continue to do so. It will not be long before the value of the proposed increase will, to a large extent, disappear. 
The cost of living increased by 7 per cent over the 12 months ended December 1971. Our amendment provides for unemployment benefits to be increased so that they are not below the poverty level established by the 1966 survey by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research of the University of Melbourne, updated in accordance with increased prices. It is important to note that under the Chifley Government unemployment in 1947 was insignificant and concerned mainly workers in transition from one job to another. Now we are faced with a large pool of unemployed deliberately created by this Government. Although the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  earlier denied it, he now admits that unemployment was deliberately increased. In his statement on the consumer price index of 20th January 1972 he said: 
Twelve months ago many of those who are now demanding major 'stimulation' of the economy were equally strongly demanding vigorous action by the Government to deal with the inflationary situation. It should also be kept clearly in mind that the situation they were then concerned with was itself the product, in considerable part, of that very tight labour market the easing of which is now apparent. If the present position in regard to inflation of cost and prices is grim, it would have been much worse in the absence of the action by the Government which its critics now seek to have reversed. 
No Government desires to see unemployment increasing. Those who, like myself, have to play their part in the task of determining the Government's economic policy are well aware of all the points that could be made in this respect, and also of the highly emotional language to which the subject lends itself. Yet there is another side to the matter, and it needs stating. 
For the first time for some years, labour turnover is falling off in many areas; absenteeism and the rapid changing of jobs, with all the waste and costs to the economy they involve, are declining. Employers seeking labour can now more readily obtain it. 
If that is not an admission that unemployment was deliberately created by this Government, despite its former denials, I have not seen one. Unemployment has increased and is continuing to increase. This trend in itself should justify the defeat of this Government at the forthcoming federal election. The McMahon Government has the unenviable reputation of setting out with the deliberate intention of creating a pool of unemployment. If that is not so, what is to be made of the passage I quoted from the speech of the Treasurer? We also note that the Treasurer in his Budget Speech stated that it had been decided to limit the growth in numbers employed full time under the Public Service Act. That number was also severely cut back in the earlier economy campaign. This policy has gravely affected the job opportunities of young people leaving school, so much so that many of them are returning to school rather than face unemployment. 
The Government now realises that it has made a rod for its own back. The outcry from all sections of the community is causing it to have second thoughts, not because it does not want unemployment but because it is concerned at the effect this will have on its electoral prospects. The Government has not forgotten 1961 when it went within one seat of losing office. It realises now that it is faced with the danger of losing office, as it surely will. 
The skies are black with the chickens coming home io roost. There is no doubt that like the proverbial chicken this Government will get it in the neck. Unemployment has risen everywhere in Australia. It has increased in the building industry, which is always a good barometer of the state of the economy. In Wes:ern Australia the building industry has been badly hit as is demonstrated by newspaper reports. The Perth 'Daily News' of 9th February, under the heading 'W.A. Building Slump Is Shown In Figures', stated: 
The serious unemployment in the W.A. building industry is confirmed by figures released today. 
On September 30 last year there were 322 skilled building and construction workers and 94 registered vacancies. Twelve months earlier vacancies had outnumbered unemployed. 
The 'West Australian' of 18th February, under the heading 'Worse Jobs Crisis Seen In Building', stated: 
Unemployment in WA's building industry was likely to get worse in the next few months, the State secretary of the Building Trades Association,  Mr P.  Butler, said yesterday. The number of new houses and flats started in the December quarter of 1971 was the lowest for S years. 
The article went on to point out that the Federal Government was asked to provide $30m to relieve unemployment in the State building industry but a federal grant of only $2.8m was announced at the recent Premiers' Conference: Instead of decreasing, unemployment is increasing. I am not putting a case for Western Australia alone. This is a national issue, lt is Australia wide, but some areas have been hit harder than others. In many areas there are 4 applicants for each job. In some areas 5 unemployed persons apply for each vacancy. The hard fact is that unemployment has continued to increase month by month in recent months and year by year in recent years. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  who spoke in this debate on Tuesday evening, said that the Government was pledged to a policy of full employment. If so, it has a funny way of showing it. Unemployment has increased by 46 per cent over the comparable figure for last year. The figure for this January when compared with the figure for January last year reveals a pretty big increase. We have heard about the number of man hours lost as a result of strikes but the facts are that the number of man hours lost through unemployment have a greater effect on production than do the man hours lost through strikes. 
During ae debate on a matter of public importance last November, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  admitted that the number of unemployed could reach 100,000 in January. Other estimates al that time suggested that the number could reach 120,000. We find now that it has reached more than 130,000. This must mean a terrific loss of production. 1 agree, of course, that one has io compare like with like when comparing figures and it is not much use comparing 2 months which are not comparable. The monthly review of the unemployment situation for January 1972 and January 1971 - these are the official figures - is as follows: In January 1972 there were 130,233 unemployed and in January 1971 the figure was 89,137 which is an increase of more than 41,000, equal to an increase of 46 per cent. There were 37,486 in receipt of unemployment benefits in January 1972 and 18,337 in January 1971, an increase of 19,149. The number more than doubled in that period. There were 42,860 unfilled vacancies in January 1972 and 64,287 in January 1971. So we find that there has been a drop in the number of unfilled vacancies of 21,427. These figures reveal that there are 3 unemployed to every vacancy registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The building industry is always a good barometer of the state of the economy. It continues to slow down. Many workers have lost their jobs and worse is to follow. The McMahon unemployment pool has developed into a flood. It has burst its banks and will upset our entire economy unless urgent action is taken. The action taken so far is not sufficient because unemployment has a snowballing effect. Every worker put out of work means that by repurcussion other workers are affected and more unemployment is created. Indeed, we have seen this over the last few months where the unemployment of qualified workers has had a snowballing effect, creating more unemployment. The economic indicators show that the recent Budget tipped the economy into recession. The 'Financial Review' of 10th September 1971 suggested that the number of unemployed as a result of the Budget could reach 150,000. At the time it seemed to be an excessive figure but since then it has jumped from 63,679 to 130,233 or from 1.15 per cent of the work force to 2.31 per cent, more than doubling in that period. That is what the 'Financial Review' had to say at that time - it could reach 150,000. Where will it end? 
The tragedy is that the Government refuses to acknowledge this. It still clings blindly to the prejudice that all that is wrong with the economy are the wage claims of the workers. The facts are that the wage earner has to prove his claim for an increase before an arbitration tribunal. He has to produce evidence and witnesses to justify his claim. The Government has said that it will oppose the claims and it has done so in the present wage case before the Arbitration Commission. But it does nothing about prices. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd decided on its recent price Increase behind the closed door of its board room. There was no question of evidence, no question of witnesses and no question of the matters which the Arbitration Commission has to take into account. The first announcement was that the increase would be 5.3 per cent. Now we find that on some products it is to be 9 per cent or 10 per cent and steel for the building industry is to go up by 9 per cent. What effect will that have on the cost of housing for the people, particularly the young people, who need homes? 
In his reasons for judgment in the 1964 wages case,  Mr Justice  Moore, who is involved in the present hearing, stated that increases in prices are determined by those who fix prices and that there was no authoritative control over prices although there was a tight control over wages. But the Government ignored this and continues to refuse to consider price control - one law for the rich and another for the workers. It is prepared to fix wages but not prices. Reality shows that the most the wage earner can do is hold his own in his fight to keep his wages in line with the inroads made by inflation. In fact, he does not hold his own. As he gets higher wages, he moves into higher income tax groups and so his actual take home pay is eroded and he is continually trailing behind increased prices. Month by month unemployment has worsened; year by year it worsens. This January, as I have said, there is 46 per cent more unemployment than there was in January last year. The figure for December 1971 increased considerably over that for December 1970 and so it goes on. The important factor is that the unemployment figures never show the true position. Many of those unemployed never register for unemployment benefits. Those who saw 'Four Corners' a few weeks ago, which dealt with unemployment, will remember that of those unemployed persons who were interviewed not one had registered. They were looking for work without registering with the Department of Labour and National Service. I have obtained an article from the parliamentary library dealing with this matter. It is called 'The Hidden Workless' and deals with the unemployment situation in Britain. It bears out the argument which I have just been putting forward. The summary of the article states: 
Since 1948 official British unemployment figures have been entirely based on the number of people registered at the employment exchanges as out of work. But the 1966 10 per cent sample census showed that about 23 per cent of unemployed men and well over 40 per cent of unemployed women in good health did not register their unemployment. 
To a certain extent that applies in Australia. For instance, the figures of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics do not coincide with those of the Department of Labour and National Service. The honourable member for Oxley, when moving this amendment, pointed out that the difference ranges from 17 per cent to 33 per cent which means that the figure of 130,000 odd should be increased by anything from 26,000 to 43,000 to gel the real pool of unemployment that has been created in our midst. The Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Services accuse people of indulging in whispering campaigns and say that these people want to create alarm and despondency. What they forget is that the people who support them politically have been among their greatest critics.  Mr Blyton, president  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce, when referring to unemployment said: 
These figures are a further indication that the level of economic activity is continuing to ease. 
The federal president of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures has said something similar. The obvious weakness of the 
Budget strategy was revealed even while the Budget was being debated in this place. The Government would not acknowledge it but now it has its doubts about it and recognises that some action is necessary. But any action taken so far has not been effective. Unemployment continues to increase, thus supporting the charge I made last November during the debate on the matter of public importance that the Government had deliberately set out to create a pool of unemployement This has now been admitted by the Treasurer. The Government will not want unemployment to affect its electoral prospects but the people in their own minds have already decided to toss this crowd out of office when the elections take place, and the sooner the better. Any action that the Government does take will be to maintain this pool. The Government will try to reduce it to an acceptable level, but it still wants this pool of unemployed. To line up a number of unemployed outside the factory gates is part of the Government's policy to discipline workers. The danger is that the Government may not be able to stem the tide. That is a very real danger at present. The policy that has been followed by the Government is the very policy that was responsible for the recessions of 1956 and 1961 and, indeed, the depression of the 1930s, bringing misery and suffering to the unemployed who saw their families living below the breadline. The Goverment stands condemned for deliberately creating a pool of unemployment, as admitted by the Treasurer in his statement on 20th January. 1 support the amendment and commend it to the Parliament. 
asked the  Minister representing the Minister  for  Health,  upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the annual death rate from lung cancer is increasing each year. 
What has been the average annual death rate from lung cancer in Australia since 1961. 
Will the Minister confer with the PostmasterGeneral with a view to the imposition of a complete ban on the advertising of cigarettes on television. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When was a Commonwealth subsidy first paid to the States in respect of each bed occupied in a public or approved hospital. 
What was the rate of subsidy when first introduced and what is the rate now. 
What was the public ward bed charge in each State when the subsidy was first paid, and what is the charge now. 
When was the current rate of subsidy introduced, and what was the public ward bed charge in each State immediately prior to that time. 
In directing my question to the Treasurer I refer to his address to the Federated Taxpayers Association in which he implied that a family unit scheme of taxation was a possible course of action, although he later withdrew it. Would he agree that such a scheme would place an unwarranted burden on married couples, both working? Would he also agree that when amendments to the taxation law are being considered, consideration should be given to making interest on mortgages an allowable deduction as suggested by the Company Directors Association of Australia? 
I wish to speak against this Bill which seeks to amend the Public Service Arbitration Act. The Opposition will vote against it when the time comes. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  commenced his second reading speech by saying: 
The purpose of the Bill is to make provision - in a similar manner to the provision in section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act - for the Public Service arbitration tribunal to deal with what are termed 'industrial situations'. In short, these are strikes, bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. 
At first sight nothing much appears to be wrong with section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Inter aiia, it provides that the Commissioner shall take such steps as he thinks fit for the prompt prevention or settlement of a dispute by conciliation, or if in his opinion conciliation is unlikely to succeed or has failed, by arbitration. However, there is a sting in the tail of this Bill which is revealed later. Actually it goes beyond the provisions of section 28 of the Act. I want to say at the outset that the Opposition believes in conciliation. If that fails we support matters being settled by arbitration. The chief objectives of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are: 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes. 
Unfortunately this Bill is not aimed at strengthening these great objectives. Conciliation means bringing together into harmony the parties to a dipute to that their differences may be settled amicably. The Minister proposes to introduce certain objectionable features into the Public Service Arbitration Act which will have the opposite effect. Instead of harmony there will be disharmony. The Minister got off on the wrong leg when he introduced this Bid. He is accused by white collar worker organisations of having broken his word. He gave them an undertaking last year that he would hold discussions with them before introducing amendments to the Public Service Act. The Minister stated in his second reading speech that he was not referring to this particular matter, but that is the opinion of the Public Service organisations. I refer to an article headed Lynch Broke Word Say Public Service Union Leaders' which appeared in (he Australian' of 10th March 1972. The article went on: 
Leaders of 450,000 while collar unionists yesterday accused the Minister for Labour,  Mr Lynch,  of breaching an undertaking he gave them last year about changes to the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitration Act. . . . The Federal  President  of the CCPSO,  Mr D.  Linehan, said that in a statement to Parliament on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act on 7th December  Mr Lynch  said that there would be consultations with interested parlies on other related legislation as the need arose. 
I think the Minister owed it to those unions at least to discuss this legislation before he introduced it. The Minister in his second reading speech posed this question: 
Why, then, is this legislation being introduced? 
He then proceeded to answer his own question. He said that the existing processes of the Public Service Arbitration Act are not designed to deal with situations of direct industrial action. He pointed out that more than 250,000 workers, or a little over 6 per cent of the total number of wage and salary earners, come within the jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator. That is so. In fact, the Public Service Board's jurisdication has become unwieldy. There is no question about that. That is why we have suggested from this side of the House from time to time that the Post Office should be severed from the control of the Public Service Board. Over 100,000 employees of the Past Office are under the control of the Public Service Board. They represent in fact about 25 per cent of the total number of employees who come within the jurisdiction of the Public Service Board. 
The Minister in his second reading speech directed his attack mainly against the pos'.al workers. The situation would have been resolved if the Government had taken notice of our suggestion and had removed the Post Office from Public Service Board control. As a consequence postal workers would have been covered by the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and not by the Public Service Arbitration Act. I think the Minister should note that. There have been bad staff relations in the Australian Post Office for as long as 1 can remember. That matter has been raised in this House time and time again. The reason for those bad relations is not difficult to find. To a large extent they can be attributed to the existing set-up. 

 Mr O'Grady, a former DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs who retired about 7 years ago, has commented on this aspect publicly.  His  comments appeared in the Australian5 of 30th October 1967, and I shall quote extracts from that report. Before I do so, I repeat that the Post Office has a staff of over 100,000 yet the administration of the Post Office has no power to deal directly with the wage claims of its employees. The unions must first place their claims before the Public Service Board and, failing agreement, then before the Public Service Arbitrator. Along this tortuous route the Department of Labour and National Service has its say. Delay is pyramided on top of delay. It is no wonder that there is grave discontent in every union associated with the Post Office.  Mr O'Grady  said: 
have found myself completely humiliated when union deputations called on me. No matter what my views, I was required to keep a poker face and not let them think by nod or wink that  I  was sympathetic to (heir case. 
He had to wait until retirement before he could make that statement. As DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs with over 100,000 employees he could only listen to their complaints. He was tied up in such a way by Public Service Board control that he could not do anything about their claims. What a ridiculous situation.  Mr O'Grady  went on: 
It would seem that if the Post Office is to be made into a truly business undertaking, the number of outside bodies having a say in such important matters ought to be reduced to a minimum. I believe that the Post Office should have only 2 bodies concerned - the Post Office managers themselves and the Full Court. There should be no other intermediary because this at best results in prolonged delays and at worst causes unnecessary friction between employees and management. 
That is a statement by a former DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs about the way in which he was tied hand and foot in the biggest business undertaking in Australia - The Australian Post Office - when dealing with his employees. He also said that if the Post Office is to be put on the basis of being a true business undertaking in reality and not just in name, divorce from the Commonwealth Public Service Board would be essential. We have put this proposition here before, but the Government has refused to grasp the nettle. The unions that have been under attack by the Minister support the view that the Post Office should be severed from Public Service Board control, lt follows that they would then have only 2 bodies dealing with Post Office disputes - the Post Office itself and, if employees could not get their arguments in regard to wage rates determined there, finally the Commission. Surely this arrangement would have been of big assistance in helping to solve some of the difficulties which the Post Office finds itself in from time to time. 1 refer again to the question posed by the Minister which was: 'Why is this legislation being introduced?' However, instead of the Minister answering the question, I will answer it. It is being introduced mainly as a weapon to use against the postal unions. But there is a far more sinister purpose. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has announced his intention to quarantine' the 9 per cent increase in salaries given to white collar workers in Victoria and which has since applied to certain salaried officers in New South Wales. 
The Administrative and Clerical Officers Association has filed an application with the Public Service Board for a flow on to similar gradings in the Commonwealth Public Service. The Government is using pressure on the Board to prevent this flow on. The decision is expected shortly. Hence the undue speed with which the Minister has introduced this legislation without keeping bis promise to consult with the unions therefore any amendments to the Public Service Arbitration Act were introduced. The Government possibly expects some retaliation from the unions concerned if the flow on is refused. The organisations concerned would be acting irresponsibly if they did not pursue these claims for the 9 per cent increase. It is their job, of course, to look after the interests of their members. The organisations are asking for increases similar to those that have applied to other employees in the workforce. 
In its 1966-67 report, the Public Service Board, when referring to the number of determinations it had made, had this to say: 
The chart illustrates the Board's continuing emphasis on conciliation and negotiation with staff associations as distinct from arbitration or the fixation of pay rates unilaterally by administrative action. The Board believes that its emphasis on full negotiations with staff associations is appropriate and desirable in the circumstances of the Commonwealth Service, even though it involves more work for the staff associations and for the Board itself. 
It went on: 
In determining rates of pay for each employment group, the Board therefore pays due regard to the information available to it on rates paid by other employers in the market for comparable work. 
The Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour and National Service want the Public Service Board to ignore the rates paid by other employers for comparable work. It is no wonder that there is grave dissatisfaction on the part of the Public Service organisations when they know thai undue pressure is being brought to bear on the Public Service Board to depart from its course of action and to refuse to apply to its own employees the wages and salaries that are being paid by other employers for comparable work by their employees. By its action this Government is creating disharmony in the ranks of the Public Service. 
The Government, of course, wants to freeze wages but refuses to act similarly as regards prices, rents and dividends. The Government believes that the price of labour should be controlled and all the forces of our legal machinery used for this purpose. Business interests on the other hand are allowed to increase prices at their own whim. Decisions are arrived at in private, without evidence and without a case in opposition being heard. No wonder workers become dissatisfied and disgruntled and threaten to take industrial action to get their wrongs righted. Why should workers not resent these attacks upon their efforts to get wage justice when after the Government restored the investment allowance on plant following much lobbying by manufacturers, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and its subsidiaries increased the prices of steel by a base rate of 5.3 per cent, and in some cases from 9 to 10 per cent? They get a dual benefit for their shareholders at the expense of the worker and the consumer. The Prime Minister and the Peputy Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  agreed with the BHP increases, the only complaint being as to the timing. It is no wonder that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its 1964 wage decision emphasised that whilst there is a tight control over wages there is no overall authoritative control of prices. 
The Commission emphasised that there was no control over incomes other than those whose employment was covered by awards.  Mr Justice  Moore, at page 66 of his reasons for judgment, pointed out that the previous statement of the Commission that increases in prices were determined by those who fixed prices, is a truth that cannot be emphasised enough. Of course, the Government ignores this part. The only thing that it is concerned about is fixing wages and letting other things take their course. 
The Minister mentioned that the processes of the Act have remained virtually unchanged since the first Public Service Arbitration Act was enacted in 1920. Actually the first legislation to give Public Service employees the right to apply to the Commonwealth court was introduced in 1911 by the Fisher Labor Government. In 1920 the first Public Service Arbitrator was appointed. In 1952 the Act was amended to provide for appeals to the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, as it then was. In 1969 an amendment provided for the appointment of  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrators and 2 of them were appointed. There was considerable unrest, honourable members will remember, in the Public Service, because the claims of members were taking too long to be heard. For the first time, almost unheard of events were being threatened. White collar workers were threatening direct action. 
I said at the outset that this Bill went beyond the provisions of section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to which the Minister refers. The Minister stated that the purpose of the Bil! is to provide for the Public Service Arbitration Tribunal to deal with what are termed 'industrial situations5. The definition of 'industrial situation' in the Bill - and this is worthwhile drawing attention to - is as follows: Industrial situation' means - 
the refusal or failure to perform work, including (without limiting the generality of the preceding words of this paragraph) the refusal or failure to perform work in a particular manner, at a particular place or at a particular time or while particular circumstaces exist; 
the unauthorized interruption, delaying or obstruction of, or any unauthorized limitation on, the performance of work; 
the performance of work in an unauthorized manner or at an unauthorized time, being a manner or time so different from the usual manner or time of the performance of that work that there would be a limitation or restriction on, or a tendency to limit or restrict, the amount or volume of work performed or the output or production of work; or 
the unauthorized adoption of such a practice in relation to work that there would be a limitation or restriction on, or a tendency to limit or restrict, the amount or volume of work performed or the output or production of work;"; and lt should be noted that there is no definition of 'work' in the Bill so the effect of the Bill could be stretched !o cover industrial action outside the Commonwealth Public Service. I refer, for example, to a power strike, a transport stoppage or some other outside dispute, which could constitute an 'industrial situation' within the present definition of that expression. There is nothing in the remainder of 'he Bill that necessarily restricts the legislation to work bans imposed by Commonwealth employees. Clause 3 (b) of the Bill proposes to add a new subsection to section 3 of the Act and reads as follows: 
Conduct is capable of constituting an industrial situation for the purposes of this Act notwithstanding that that conduct relates to part only of the duties that officers or employee;, are required to prform in the course of their employment. 
The proper view to be taken of proposed new section 3 (2.) is that it is intended to enlarge the definition of 'industrial situations' to encompass partial work bans, etc., which might not otherwise be thought to come within the definition of 'industrial situation'. An examination of the other provisions of the Bill to see what conse quences may flow from the existence of an industrial situation' does nothing to restrict the scope of the expression. For example, if the powers of the Arbitrator were directed only to terminating or preventing the occurrence of an industrial situation, it would be fairly clear that only industrial action taken by Commonwealth employees could constitute an industrial situation. However, the consequences that may How from an industrial situation, which are set out in proposed new sections 12b and 12f of the Act, are not so restricted. 
Proposed new section 12b limits the application of the other proposed new sections to an industrial situation and to the extent to which officers or employees of the Public Service are concerned in or affected by the industrial situation. Commonwealth employees can be affected by almost any industrial action, whether or not it is taken in an area of Commonwealth employment. For example. employees in the Commonwealth Clothing Factory could be affected by a power strike which brought production to a standstill at the factory. Proposed new section 12b therefore does not impose any significant restriction on the scope of the Bill. Proposed new section 12d empowers the Arbitrator to call a conference of the organisations, departments or Ministers affected by the industrial situation and to make such orders as he thinks necessary or desirable by reason of the existence or likely occurrence of the situation. The orders may relate to conditions of employment of officers or employees who are affected or are likely to be affected by the situation. Having regard to the width of the provisions, the Arbitrator could make an order that the pay of the Commonwealth employees at the Clothing Factory be suspended for as long as the power strike continued - even though the strike had nothing to do with the Commonwealth Public Service. 
The Minister makes it clear that the purpose of the Bill is to enable action to be taken where officers and employees in the Public Service either threaten to or in fact do take part in industrial action. The scope of the legislation is such that officers and employees in the Public Service who are innocent victims of industrial action taken outside the Service may be penalised. Surely that is unfair. The Minister also indicated in his speech that the Bill would cover situations in which officers or employees refused to do all the duties required of them. The definition of 'industrial situation' is such that a refusal to perform work that was outside an officer's normal work area would constitute an industrial situation and could give rise to the exercise of all the powers mentioned in the Bill. 
Section 28 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which, in effect, the Minister said was the provision on which the new Bill is based, bears little relationship, if analysed, to the Bill, lt states: 
(I.) Subject to this Act, if it appears to a commissioner that an industrial dispute has occurred or is likely to occur, he shall, whether he has been notified under this section or not, immediately ascertain the parties to the industrial dispute and the matters which form the subject of that dispute and shall take such steps as he thinks fit for the prompt prevention or settlement of that dispute by conciliation or, if in his opinion conciliation is unlikely to succeed or has failed, by arbitration. (2.) As soon as an organization or employer becomes aware of the existence of an industrial dispute or of an industrial situation which is likely to give rise to an industrial dispute the organization or employer shall forthwith notify a Commissioner or the Registrar accordingly. (3.) A Minister who is aware of the existence of an industrial dispute or of an industrial situation which is likely to give rise to an industrial dispute may notify a Commissioner or the Registrar accordingly.  lt is apparent from the terms of subsection (I.) that the Commissioner's powers and obligations are to ascertain the parties to the dispute and to deal only with the parties. He could not make an order directed at a third party who was affected by the dispute. The Public Service Arbitrator and his Deputies can go further than that, so that in this respect the provisions of the Public Service Arbitration Bill place Commonwealth employees in a far worse position than that which applies to other workers under section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 1 have said sufficient, 1 think, to show that the Bill is very loosely drafted. Obviously it was prepared in a hurry and without consultation with the unions concerned - after the Minister had promised to consult with them. I suggest that even at this late stage the Miniser should withdraw the Bill and consult the organisations concerned regarding the proposed new sections that are contained in the Bill. Having said that. I indicate, as I did previously, that the Opposition will vote against the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the annual death rate from lung cancer is increasing each year. 
What has been the average annual death rate from lung cancer in Australia since 1961. 
Will the Minister confer with the PostmasterGeneral with  a  view to the imposition of  a  complete ban on the advertising of cigarettes on television. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports of an allegation by the AttorneyGeneral that the Western Australian Government had issued instructions to the State police not to execute warrants against young men allegedly evading their responsibilities under the National Service Act? Does he know that these allegations have been denied by the Premier, the Minister for Police and the Commissioner of Police of Western Australia? Will he dissociate himself from the Attorney-General's allegation and direct him to withdraw the allegation? 
The Bills we are discussing give effect to the decisions of the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council meeting held on 14th February last. This Conference was called because the decisions of the Premiers Conference held on 16th June last year had failed to meet the needs of the States. It will be remembered that at the June Conference the States reaffirmed their views that they needed access to a new area of growth taxation to assist them in financing the services which the States provide. Finally, although not entirely satisfied, they had to accept the transfer of payroll tax on the basis that it would constitute an addition to their means of raising additional revenue. There were offsetting reductions by the Commonwealth to the States of the financial assistance grants. In other words, the grants would have been larger if payroll tax had not been transferred to the States. 
The amounts of the grants were in themselves inadequate for the financial needs of the States. This was clearly shown by the fact that the ink was hardly dry on the agreement when the States decided among  themselves that they would increase the rate of payroll tax by 1 per cent upon its transfer to them. Over the years, the Commonwealth has assumed responsibility for many matters that were mainly the responsibility of the States under the Constitution. This has been done by periodic agreements between the Commonwealth and the States under which increased proportions of available government revenue calculated by the Commonwealth are distributed by agreement to the States. 
One of the first major steps was the establishment of the Australian Loan Council in 1927 for the purpose of raising loans for public works. It assumes the responsibility for determining the annual amounts to be raised by way of public loans for the economic needs of the States. The Australian Loan Council comprises representatives of the Commonwealth and the States. As is known, the Premiers Conference is held at the same time in conjunction with the Loan Council. Final agreement is always arrived at but it is a bit of a farce, if one analyses the situation. Instead of the Commonwealth and the States meeting to arrange the nation's finances, it has become an organisation in which the States fight for the money they consider they need, with the Commonwealth finally deciding what they will get. The Commonwealth has 2 votes and the States have one each. In addition, the Commonwealth has a casting vote. So, the Commonwealth needs only 2 States on its side in order to carry the day. The voting would then be equal and the Commonwealth could get its way by using its casting vote. No State is satisfied with what it receives, although final agreement is reached because the States must accept what the Commonwealth in fact offers. 
Is it suggested, for instance, that adequate finance has been provided lor such vital State services as education and health and other vital projects? The amount of Commonwealth reimbursement to the States has increased each year. This is necessary in order to keep up with increased costs, but the amount is inadequate to meet the ever growing needs of the ever growing population. The Commonwealth's collections from taxation increase each year while reimbursements to the States increase by a much lower figure. Consequently, the States have to increase the amounts which they receive by way of State taxes. Compared with the Commonwealth the States are handicapped in fund raising. Due to inflation the Commonwealth's finances continue to improve while the States are driven to the wall. 
As wages increase due to price rises the Commonwealth's receipts from income tax grow. The Commonwealth revenue from excise duty and sales tax continues to increase as money continues to lose its value. The States receive their finances from only 2 sources - from the Commonwealth and from within the States themselves. If the Commonwealth does not provide sufficient funds from its resources the States have to look to new fields in which to increase taxes or charges. Hospital charges have been increased in all States. When the Commonwealth hospital benefits scheme was first introduced by a Labor government in 1946 it paid the cost of beds in public wards of private hospitals; the patient did not have to pay anything at that point of time. That situation continued until 1952 when the Liberal Government limited the amount of subsidy so that the patient had to insure himself to meet the full cost of hospitalisation. The amount of the subsidy is now $2 a day, but hospital charges are as much as $30 a day. The patient either pays the excess amount or insures himself to meet some of the amount. Of course, pensioners are entitled to free hospitalisation in public wards of public hospitals, but the States have to meet the bulk of the cost. They have to meet the difference between what the Commonwealth pays and the hospital charges. 
Then there is the matter of transport charges. These charges have been increased in all the States because the giants provided by the Commonwealth have in fact been inadequate. In the 20-year period ending 30th June 1971 the national debt of the Commonwealth has remained about the same, but over the same period the national debt of the States has increased nearly 4 times. I do not want to go into a lot of detail on this question. I have a table which has been compiled by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. I have shown it to the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  and I ask for leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="077131197204121_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service from 'Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1971' published by the Department of the Treasury. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  referred to the unemployment figures in Tasmania, and I want to draw his attention to the fact that the unemployment figures in Western Australia, too, are high. They make out a good case for the provision of additional financial assistance to that State. Al the end of February 2.94 per cent of the work force in Western Australia was unemployed compared with the national average of 2.08 per cent. The economic policies of this Government were responsible for the high level of unemployment. Five out of every 9 men who were registered for unemployment benefits were either unskilled or semiskilled. Of course, it is well known that a lot of workers were coming to Western Australia seeking jobs which really were not available. They were looking for work, particularly in the building industry, in the north and in various other places. But work just was not available for them. Consequently, these workers tended to inflate to some extent the unemployment figures in Western Australia. Let us hops that when the unemployment figures for March are published we will see that the position has improved. 
Much of the burden that Western Australia is carrying is due to the way in which the Commonwealth is milking that State in order to fatten its own revenues and to feed its own extravagances. This applies to the other States in varying degrees. The Commonwealth has ignored the difficulties of a large State with a small population which is trying to develop onethird of the Commonwealth. The development of Western Australia has been rapid but it has been achieved at great cost to government service, and this cost will increase in future years. The difficulties which we face in Western Australia are the result of a small population spread over a big area. For example, we have police stations in some areas which are manned by one policeman and schools which are conducted by one teacher. All of this adds to the cost of providing services. 1 draw attention to the thirty-eighth report (1971) of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. At page 97 the report states: 
In recent years Western Australia's annua] growth rate has been the highest of any State; in 1969- 70 it was more than 70 per cent greater than that of the next highest State (New South Wales) and of Australia as a whole. 
Table 3 on page 100 of the report shows the density of population per square mile for each of the States. The density was 14.76 in New South Wales, 39.19 in Victoria, 2.70 in Queensland, 3.06 in South Australia 1.00 in Western Australia, and 14.88 in Tasmania. The average for the 6 States was 5.05. That gives some indication of one of the problems which face Western Australia. Western Australia has a large area with a small population occupying it. Table 7 on page 102 of the report shows that the Western Australia and Queensland are the least industrialised States of the Commonwealth. It also shows that the proportion of the work force engaged in primary industry in Western Australia is second only to the proportion in Queensland. The table shows the proportion of the work force engaged in primary industry in the various States as follows: New South Wales 7.5 per cent; Victoria, 8.1 per cent; Queensland, 14.7 per cent; South Australia, 10.6 per cent; 
Western Australia 12.8 per cent; and Tasmania, 11.7 per cent The average for the 6 States was 9.5 per cent. The table shows that a high proportion of the workforce in Western Australia is engaged in primary industry. 
Table 8 on page 103 of the report shows farm income as a percentage of total personal income. The percentage has dropped alarmingly in all the States, but the biggest drop has occurred in Western Australia. It dropped from 7.81 per cent in 1968-69 to 2.20 per cent in 1969-70. This is a serious situation throughout Australia, as we all know, but apparently it is more severe in Western Australia. As I have said, all of those figures are contained in the thirty-eighth report (1971) of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
In the past 10 years Western Australia has had an export surplus of about $2,606m, whereas the States of New South Wales and Victoria have had overseas trading deficits. The figures on overseas trade show that this export surplus for Western Australia has been increasing in recent years, no doubt due to the export of minerals. I have another document here which was supplied by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library and which I have also shown to the Minister. I ask for leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
1 rise to support the amendment. I had in mind moving an amendment myself, but I think that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is suitable. I can agree with some of the speakers from the other side of the House. There is no doubt that a large amount of time is taken up by the presentation of petitions and the presentation of them has become very tedious. It has reached the stage when some members do not even bother to come into the chamber until the reading of petitions has finished. We do not even see very many members of the Press in the gallery during that period. Sometimes there is a tedious repetition of the same petition. Figures indicating the growth of the number of petitions presented were quoted by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  He indicated that the number had grown to 723 in 1971. There is no doubt that pressure groups are organising petitions on the same subject so that they can get their point of view before this chamber and gain publicity for the matter in which they are interested. We cannot blame them because they realise that unless they do something like that nothing is done in regard to petitions. It is the only method they have of drawing attention to the subjects with which they are concerned. 
As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker  I have raised the question of what happens to petitions in this  Parliament  time and time again. I think it was as a result of action taken by myself in asking a question of the  Speaker  that this matter was referred to the Standing Orders Committee. In September 1971, as a follow-up to another question I had asked, I asked this question of the Speaker: 
 I draw your attention to a question which I asked on 22nd September 1970 ... It referred to the hundreds of petitions that had been presented to the House during that  session  ... I asked what had happened to the petitions and whether the petitioners were not wasting their time in preparing and signing the petitions just to have them pigeonholed.  I  drew your attention,  Sir, to  the fact that a committee examines petitions presented to the House of Commons and reports on them. I asked you if you would consider adopting such a system here and you said that my request would be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. I now ask: Has anything been done in regard to this matter? 
The  Speaker  replied: 
Yes. The  Clerk  of the House of Representatives  has made inquiries from the House of Commons, the Canadian House of Commons and also the New Zealand Parliament in regard to the manner in which petitions are dealt with in those places. Information has now been received from the respective clerks in those Parliaments and it will be put in concise form and presented to the next meeting of the Standing Orders Committee. 
I am pleased to see from the report we are considering that this has been done and that some action has been recommended by the Standing Orders Committee, but the recommendation does not go far enough. The Committee recommends a new standing order 132 in the following terms: 
A copy of every petition lodged with the  Clerk  and received by the House shall be referred by the  Clerk  to the Minister responsible for the administration of the matter which is the subject of the petition. 
How far does this take us? Will this new provision transfer the petition from one pigeonhole in the basement of this building to a pigeonhole in a Minister's office? That could easily be so. It would lie there for the time being, and I suppose that it would eventually find itself in the same place as petitions find themselves at the present time. So the recommendation that has been put before this House for us to vote on does not mean a thing. Paragraph 29 on page 19 of the report states: 
The point was made that, at present, with no follow-up procedures, members must rely on repetitive presentation and reading in order to gain publicity which may then cause some Government action. If the petitions were forwarded to the appropriate Government department for review and report the need for recurrent presentation and reading could disappear. 
But the Committee does not follow this matter up. Note the words 'for review and report'. This is not provided for in the proposed new standing order 132, which merely provides for a petition to be referred to a Minister. The amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Corio calls upon the Minister to whom the petition has been referred to report to this chamber. I think that would be the intention of this Parliament. We do not want petitions pigeonholed. We want to see at least a report on them. I think the honourable member for Ryan said that there might be difficulty in reporting to the Parliament within 21 days, but a report within that time does not even have to be a final report. The Minister could say that his department was giving further consideration to the matters raised in the petition and that he would report again later. But surely we are entitled to have some information in regard to the matter. The proposed new standing order 132 is not good enough. Some follow-up procedure is urgently needed to satisfy petitioners and members of this House. The type of followup procedure I would like to see was considered by the Standing Orders Committee and is set out on page 18 of the Committee's report. I will not bother to quote it; I just draw attention to it. It is interesting to note what happens in New Zealand in regard to this matter. The information was kindly supplied to me by the  Clerk  of the House, and this is what it said: 
In New Zealand petitions are presented by a Member rising in his place and saying that he has' the honour to present the petition. . ... The petition is then brought to the table where it is' checked. If found to be in order it is then classified by the  Clerk  of the House and sent to one or other of several sessional Select Committees. The Committee  Clerk  then reads the petition and decides what Government department... or departments are concerned with its subject matter and sends a copy of the petition to them foi report In due course, when the report has been received, the consideration of the petition is placed on the agenda for a meeting of the Select Committee. The petitioner is advised of the date set down for its consideration and is invited to attend personally or to be represented by Counsel or by the Member presenting the petition. In any case, the Member is always advised of the date of hearing. On the appointed day the petitioner attends, is introduced to the members of the Committee and then has the departmental reports read in his presence by the departmental officials who then withdraw. The petitioner is then invited to address the Committee or have his story told for him by the Member presenting the petition. That being completed the members of the Committee are invited in turn to address questions to the petitioner. When this questioning concludes the petitioner withdraws and the Committee deliberates. In due course the  Chairman  presents a report to the House. In some cases the Committee reports that it has carefully considered the petition and has no recommendation to make, or recommends that the petition be referred to the Government for inquiry, for consideration, for favourable consideration, or for most favourable consideration. 
In those cases where the Committee has recommended the reference of the petition to the Government, the  Clerk  of the House forwards a copy of the petition and of the report to the departments concerned, and in every case, whatever the report of the Committee, advises the petitioner of the recommendation made on his petition. In due course the department concerned makes a report to a sub-committee of Cabinet which, In turn, makes a recommendation to Cabinet which comes to a decision on the petition. The Secretary of Cabinet then advises the Minister of Internal Affairs of Cabinet's decision and the Secretary for Internal Affairs finally advises the petitioner. 
I am not suggesting that we should go that far, by any stretch of the imagination, and neither does the amendment. But apparently that system works in New Zealand. 
I do not know how it happens but it is operating. That is the point. Anybody who goes to New Zealand and sees the New Zealand Parliament in action knows that the system is working satisfactorily. Maybe, as a result of the action that is taken, they do not have to present as many petitions to their Parliament. For instance, if one petition on a particular subject, such as post offices, is presented to the committee and other people who want to present petitions know that it is being referred to a committee and is being considered they will not want to bother about further petitions until a decision is made. 
If we do not do something more definite, as has been recommended, the. presentation of petitions will be meaningless. They will be received, read by the.  Clerk  instead of by the honourable member, and then left to gather dust in the Minister's office for the time being and then in the parliamentary archives as time goes on. That would not be much different from the present system. I wholeheartedly support the amendment and congratulate the honourable member for Corio for proposing it. 
-I think it is a tragedy that on a matter which calls for a non-party vote Government supporters are voting as one. I want to show how non-political is the attitude of the Opposition. I do so simply by quoting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  It states: 
That the following words be added to the question: subject to the omission of proposed standing order 132 and the addition of the following new standing order: "28a. A Petitions Committee to consist of seven Members, shall be appointed at the commencement of each Parliament to which all petitions shall be referred for examination and reference to the appropriate instrumentality of Government. The Committee shall be empowered to report to the House from time to lime indicating what decisions have been taken by it in regard to the petitions received, if any reports have been received from or action taken by departments, and whether the Committee recommends to the House any action in relation to the petitions".'.  ls this proposition political? Does it not say in the first place that the Committee shall consist of 7 members? Does it not say, in effect, that 4 members of that committee shall be Government members? 
It does say it. 
The honourable member knows that is so. He knows that the Government would appoint the committee and therefore would have a majority of one on it. So do not give us any tripe about that. The honourable member agrees with that surely? 
The honourable member said that himself when he was replying to the debate. So get back in your seat. Honourable members opposite have said that this matter is political. But the Government is to have 4 members on the committee while there will be 3 members from the Opposition. Surely that is reasonable. If that is unreasonable I want to know what is not. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  said that a committee on petitions would act in the same way as the committee on social services. 
I am sorry, I meant to say the Standing Orders Committee, whose report we are now considering. Is he suggesting that the majority of the members of that Committee had caucused and that no consideration would be given to individual views? That is what he is suggesting in effect. He is saying that this petitions committee would act in the same way as the Standing Orders Committee. 
A simple proposition is before this Parliament. It is this: Are petitioners to be pigeonholed or are they to be reviewed and reported upon? All the amendment of the Standing Orders Committee proposes - and the Government has a majority on that Committee - is that petitions be referred to the Minister responsible for the administration of the subject matter of a petition. How far does that take us? It means that the petitions will be transferred from one pigeonhole in the archives where they are placed now to pigeonholes in a Minister's office and finally from those pigeonholes to the archives. This is all that the Committee's amendment amounts to. 
The Standing Orders Committee considered this matter. A majority of the members decided that petitions should be referred lo the Minister concerned but that a report should not be made to the Parliament. Surely members of this Parliament do not want petitions to be pigeonholed. Surely they should be able to consider these matters after *he petitions have been referred to the Minister and he has reported to the Parliament upon them. 
I quoted earlier what happens in New Zealand. The honourable member for Riverina has moved an amendment which, if adopted, would produce a system which is much more simple than that which applies in New Zealand and which should have the support of this Parliament if honourable members do what I consider to be the right thing. We know, that the. New Zealand Parliament is much more advanced than ours as far as democracy is concerned, as is the case with the United Kingdom Parliament and the Canadian Parliament which deal with petitions more quickly. Of course, we expect that to be, the case in New Zealand and the United Kingdom because social services in those countries are treated differently. Both countries have abolished the means test on pensions. Many petitions that are presented to this Parliament deal with the abolition of the means test. This aspect of social services is not a very satisfactory one as far as the Government is concerned. 
This Parliament should deal with petitions in such a way that petitioners will know that their petitions had been dealt with reasonably. What is the use of people presenting petitions to this Parliament - despite the suggestion of the honourable member for Mallee that this be referred to the Standing Orders Committee, - if the result is to be the same as previously, namely, that petitions will be referred to the Minister concerned and nothing else will happen. We want petitions to be referred to the relevant Minister and we want a report on them to be made to this Parliament. We want this Parliament to decide what will be done. 
1 rise to support the amendment which criticises the Government for its delay in bringing down comprehensive amendments to the Navigation Act. I join with my colleagues on this side of the House, the honourable members for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  Swan  (Mr Bennett)  and Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  in their criticisms of the Government for not having brought these amendments down earlier. I remember handling amendments to this Act on behalf of the Opposition in 1967. In May 1967 I wrote to the then Minister for Shipping and Transport on behalf of the Opposition Members Transport Committee regarding the amendments that were proposed to this Act. We had some serious discussions with the then Minister before the introduction of the Government's amendments. On 21st July he wrote a letter to me in my capacity as acting  chairman  of the Opposition Members Transport Committee setting out his views of the proposals made by the Committee. In the third paragraph of his letter - I shall quote it because I think it is very important to this debate - he said: 
In connection with the suggestions that relate to provisions of the Bill or the Navigation Act, I would like to point out that the Bill at present before the House was intended to cover only amendments of the Act necessary to incorporate the provisions of the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, with the addition of 3 or 4 other matters for which amendments were required as a matter of urgency. I am aware that a number of other amendments of the Navigation Act are desirable, and 1 hope that the amending legislation to give effect to them will be introduced during next year. Because of this approach I feel that virtually all of the amendments which the Opposition have suggested would be more appropriately considered for inclusion in a Bill dealing with general amendments rather than the present one which is designed principally to give effect to an international convention. 
That letter was written on 21st July 1967 - almost 5 years ago. 
 I know you were not, but the letter I have quoted shows how this Government dallies in regard to these very important matters. We are still waiting for those amendments which were promised nearly 5 years ago. In the second reading speech of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  reference is made to new registration legislation being introduced as soon as possible. The delay in bringing down amendments to the Navigation Act as promised so long ago does not show much concern on the part of this Government for those who go down to the sea in ships. The Government should show more consideration. A lack of concern about the men of the sea has been apparent throughout the lifetime of this Government, which is now happily coming to a close. The fact that a new International Labour Organisation convention was adopted in 1960 to replace the 1948 convention, and the fact that the Government waited until 1967, 7 years later, to bring down the necessary amendments illustrates the lack of concern of this Government. The present amendments, of course, have been similarly delayed. There is an obligation on this Government to act much more quickly on important matters such as these. 
The Navigation Act has been on (he statute book for over 60 years, and during that period it has been amended 19 times. When it has been amended delays have occurred in implementing some of the amendments. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  by way of question, on many occasions has drawn attention to these delays. Although the Act was amended in 1958 to ratify the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, considerable delay was experienced in making the regulations necessary for the proclamation of the Act. The comments at the bottom of the Act show how these were delayed and how they had to be delayed pending regulations being introduced. The Leader of the Opposition raised this matter on several occasions and was told about the difficulty in framing the regulations. He was still raising this matter in 1964, 6 years after the amendments were inserted in the Act. 
The Government has also been slow to implement the recommendations and conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Some of them have not even been ratified to this date. For an example of this unwarranted and unnecessary delay one needs only to look at the delay which was revealed in implementing the International Regulations lor Preventing Collisions at Sea. These regulations were drawn up in London in 1960 and they were to come into force on all the seas of the world by 1st September 1965. In some of the States the legislation did not come into force until after that date. When this matter was raised with the then Minister for Shipping and Transport he stated that it was necessary for the State governments to undertake to introduce complementary legislation before the Commonwealth could adopt the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea which were drawn up at the 1960 convention. Five years later the States were still being reminded of their international obligations. This delay could have meant that Australians who travelled by ship and those who travelled in Australian waters were deprived of the additional security provided in the international regulations. The Minister concluded his answer by saying: 
In any case, however, the British High Commission has advised that a new order made under the British Merchant Shipping Act 1894 applies the new International Collision Regulations to all Australian States except Queensland. 
If this applies it means that ships which are engaged only in intrastate trade are still registered and operate under the British Act. This is revealed in the Minister's second reading speech. This is another indication of how slowly this Government acts on important matters such as this. 
On 4th May 1966 I asked the then Minister for Shipping and Transport  -  I am not referring to the present Minister - a question which appears at page 1497 of Hansard.  His  reply was non-committal but the question was extremely important and I draw attention to it. I asked: 
Because of the limitations of power over shipping in the Australian Constitution, is there the possibility of orders being made under the Imperial Merchant Shipping Aci 1894, applying shipping regulations to Australian Stales? 
If so, does this emphasise the need for an amendment of the Constitution giving the Commonwealth Parliament more extensive power over shipping? 
Would more extensive powers place the Commonwealth in a better position to implement shipping conventions, treaties and agreements? 
If so, will the Government initiate the necessary legislation for the purpose of amending the Constitution? 
The Minister replied as follows: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
lt is impossible to answer this question without expression of opinion on questions of law. 2., 3. and 4. The Government does not contemplate seeking any amendment of the Constitution in relation to matters referred to in these questions. 
What a shocking answer! The reply was non-committal but I draw attention to the importance of the question. It appears that ships engaged in intrastate trade only are still registered and still operate under the British Act - the Merchant Shipping Act of 1894, which was amended by the United Kingdom Parliament in 1958. But the amendment does not make it clear whether it applies to British ships registered in the Australian States. 
I pose this question to the Minister: Can this Parliament pass laws concerning these intrastate ships? The former Minister did not seem to think so. I wonder what is the opinion of the present Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  Can the State parliaments pass laws concerning these British ships? It is not clear whether they can or not. The Minister should be prepared to answer these questions when he replies. If the States cannot pass these laws, it would appear that the only government that can do so is the United Kingdom Government. 1 draw attention to the reply of the former Minister for Shipping and Transport in the debate on 17th August 1967. He said:  f mention to the honourable member for Stirling that we are asking the State and Commonwealth Standing Committee of Attorneys-General to examine the very complex legislative position which exists with regard to a number of matters such as the constitutional arrangement, the legal position in regard to small craft and a number of other matters. 
That is all he said. Have these conferences taken place? If they have, has anything been reported to this Parliament? I do not think so, and I doubt very much whether the matter has been discussed by the States. It may have been, but we should have been told about it. 
The Australian Parliament should have the same power over all Australian shipping as the Canadian Parliament and the United States Congress have over shipping in their countries. Obviously the Australian Navigation Act should be applicable not only to the Commonwealth and its territories but also to the States. There is a strong case for uniform legislation, equally as strong as it is in the field of civil aviation. There should not be any divided legislative power over navigation in Australia. All vessels going to sea - whether intrastate or interstate - should be covered by the Australian navigation law.  His  Honour Judge Spicer in the marine inquiry into the sinking of the dredge W. D. Atlas' in May 1966 referred to the complicated position that exists in Australia because of the division of power between the Commonwealth and the States. I draw attention to what he said. He pointed out that doubts can arise as to the applicability of the Commonwealth Navigation Act, and that these doubts should be eliminated. The Judge suggested that navigation and shipping is a field in which uniform legislation applicable to all aspects of navigation and shipping in Australian waters is desirable. 
The delay by the Department of Shipping and Transport in carrying out international conventions is in sharp contrast to the speed at which the Department of Civil Aviation is able to give effect to them. High Court decisions given in 1965 in the field of civil aviation have made it clear that the constitutional powers of the Department of Shipping and Transport are much greater than it thought they were. The Department could have acted much more quickly on amendments to the Navigation Act that have been delayed for years. In some cases we have waited years for regulations to be framed. Time after time matters have been raised in this House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and other honourable members on this side of the Parliament. In some cases regulations have never been framed. 
I would like to refer to the registration of overseas trading vessels registered in Australia and referred to in the amendment proposed by the Opposition. The Commonwealth Year Book for  1970  at page 344 shows that there are only  7  Australian owned, Australian registered ships operating as overseas trading vessels. All the other Australian owned ships trading overseas are registered overseas. This is to be deplored. The Commonwealth Government should encourage the registration in Australia of all Australian owned ships. The registration of ships in Australia would mean that they would acquire a national character. All Commonwealth countries except Australia have such legislation. Many of these countries require the same qualifications as the United Kingdom requires - that is, a ship must be owned by a British subject or subjects or a body corporate having its principal place of business in Her Majesty's Dominions. India requires that a proportion of shares shall be held by Indian citizens. Persons qualified to own Australian ships should be Australian citizens, and bodies corporate should have their principal place of business where the Commonwealth of Australia has jurisdiction. 
I recommend to the Minister that urgent consideration be given to these matters. We require legislation giving Australian ships that qualify a national character. Many ships prefer overseas registration. They like to operate under flags of convenience. There are advantages- 
Somebody on the other side said: 'Hear, hear!' 
The honourable member for McPherson said he did. There are advantages andI will tell him what they are. They are advantages similar to those that would operate on the station he owns - the advantages of cheap labour. No migrants are brought to this country on ships flying the Australian flag. In fact the Australian Government is subsidising these shipping lines by giving passages for as low as  $25,  paid by the Australian Government to other countries operating ships with cheap labour. The Minister should impose terms that would prevent ships from coming to this country under a flag of convenience and breaking rules that apply to Australian ships. This Government has been responsible for the loss of all those ships that used to trade on our coast flying the Australian flag - the 'Manoora', the 'Manunda', the 'Kanimbla', the 'Westralia' and the 'Wanganella'. The sale of the last  2  of Australia's coastal passenger ships - the 'Kanimbla' and the Manoora' - marked the decline of the Australian shipping industry during  1961.  In all.  12  ships were sold overseas that year while many other ships were sold later. 
The greatest tragedy of the ships sold in  1961  was that most were not old. Three were less than  15  years old. The 'Baroota' was  9  years old, the 'Borda' was  10  years old and the 'Cronulla' was  13  years old. The working life of a ship is  25  years, but these ships were sold overseas. Somebody should write a book about the rise, decline and disappearance of the fine fleet of Australian passenger ships built up between the  2  wars to serve the coastal trade. It would make a fascinating story. The 'Manoora' was sold to Indonesia. Four ships - the Wanganella', the 'River Norman', the 'River Glenelg" and the 'Kaponga' - weresold and registered in Hong Kong for operations in and out of Australian ports, using cheap labour. They operated under flags of convenience. Too many foreign ships are granted permits to operate on our coast to the detriment of our coastal ships. When permits are granted does the Minister check whether the ships granted the permits comply with section  287  of this Act? I draw his attention to the Act. Section  287  states: 
A ship shall not engage in the coasting trade which is receiving, or which under any arrangement is to receive, or which in the immediately preceding 12 months has been receiving, directly or indirectly, any subsidy or bonus from any Government other than that of a Commonwealth country. 
Is that ever checked? I guarantee it is never checked. Most foreign governments now subsidise their ships and if they are subsidised by a foreign government, they are not supposed to be granted a permit to trade on our coast. That is the position into which the Minister shouldlook. 
When the question of flags of convenience was considered by the International Labour Organisation in  1958  the representatives of the Australian Government, the employers, and the workers joined in condemning the practice. In fact, the recommendations were brought in by the representatives oi the then Australian Government. The Government often speaks with its tongue in its cheek when supporting proposals for reform at  TLO  and condones breaches of such proposals when it is administering it departments. The case that I have quoted is an obvious case. Any vessel operating for reward between Australian ports could be required to pay Australian wages when licensed or on permit. There is obviously a similar provision in the New Zealand Shipping and Seamen's Act. The policy of this Government of permitting British ships with Indian crews to carry coastal passengers has destroyed the Australian coastal passenger fleet. 
When it is suggested that Australia should have its own overseas shipping line there is an immediate cry from the Government that the cost would be prohibitive. I suppose the honourable member for Mcpherson would support that view. The Government says that the cost of building and servicing vessels in Australia and of manning them with Australian crews would add such an enormous burden to the operation of the ships that our ability to trade overseas would suffer dire consequences. Arguments such as this ignore many relevant factors. Vessels of all trading nations ply to our coast. They come from England, the United States, New Zealand, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Italy, Holland, France, Russia, Canada, Japan, India and Greece. Many governments have decided that the operation of a nationally owned fleet is fundamental to independence and defence. In many cases, governments own a majority of shares in shipping companies. This policy is based in the need to preserve and develop trade by retaining a measure of control over freight rates and so prevent another country from forcing a nation's shipping out of the competitive market because of high freight rates. Another factor is the possible need to move troops in case of emergency. 
Many newly emerged countries have acquired their own international fleets. India is one example. Newly independent African countries have done the same. The United States has realised the importance of a nationally owned fleet. It is part owner in the  President  Line and it heavily subsidises shipping in the national interest. The United States Federal Maritime Board has pointed out that out of- 
The Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  spent most of his time talking about matters which were not connected with the Bill. One would have thought that a man in his position as Assistant Minister would at least have confined his remarks to the Bill. After all, what we are debating tonight are amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is an Act which is most important. It is an Act which has been subject to more amendments than any other Act in this Parliament. Over 50 amendments have been made to this Act since it was introduced in 1904. It is a controversial piece of legislation and seems to have created more disputes than it has really solved. 
It is important to note the first two sections of the Act. The first section says that the Act may be cited as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The second section says: 
The chief objectives of the Act are - 
To promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
Unfortunately, these great objectives have not been achieved entirely. The amendments since the inception of the Act in 1904 - whether they were entirely satisfactory or not - had a set purpose. That purpose was to improve the Act in the spirit of those great objectives. The amending Bill that is before the Parliament at the moment works in the other direction. It is purely political. No attempt is made to improve the Act in line with the thinking of the trade union movement and the more advanced employers. In fact its aim is to create dissension in the community purely for political purposes. 
Before the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  brought down his statement of intent in December 1971 meetings had taken place between the employers and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to investigate ways in which the Act could work more smoothly. A lot of progress was made in 1971 and a satisfactory stage of agreement had been reached between the parties. It was at this stage that the Minister stepped in and refused to accept the understanding that had been arrived at. What had been achieved by the unions and the employers was sabotaged by this Government. AH that the Minister would do following the earlier successful meetings was to hear views, but he would not enter into worthwhile discussion. After hearing views he said that he would then go away and consider them.  His  next move was his statement of intent. The attitudes of unions were not even considered before this Bill was introduced into this Parliament. 
The amending legislation will fail because it is a step backwards. It is going to make the processes of conciliation and arbitration too rigid. It is reversing what was an attitude to make conciliation the more important aim of the Act. The 1969 amendments laid stress on conciliation and negotiation before proceeding with sanctions against the unions. The Government at long last had accepted that the main objective of the Act at that stage was 'to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement'. The system became more flexible, and the number of consent awards and agreements indicates that the Act was at least working in that direction. This Bill separates the processes of conciliation and arbitration. What happens under the present Act? An application is assigned to a commissioner or judge who proceeds to hold conferences or who may decide to begin a hearing. In many cases both processes are combined. The judge or commissioner may take part in conferences if considered desirable. He gets to know what are the real issues between parties. Its importance lies in its flexibility. 
But what will happen under this amending Bill? A claim will first go to the conciliation commissioner who will hold conferences. If he feels that he is not making satisfactory progress it will go to an Arbitration commissioner or a judge for arbitration. At that point conciliation ceases. It is cut off completely. The parties to the dispute then have to argue their case before the arbitrator without any further conferences or thoughts of conciliation. Many points formerly settled by conciliation will now go to arbitration. Clause 30 of the Bill says: 
When conciliation proceedings before a Conciliation Commission in respect of an industrial dispute have been completed the Conciliation Commissioner shall report to the relevant Presidential Members as to the matter in dispute and the parties and the extent, if any, to which the dispute has been settled, but shall not disclose anything said or done in the conciliation proceedings concerning the matters in dispute that remain unsettled. 
Have honourable members ever heard anything more ridiculous? It means that the hearings will be lengthened. This Bill has taken us way back in the years of arbitration in this country. It has taken us back to the time when the judge decided to whom he would allocate the work. The aim of this amendment is to stop a union and an employer reaching agreement .so that everything will be controlled by the arbitrator. The honourable member for Hindmarsh rightly drew attention to sections 32 and 33 which confer the power to include or vary bans clauses in awards exercisable by a presidential member only. Formerly they were exercisable by commissioners. The commission would consider the merits of the stoppage, but it must issue a certificate once it is requested to do so. The change in the approach to sanctions is disastrous. In 1969 the then Minister - I believe it was. the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who spoke a while ago - said, and it is interesting to compare these remarks made in 1969 with what he has just said:   . . before action can be taken to use the new sanctions process the Commission will attempt to resolve the issues that lie between the parties. I believe that the existing sanctioning process which involves the use of the Court's injunctionmaking powers under section 109 and its power to punish for contempt under section 111, are no longer appropriate or desirable. 1 believe they suffer from two main deficiencies. First, there is the immediacy of their availability. Second, they do not allow the Court to- take hold of the dispute between the parties and endeavour to assist the parties to resolve that dispute. 
The bans clauses were amended to ensure that when a dispute occurred the merits of it were investigated before any action was taken. It followed the New South Wales Act to some extent. What v/ill happen now? The rights or wrongs of the case will not be investigated. The emphasis will be on a resumption of work. There is an obligation on the commissioner to issue a certificate unless he is satisfied that there will be a prompt settlement. The festering sore that created the dispute will continue to be inflamed. There will be a worsening of industrial relations instead of an improvement. We on this side of the House believe that the sanctions provisions should be repealed. Sections 109 and 111 are the most offensive of the sections. They have created more strikes than they have settled. One would think that the inflicting of penalties was an end in itself; but this is ignoring entirely that the end is to settle industrial disputes as quickly as possible, not to extend them by inflicting severe penalties. It must be realised that this Act with which we are concerned is the Conciliation and Arbitration Act Conciliation comes first; it is placed before arbitration in importance in the Act. This clearly is significant. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
If the parties can reach agreement they will be able to make a memorandum of their agreement and request the Conciliation Commissioner to certify that memorandum as an award or, alternatively, request him to make an award or order giving effect to their agreement. The Conciliation Commissioner will be required to satisfy himself that the agreement reached by the parties is in the public interest. That provision, therefore, continues a like provision to that in section 31 of the Act. 
The existing Act provides for conciliators and commissioners, but it does not say that the whole of the process of conciliation should be done exclusively by them. For instance, section 31 provides for the likelihood that the parties to an industrial dispute may themselves arrive at agreement to govern their industrial relationships. The section does not say anything about the way in which they should do it. The Minister will find that the unions will not register agreements if there is a danger of the agreements being disallowed by appeal or otherwise. They will simply have agreements without their being registered. Proposed sections 34, 35 and 39 emphasise the public interest They are a carry-over from existing section 31 (3.) which states, inter alia, that the arbitration authority may refuse to certify if it is of the opinion 'that it is not in the public interest that the agreement be certified'. Who is to define 'public interest'? The honourable member for Hindmarsh in his very fine address to this House today dealt with the various points that could be affected by public interest. Is it not in the public interest for workers to be paid a reasonable wage so that their families will not have to live in poverty? Is that not a matter which affects the public interest? There are many other related matters with which I cannot deal in the short time 1 have at my disposal. Section 39 is amended by adding the words: 
. the Commission shall, in considering the public interest, have regard, in particular, to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings. 
This is an unwarranted extension of the Government's right to intervene in matters that it considers to be of public interest. It will create delays and additional expense to employee and employer organisations. The Government is passing the buck onto the Arbitration Commission for something that it is not prepared to do itself. It is saying that the Arbitration Commission should do it. This Bill seeks to place the Commission in the position of giving undue weight to economic considerations, even when a just and reasonable case has been advanced for improvements in wage and salary standards or in working conditions. It places the Commission in the invidious position of having to assess the future of the economy. This is something that the Government cannot do, as was revealed in the last Budget, and the shift in ground since then by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It will have a restrictive influence on the Commission in its efforts to come to a just and reasonable decision in accordance with the evidence before it. 
This Government is seeking to make the Commission assume responsibility for the overall economy, a responsibility that obviously can be only properly exercised at Government level, a responsibility that should be exercised at Government level and not by some other body. It is asking the Commission to do the Government's dirty work. The Government's appearance before the national wage case tribunal was not in the public interest, as the Government claims, but in its own narrow political interest. It tries to shift the responsibility for economic control and unpopular measures away from itself to the Commission. The function of controlling the economy is surely the duty of the Government, not the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The primary role of the Commission is to settle industrial disputes, not to manage the economy. The Government has shirked its responsibility for controlling the economy. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 advocated a widening of the economic powers of the Commonwealth. But the Government did not proceed with what was suggested in that report on constitutional reform. It failed to carry out its function when that report of a committee, on which both sides of the House were represented and on which the Government had a majority, recommended a widening of the Commonwealth's responsibilities in the economic sphere. It did not even bother to submit this proposal to the States to get that additional power or, if it could not get it by that means, to get it by means of a referendum. 
This Bill gives the Commissioners big increases in salaries but I do not want to go into that in great depth because the honourable member for Hindmarsh has dealt with it. The increase amounts to more than $4,000 a year or $80 a week. How does that compare with the small amount of $2 added to the total wage and the $4.70 given to those unfortunate workers who are on the minimum wage? One could be excused for making the cynical suggestion that was made in the House today that the $80 to the Commissioners is for services rendered. There is a certain amount of one-sidedness in our method of controlling wages. The Government believes that the price of labour should be controlled and all the force of our legal machinery is used to prevent the worker from putting his own price on his labour. The unions have to go to the arbitration tribunals and argue their case and support it with evidence. The employers present their case in opposition to any increase and the Government comes in on the side of the employers and makes its submissions also. The workers have to abide by the decision, but what happens then? The employers increase their prices to cover the increase in wages, even when these increases in prices are not justified. They can do this at their own whim. Decisions are arrived at in private, without evidence and without a case in opposition being heard. The decisions are made in the secrecy of the board room and the employers selling similar products often combine collectively to fix the price of similar articles. This is the way they work. But the poor old worker has to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and justify his case. The employers, of course, can do it in the way that I have suggested. As a matter of fact, the Arbitration Commission in its 1964 basic wage decision emphasised that there is no control of other incomes and no overall authoritative control of prices. The Commission was referring to the difficulty it was having in meeting workers' claims. 
Increases gained by unions to offset already increased costs can be swallowed up by employers increasing their prices. Those who take huge sums by way of profits and interest payments from the national income do so without having to justify their actions to anyone. Take the recent decision of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to increase its prices by  5i  per cent at a very critical stage of this country's economy. As a matter of fact, the prices of some materials supplied to the building industry were increased by from 9 per cent to 10 per cent. What happened then? Did the Government criticise BHP? No. The Government said that the company was justified in increasing its prices. No charge is ever made by the Government that these companies are taking too much from the national income and thereby endangering the economy and causing production costs and living costs to rise. All the Government's emphasis and spite is levelled at the trade unions. Is it any wonder that the workers threaten direct action and threaten to withdraw from the field of arbitration and rely on direct negotiation to get their wrongs righted? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service introduced these amendments to bring pressure on the unions - to try to curb them. He drew attention to the number of man days lost to industry due to stoppages. This Government created unemployment until it reached the figure of 130,000. It has been admitted that the Government set out deliberately to create unemployment. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has admitted that fact and I have quoted his statement in this Parliament before.  His  statement clearly indicated that he set out deliberately to increase the pool of unemployment that then existed. The number of man hours lost through unemployment was about 5 times that lost through industrial action. The time lost through industrial accidents is greater than the time lost through industrial stoppages. But of course, where this Government is using the relatively small number of stoppages that take place here compared to other countries- 
I do not condone any stoppages. When I was a trade union secretary my job was to try to prevent them. I used to act as a sort of buffer and I think the 
Minister would find that most trade union secretaries do try to prevent stoppages. However, the pressure from the workers often is too great and one cannot do anything about it. When one cannot get the employers to see reason, the stoppages that take place more often than not are justified. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service spoke about industrial stoppages. I should like to quote from an advertisement placed in the 'Economist' of 4th September 1971 by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The advertisement is headed: 
This announcement is sponsored by a leading Australian Bank on behalf of businessmen. 
The Bank is trying to attract people to this great country of ours. The advertisement has 10 points and the second one reads: 
Australia is one of the few countries in the world with a good industrial relations record. 
Yet the Minister suggests that this legislation must be implemented because of the stoppages that are occurring. We have never heard so much rot. The strike weapon is nol illegal in Great Britain, neither is it illegal in the United States of America. Nor is it illegal here. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act does not prohibit strikes. It did so until 1930 when the prohibition was removed. 
It is true that the Commission has power to include in awards bans on strikes but one cannot expect a system of industrial arbitration to eliminate entirely strikes or other forms of direct action. If anyone believes that, they are attributing to arbitration a function it cannot possibly fulfil. The laws of the land are much more easily applied by the State to individuals for the settlement of disputes between them than to exercise compulsion over powerful organisations such as trade unions. It is then dealing with a powerful section of the community. A huge majority of people accept the fact that the common and criminal law courts are enforcing a law with which they themselves agree. But in the field of industrial conflict it is different. There is no set principle of what is fair, reasonable or just. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. I draw his attention to the number of petitions that) have been presented to this Parliament in recent weeks appealing to the Government to increase the age pension to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. I also draw the Minister's attention to standing order 132 which states: 
A copy of every petition lodged with the  Clerk  and received by the House shall be referred by the  Clerk  to the Minister responsible for the administration of the matter which is the subject of the petition. 
I ask: What action has been taken on the subject matter of these petitions referred to his Department? When will he make a report to this Parliament on them? If a report is not to be made, does it mean that these petitions are simply being pigeonholed? 
I refer to clause 68. Its provisions seem clear enough but I think that I should place on record that it deals with the amalgamation of organisations, and it seems that nothing contained in this amending Bill affects the proposed amalgamation which is now in the process of being agreed to by the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia, the Sheet Metal Workers Union and the Amalgamated Engineering Union. Would the Minister confirm that view? 
 I rise to address myself to clause 13 of the Bill. This clause contains 14 proposed new sections and covers 12 pages of the Bill. In fact, it is the most vital clause in the Bill. All the machinery placing conciliation and arbitration in 2 separate compartments is contained in this clause. Under this clause the Government's wage freezing policy is actually implemented. The clause seeks to stop consent awards or agreements from being made without certification of the Full Bench. If we look at proposed new section 22 we see that it deals with powers with respect to conciliation to be exercised by the Conciliation Commissioners and powers in respect of arbitration to be exercised by presidential members and Arbitration Commissioners. This proposed new section has been inserted, we are assured, at the request of certain employers. It separates the principle of conciliation from the principle of arbitration. The flexibility that exists under the Act will disappear and the Act will become much more rigid as a result of this amendment. This Bill seeks to reverse what was an attempt to make conciliation the most important aim of the Act and I refer here, of course, to the 1969 amendments which laid stress on conciliation. At that point of time the Government had at long last accepted that the main objective of the Act should be to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement. The system became much more flexible than it had been previously and the number of consent awards and agreements showed that it was working. 
This Bill separates the processes. It breaks the line of communication. Under the existing Act an application is assigned to a commissioner or judge who proceeds to hold conferences or decides to begin a hearing. In many cases both processes are, combined. The judge or commissioner may take part in conferences if he considers this course desirable and he gets to know what are the real issues in dispute. The importance of this process lies in its flexibility. Under this amendment there will be no flexibility whatever. Once conciliation reaches a barrier that is the end of it. There is a cut off point. There is no going back to have another jump at the hurdle. It cuts off at that point and the matter goes to a commissioner or judge for arbitration. There is no further conference or thought of conciliation. 
I refer honourable members to proposed new section 30. I do not want to quote all of it but it deals with conciliation and points out that:   the Conciliation Commissioner shall report to the relevant Presidential Member as to the matters in dispute and the parties and the extent, if any, to which the dispute has been settled, but shall not disclose anything said or done in the conciliation proceedings concerning matters in dispute that remain unsettled. 
What a stupid section to have in the Act. The arbitrator does not know how close the parties may have been to agreement on the points in dispute. Under the existing system he would know and could arbitrate more effectively having that knowledge. This Bill will mean that apart from the arbitrator not being able to know what has happened, the hearings will be lengthened. The aim of this amendment is clear. It is to stop the unions and employers from reaching agreement. 
I refer now to proposed new section 31 which corresponds with section 33 of the Act. However, the proposed new section goes much further and means that matters such as hours of work, rates of pay where related to the national economy, minimum wage, equal pay, and annual or long service leave all have to be referred to the Full Bench. This is a backward step. It means that in these matters no longer will agreements or consent awards be accepted without intervention by the Full Bench. It is a step to try to prevent direct negotiation and will reduce the effectiveness of our arbitration system as we know it. Proposed new section 32 deals with bans clauses. Under this Bill the power to include or vary bans clauses in an award will be exercisable only by a presidential member. Under section 32 of the Act a commissioner could insert or refuse to insert a bans clause in an award. This was most important. It depended entirely on the merits of the case and the matters in dispute. If the Commissioner considered that the workers were wrong be inserted a bans clause. If he considered the employers were wrong he did not insert the bans clause. The new section gives exclusive power to presidential members and extends that power to the area of registered agreements. It means that a presidential member would have to insert a bans clause in an award. It is difficult to understand why jurisdiction over bans clauses, which are objectionable to the unions, should be the sole preserve of  a  presidential member. It appears clear that the rights and wrongs of a dispute will not be investigated now. Once a stopage of work takes place the emphasis will be on penalising the unions and the bans clause will be put into awards so that penalties may be imposed. 
The 1969 amendment relating to the bans clause was to ensure that if a dispute occurred the merits of it were investigated before a fine was imposed. We on this side believe that the sanctions provisions should be repealed and I refer here, of course, to sections 109 and 111 which are the most offending sections in the Act. These sections have been responsible for creating more strikes than they have settled. Looking at this Bill one would think that the inflicting of penalties was an end in itself, but this ignores entirely the fact that the end is to settle industrial disputes  as  quickly as possible and not to extend them by inflicting severe penalties. What the Government is forgetting is that this is the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 'Conciliation' comes first in the Act and 'conciliation' appearing before 'arbitration' in clearly significant. In his second reading speech the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
Ft the parties can reach agreement they will be able to make a memorandum of their agreement and request the Conciliation Commissioner to certify that memorandum as an award, or, alternatively, request him to make an award or order giving effect to their agreement. The Conciliation Commissioner will be required to satisfy himself that the agreement reached by the parties is in the public interest. The provision, therefore, continues a like provision to that in the existing section 31 of the Act. 
The existing Act provides for conciliators and commissioners but it does not say that the whole of the process of conciliation should be done exclusively by them. Section 31 provides for the likelihood that the parties to an industrial dispute may themselves arrive at an agreement to govern their industrial relations. This section does not say anything about the way in which they should do it. I refer to the Qantas dispute some years ago which was settled by an outside mediator. As I said in the debate on the second reading of this Bill, the Minister will find that the unions will not register agreements if there is a danger of the agreements being disallowed by appeal or otherwise. 
Proposed new sections 34, 35 and emphasise public interest. These provisions are a carry over from existing section 31 (3.) which states, inter alia, that the arbitration authority may refuse to certify if it in of the opinion that 'it is not in the public interest that the agreement be certified'. Already today we have heard who is to define public interest. Time will not permit me to quote an interesting expression of opinion in a book called Better Employment Relations' by Foenander but possibly at a later stage I will get the opportunity. It states briefly that the authorities make no attempt to state broadly what they mean by 'public interest'. 
We are discussing proposed new section 28. 1 quote sub-section (2.) of it to refresh the minds of honourable members. It states: 
A Conciliation Commissioner shall refuse to certify a memorandum or make an award or order in accordance with this section if he is of the opinion that- 
it is not in the public interest that he should certify the memorandum or make the award or order. 
I draw attention to a point raised by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who challenged the Minister at the table to explain the conflict between that proposed new section and proposed new section 35 which states:  (1.) In this section unless the contrary intention appears - (2.) An appeal lies to the Commissioner against - (3.) An appeal does not lie under the last  prededing  sub-section unless, in the opinion of the Commission, the matter is of such importance that, in the public interest, an appeal should lie. 
I ask the Minister to reply to this point during the course of his remarks. I suggest to him that if he had replied earlier it might have shortened this debate considerably. I remember in the early days when I used to appear in court on behalf of the locomotive engine drivers' union. If it was wanted to stop unions from getting something, public interest did not come into it. The employers would say that it was 'an act of God'. For instance, if I asked for something for locomotive enginemen who were held up because of a washaway, the washaway was an act of God. If the char had caught alight and a truck or the train had been burned and delayed, the enginemen could not get their just entitlements because it was an act of God. The workers soon woke up to that and wanted to know whose side God was really on. Now we find there is reference mainly to public interest. I suggest to our friends opposite that public interest really depends on what government is in power and what judge or conciliation commissioner happens to be on the bench and what his leanings are. That is the extent to which public interest applies and I think that is what we have to consider on this occasion. 
When I spoke in this debate earlier I started to quote from a very learned gentleman who, in his book 'Better Employment Relations' - because of the shortage of time I had the opportunity to say only a few words about him - mentioned public interest. He said: 
Obviously the legislators were determined to have every regard for the public interest and, therefore, heed to the desirability of a coordination and consistency in respect of matters significant enough to affect the public interest. Accordingly they were of a mind to insist that the public interest should take precedence, where necessary, over the desire or need of a party for a prompt settlement of the dispute in which it or he is concerned. They make no attempt, however, to indicate even broadly what they mean or understand by 'public interest' or to supply criteria or guide material for its ascertainment. There is no denying that a definition of the expression 'public interest' is a task or requirement that involves considerable difficulty - a definition in absolute terms, it is safe to say, is impossible and even unwise, seeing that definition must always mean limitation. The term is relative and conditional conceptions of the public interest vary not only from person to person, but according to time and circumstance. Nevertheless the omission is calculated to introduce discrepancies in decisions that have to be taken before references and appeals can come before the Full Court for determination, and, on that account, to cause dissatisfaction. It is regrettable, therefore, that an objective standard of public interest was not in some measure at least made available. 
That is the sole basis upon which this argument stands. It depends really on the people who are defining public interest and, to repeat what I said earlier, it depends on what government is in office, whether it makes submissions concerning what it thinks it is right for the court of conciliation and arbitration to do and what the judges of the court determine shall be done. So, in the final analysis, it all gets down to politics. 1 suggest that some definition, at least in the broadest sense if not in the narrowest sense, should have been attempted in this Act. I challenge the Minister now to answer the question that was raised by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. This would, to a large extent, solve this matter. 
This clause seeks to amend section 39 of the Principal Act, which is a very important section, by adding the following new subsection: (2.) In proceedings before the Commission under section thirty-one, section thirty-four or section thirty-five of this Act, the Commission shall, in considering the public interest, have regard, in particular, to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings. 
This is an unwarranted extension of the Government's right to intervene in matters that it considers to be of public interest. It can only lead to the frustration of the processes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It will create delays and impose additional expense on employees and employee organisations. This Bill, in effect, envisages agreements and even minor awards being subjected to hearing by the full bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at the behest of this Government. This fact, coupled with the Government's policy of wage and salary freezing, and the unlimited right of manufacturers and retailers to increase prices, will place employees, particularly those represented by unions which adhere to the ordinary processes of conciliation and arbitration, in an impossible position. The proposed new sub-section is an extension of section 31 (3.) of the present Act which states, inter alia, that the arbitration authority may refuse to certify if it is of the opinion that it is not in the public interest that an agreement should be certified. I again refer to the question: Who is to define 'public interest'? One would consider that to keep people at work at reasonable rates of pay and conditions of employment would be in the public interest. 
I draw attention to what I said only a few minutes ago. Public interest has now become the important part of this Act. It is not easy to define what is the public interest.  As  I said before, at one time acts of God were used to stop workers from receiving their just rights. It used to be said that God was on the side of the biggest battalions; now he is on the side of those people who have the control and the authority in this Parliament and the judges of these courts. This is what the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  had to say in his second reading speech in regard to the question of the Commission having to pay regard to economic consequences: 
I have already emphasised the implications that decisions of the Commission can have for the national economy. Therefore, the Bill proposes an amendment of section 39 of the Act to ensure that, when the Commission is constituted to deal with appeals and references and with the reserved matters under the new section 31, it shall, in considering the public interest, have regard in particular to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award that it might make. 
I say that the Government simply is passing the buck. Section 39 of the principal Act is to be amended by adding a new sub-section (2.) which, inter alia, states:  . . the Commission shall, in considering the public interest, have regard, in particular, to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings. 
This is an unwarranted extension of the Government's right to intervene in matters that it considers to be of public interest. It will create delays and additional expense to the employee and employer organisations. The provision seeks to place the Commission in the position of giving undue weight to economic considerations, even when a just and reasonable case has been advanced for improvement in wages and salary standards or in working conditions. It places the Commission in the invidious position of having to assess the future of the economy, which is something that the Government could not do as was revealed by the last Budget and the shifting ground since then by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It will have a restrictive influence on the Commission in its efforts to come to a just and reasonable decision in accordance with the evidence before it. The Government is seeking to make the Commission assume responsibility for the overall economy - a responsibility that obviously is one that can be properly exercised only at government level. It is asking the Commission to do the Government's dirty work. 
The Commonwealth's appearance in the national wage case was not in the public interest, as the Government claims, but in its own political interests. That is why it appeared before the Commission. It tries to shift the responsibility for economic control and unpopular measures away from itself to the Commission. The function of controlling the economy is surely the duty of the Government, not of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The primary role of the Commission is to settle industrial disputes, not to manage the economy. The Government has shirked its responsibility for controlling the economy. In 1959 the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review advocated a widening of the economic powers of the Commonwealth, but here again the Government failed to act. The Government shirked its responsibility by putting to one side that review of constitutional reform. 
The Commission always states that it looks at the whole of the evidence placed before it on any matter on which it has to adjudicate and makes its decision in the light of that evidence. Without doubt, when the Government makes submissions to the Commission, as it did in the recent national wage case, the Commission gives weight to the economic evidence placed before it, but the degree of the weight depends upon the material presented as a whole, and I think undue weight was given to the submissions of the Commonwealth Government in this recent wage case. The Bill seeks to insert into the Act provisions to place the Commission in the position of giving undue weight to economic considerations, even when a just and reasonable case has been advanced for improvements in wages and salary standards or working conditions. Further, it places the Commission in the invidious position of having to assess the future of the economy, a most difficult task as the Government has found out. The last Budget and the results flowing from it show clearly that the Government, even with the expert advice that was available to it, was unable to read the future of the economy and this is amply demonstrated by the shifting ground of the Prime Minister and Treasurer in recent months. 
The major effect of the proposed change is that it will have a restrictive influence on the Commission in its efforts to come to a just and reasonable decision in accordance with the evidence placed before it. The Government is seeking to make the Commission take responsibility for the overall economy of this country, a responsibility that obviously can be properly carried out only by the Government if it has the guts to do it. 
Clause 19 deals with sections 45 and 46 of the Principal Act, and the important matter with which at deals is secret ballots. I pose the question: How will secret ballots on strikes limit the duration of strikes? If a ballot is carried by the members of the unions the strike is on and the ballot has the effect of legalising the strike. There is no doubt about that. The strike cannot be called off until another secret ballot is held, so its effect would be to continue the strike instead of limiting it. Of course, most strikes nowadays are of limited duration. They may last a few hours or they may last one or two days, but if a ballot has to be taken before a strike can be ended it means that it could go on for a long time indeed. The strike in fact would be taken out of the hands of union officials. 
I invite the attention of honourable members to some figures that I should like to quote. In 1929 a ballot on a strike was conducted under the control of the court and resulted in a vote of 5,318 against and 732 for the proposition that those affected be prepared to work under the existing award. On that occasion 9,000 ballot papers were burnt. The court can order a ballot under the existing law. That section has been in the Act for many years but has been used on only 3 occasions. This Bill does not leave any room for manoeuvre on the part of union officials. It could mean that once a ballot has been carried the full settlement of the original demand must be met or the strike goes on. A strike can blow up quite easilyand suddenly but once the first emotional step has been taken the heat goes off to some extent. Skilful negotiation by officials from both sides can limit a strike to a short duration. This Bill will harden the attitude to a strike once a vote has been carried. 
All room to manoeuvre will be lost and conciliation and compromise will be impossible. 
The strike weapon is not illegal in Great Britain, the United States of America or in Australia. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act does not prohibit strikes, though it did so until 1930 when the prohibition was removed. It is true, as we have heard tonight, that the Commission has power to include in its awards a ban on strikes. I emphasise to the Committee that we cannot expect a system of industrial arbitration to eliminate entirely strikes and other forms of direct action. Anyone who believes that is attributing to arbitration a function it cannot possibly fulfil. The laws of the land relating to the settlement of disputes are much more easily applied by the State to individuals than to powerful organisations such as trade unions. The State, in attempting to exercise compulsion over trade unions, is dealing with a powerful section of the community. A huge majority of people accept the fact that common law courts and criminal courts enforce a law with which they agree but in the field of industrial conflict their outlook is quite different. In this area there are no set principles of what is fair, reasonable or just. The arbitration system deals with questions on which the community as a whole is divided into 2 camps. Workers and employers have their own view of what is reasonable and what is just. 
There is no doubt - and all members on this side of the House would agree with me - about the value and importance of our conciliation and arbitration system but it is ridiculous to think that it can usher in a reign of peace in  industral  relations. Noone would deny the value and importance of international law but conflicts arise between countries and those differences are sometimes so severe that all observance of law is swept away. We are all aware of an instance of this happening at present. Our arbitration courts successfully settle hundreds of issues brought before them but they cannot succeed in every matter. The system would be strengthened if this Government were to accept the reality of the situation which is that in our community there are issues and conflicts so acute that no court could hope to find an acceptable solution. 
I want to draw attention to what happened in Britain, according to a recent review of this matter. The most direct overseas evidence unequivocally rejects such proposals for secret ballots on strikes. The British Royal Commission headed by Lord Donovan dealt specifically with this matter in these terms in its report which was handed down in 1968: 426. Compulsory Strike Ballots 
A number of witnesses have suggested to us that a secret ballot should be required before a strike can lawfully take place. This proposal is based on the belief that workers are likely to be less militant than their leaders and that, given the opportunity of such a ballot, they would often be likely to vote against strike action. 427. It is clear that the scope of any legislation to this end, if it were to be effective, would have to be confined to major official strikes. A law forbidding strike action before the holding of a secret ballot could not be enforced in the case of small-scale unofficial stoppages, which make up the overwhelming majority of the total number of strikes. 428. There is little justification in the available evidence for the view that workers are less likely to vote for strike action than their leaders; and findings from our workshop relations survey, already cited, confirms this. Experience in the USA has been that strike ballots are overwhelmingly likely to go in favour of strike action. This is also the experience of Canada, where strike ballots are compulsory in the provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. Two instances of ballots held in recent years in this country where the vote went against strike action are sometimes quoted in support of the case for compulsory secret ballots. One was held in connection with an industry-wide wage claim in engineering in 1962, and one in connection with action to secure the reinstatement of certain employees dismissed by the Ford Motor Company in 1963. But these ballots were held on the initiative of the unions concerned. They do not provide reliable evidence of what the outcome would be if ballots were held in quite different circumstances and under the compulsion of the law. 429. There are other objections to such ballots. Once a vote has been taken and has gone in favour of strike action, the resulting stoppage may delay a settlement by restricting union leaders' freedom of action. Moreover, how is the question on which the vote ls to be taken to be framed. If the vote is, for instance, about whether to accept the employers' latest offer, its result can be stultified if the employer subsequently makes a slightly improved offer. 430. We do not recommend that it should be compulsory by law, either generally or in certain denned cases, to hold a ballot of the employees affected upon the question whether strike action should be taken. We think it preferable that trade union leaders should bear, and be seen to bear, the responsibility of deciding when to call a strike and when to call it off. Occasions may of course arise when union leaders would themselves wish to hold such a ballot or are required to do so by their rules. The decision on such a matter should continue to rest with the unions. 
I suggest that those words used in the report of the British Royal Commission headed by Lord Donovan, handed down in 1968, are appropriate to the proposal of this Government for the question of strike action to be decided by secret ballot. I suggest to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  that the Government is making a mistake. Instead of reducing the period of a strike, when it unfortunately happens, the holding of a ballot will lengthen the period. Ballots will have to be taken to see whether the strikers will go back to work which will be a damned stupid situation. 
 Mr Chairman,  I want to speak to clause 51. T did not hear all the amendments that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  moved because it was not easy to hear. He will correct me if what I say is contrary to any of those amendments. The provisions contained in clause 51 introduce a new version of the twist. In the period between his statement of intent of December 1971 and the introduction of this amending Bill a couple of weeks ago this happened. This new version should be called the 'political twist'. The Democratic Labor Party played the, tune and the Minister danced to it. In. paragraph 95 of his statement of intent the Minister said: 
We will amend ... the Act ... to prevent unions from enforcing compulsory unionism. 
This did not suit the Democratic Labor Party which gets most of its trade union support from the Clerks Union, a union most difficult to organise and one which compulsory unionism strongly favours. So a quick shuffle backwards took place to the tune of the DLP. The proposition was dropped. At the same time, again in tune to the DLP, the Minister introduced something which previously he had strongly supported. He made it most difficult for union amalgamation to take place. This did not receive a mention in his statement of intent.  His  speech at the Central Industrial Secretariat dinner on 2nd March showed his attitude towards amalgamation. This was a dinner connected with the formal opening of the Central Industrial Secretariat for the purpose of amalgamating 2 employer bodies - the Employers Federation and the Chamber of Manufactures - to co-ordinate their industrial relations policies. He pointed out that the reason which had motivated them to form that body were no doubt those that the 3 metal trades unions would put forward in support of their plans to amalgamate. It is interesting to refer to some of the statements the Minister made at this dinner. He said: 
The legislation provides certain criteria to be fulfilled by the organisations which seek to deregister. This criteria includes the holding of ballots of members in accordance with the rules of the organisations and that the de-registration should be approved by a majority of those voting. 
Ballots were held by the Sheet Metal Workers and the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths and, indeed, although not required to do so by the legislation the AEU also held a ballot because its rules provided for this. 
The results of the ballots  showed  that almost 86 per cent of those voting in the AEU ballot favoured amalgamation, 73 per cent in the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and almost 70  per cent in the Sheet Metal Workers Union. The percentge of total membership of the union of those voting were 9 per cent AEU, 40 per cent Boilermakers and Blacksmiths and 36 per cent Sheet Metal Workers Union. 
Later in that speech he said: 
The normal voting percentages in 'officially conducted' ballots for office bearers ranges from 12 per cent to 75 per cent, and in the majority of such elections less than 50 per cent of eligible members have voted. In addition the percentage varies substantially as between different unions and from election to election in the same union. In the Australian Railways Union the figures vary from 20 per cent to 70 per cent. In the Federated Clerks Union 40 per cent to 75 per cent. In the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners 14 per cent to 22 per cent 
All these arguments that he advanced are against the arguments that have been put to him that he should do something about preventing the amalgamation of these 3 unions. He continued: 
The 50 per cent plus proposition implies that a substantial majority of those who do not register a vote can be said to be opposed to the proposal for amalgamation. This is a doubtful thesis. It is more likely that most of those who strongly oppose the proposal will vote and that the majority of those who fail to vote are not sufficiently moved against the proposition - they merely acquiesce. 
Even if it were accepted that of those not voting 50 per cent were in favour and 50 per cent against - a more reasonable assumption - then the amalgamation proposal could be said to have had the support of more than 50 per cent of total membership of each of the unions. 
It is also pertinent to note that in Federal Parliamentary elections it is not required that a candidate must obtain the support of 50 per cent plus of all voters on the voting roll to be elected. 
He went on to say: 
The effective result of introducing a 50 per cent plus voting pattern would be to stop a number of amalgamations, including, of course, amalgamations of employer bodies. 
The Minister wiped off the point that the amalgamation will provide a large communist dominated organisation by saying that there was a minority of communists on the federal council of the amalgamated union. At page 7 of his speech on 2nd March he went on to say: 
For instance, there are some 300 unions in Australia. Most of them are very small. It could facilitate the functioning of the arbitration system and relations generally between employers and unions if this number of unions decreases. I know of situations in which employers have sat across the table with so fewer than 15 unions in relation to one issue. Government departments have bad this experience. 
Despite that, the Minister went on to introduce this legislation. Having said all that, he bent the knee-to and kissed the hand, if not worse, of the Democratic Labor Party before doing another shuffle. Proposed section 158n provides that, in order to bring about an amalgamation, at least SO per cent of those on the role of voters must vote and more than 50 per cent of those who vote must vote in favour of an amalgamation. In his speech of 2nd March the Minister pointed out the difficulties of getting a high percentage of members voting. I have already quoted what he said on page -5 of his speech in regard to that matter. At the behest of the Democratic Labor Party he has made it much harder for unions to amalgamate, in spite of what he had to say about the representatives of 15 small unions having been present at a conference in relation to one issue and his statement that that had occurred on many occasions in regard to his Department itself. 
The Minister has admitted that it would be better if there were fewer smaller unions and the smaller unions were to amalgamate. It would be better in regard to industrial relations and it would be better in the interests of the unions themselves because there are too many small unions at the present time. There is a tremendous waste of resources as a result of that. Each union has to have a secretary, typing facilities and an office. The administrative costs are excessive. If unions could amalgamate and there was a bigger body of unions of similar types they could have specialists, they could have an officer dealing with industrial matters and they could have a man dealing with compensation, apart from the administration of those matters which are very necessary. I believe that this amendment unduly interferes with the freedom of trade unions. It was prepared without any consultation with the trade unions. It is a sad case of the Democratic Labor Party tail wagging the Liberal Party dog. 
Wednesday, 17 May 1972 
Despite this Government's denials Australia is still faced with a large pool of unemployment deliberately increased by this Government as has been admitted by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his statement to the consumer price index of 20th January 1972. He said clearly that the Government had deliberately increased the pool of unemployment as a measure against inflation. I have the statement in front of me. In it the Treasurer said: 
Twelve months ago many of those who are now demanding 'stimulation' of  the  economy were equally strongly demanding vigorous action by the Government to deal with the inflationary situation. It should also be kept clearly in mind that the situation they were then concerned with was itself the product, in considerable part, of that very tight labour market the easing of which is now current. If the present position in regard to inflation of cost and prices is grim, it would have been much worse in the absence of the action by the Government which its critics now seek to have reversed. 
No government desires to see unemployment increasing. Those who, like myself, have to play their part in the task of determining the Government's economic policy are well aware of all the points that could be made in this respect, and also of the highly emotional language to which the subject lends itself. Yet there is another side to the matter, and it needs stating. 
For the first time for many years, labour turnover is falling off in many areas; absenteeism and the rapid changing of jobs, with all the waste and costs to the economy they involve, are declining. Employers seeking labour can now more readily obtain it. 
This is a clear indication that the Government deliberately caused this pool of unemployment. This was despite former denials that unemployment was being deliberately created. This policy was the cause of the fall in the purchase of cars which affected the motor industry and is now being felt in the recent announcement from Perth. 
The decision of General Motors-Holden's Ltd to close its Mosman Park factory at the end of August has come as a great shock to the Government of Western Australia. The managing director of GMH,  Mr Gibbs  has said that all vehicles for the Western Australian market would be produced at the company's plants in South Australia and Victoria. Even so, this means that fewer workers will be employed. The excuse offered is that the facilities at Mosman Park no longer are adequate. But the economic financial squeeze is the real answer. If the facilities no loner are adeouate whose fault is that? 
The company should have used some of its immense profits that were being channelled to overseas investors to see that its facilities were adequate. The company allowed its plant to run down and then used this as an excuse to close its plant at Mosman Park. Where is the loyalty to the State and the country that has given this company so much assistance in the past? Its loyalty lies only with its shareholders, and the overseas ones at that. 
This closure is being carried out after assurances by GMH local representatives about 5 weeks ago to representatives of the Western Australian Government that there was no intention of closing the works. The  Deputy  Premier had repeated those assurances in the Western Australian Parliament. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  said that it was a commercial decision. Actually it was not a commercial decision at ali. It was a decision that has been made as a result of the economic policies of this Government. The motor industry has been in the doldrums ever since this Government introduced its illfated Budget in August last year. It hit all the States but now Western Australia and the motor industry are being hit harder than formerly, with 250 dismissals. 
The McMahon Government has the unenviable reputation of setting out with the deliberate intention of creating a pool of unemployment. The Treasurer indicated that this was so in the August Budget if one reads his Budget Speech carefully. The policy has gravely affected the job opportunities of young people leaving school, so much so that many of them are returning to school rather than facing unemployment. A bad feature of our unemployment is that one in every 3 people out of work is under age 21 - just over 33,000 in all. I draw attention to a very important statement made in a 'Graduate Careers Guide of Australia' for March 1972. The statement reads: 
For some time the Council has been concerned that within industry, commerce, government and universities and colleges of advanced education there is insufficient understanding of the factors which govern the effective use of graduates. Apart from this very little co-ordinated information for Australia as a whole is available and there has been no Australia-wide investigation or even discussion of the relationship between the output and use of graduates. 
The Council fears that the recent emergence of difficulties of various kinds in the placement of graduates creates an undesirable uncertainty in the minds of students and recent graduates as to the value of tertiary education and its relevance to satisfactory employment. 
This gives cause for concern. The Commonwealth Government is not treating the future employment needs of our young people seriously enough. Actual unemployment at the end of April was 93,000-odd while the number of job vacancies was 31,000-odd. The ratio was 3 people out of work for every vacant job. The number of people receiving unemployment benefits was over 36,000. The highest level of unemployment was in the area of the white collar worker where 26,750 were out of work; and 25,600 semi-skilled tradesmen were unemployed. This is a serious situation. Of course, as a result of last August's Budget, the Government realised it had made a mistake and created a rod for its own back. There was such an outcry from all sections of the community that it had second thoughts, and tried to rectify some of the wrongs that it had done, not because it did not want unemployment, but because it was concerned with the effect unemployment would have on the Government's electoral prospects. 
The Government has not forgotten 1961 when it went within one seat of losing government, lt realises now that it is faced with the danger of losing government, which it surely will do. The skies are black with the chickens coming home to roost. Unemployment figures have risen everywhere in Australia compared with last year's figures. Unemployment has increased in the building industry, which is a good barometer of the state of the economy. In Western Australia the building industry has been hit badly by unemployment. Without quoting in full, I draw attention to a headline in a Western Australian newspaper of 14th March 1972 which reads: 'W. A. Jobless at new peak'. The article gives the number of workers in the building industry now unemployed. In case the Government tries to blame the Western Australian Labor Government I shall quote from the West Australian' of 19th April 1972 which, of course, would be inclined to favour this Government rather than the Western Australian Labor Government, The editorial is headed: 'Too few jobs', and it reads: 
Unemployment is highest in Western Australia. The Premier,  Mr Tonkin,  is right in blaming external factors. This State, more than any other.  looks to a strengthening in the overseas demand for metals and wool, and to new investment opportunities for economic recovery. It has  a  strong case on these grounds for special help from Canberra to increase job vacancies till international trade is again flowing more freely. There are precedents for special Federal assistance to  a  particular State in this field.' 
I draw the attention of the Government to that very important statement and hope that it will take notice. But I am not putting a case for Western Australia alone. I refer to Australia as a whole. This is a national issue. It is Australia-wide, but some areas have been hit worse than others. I cite an article in the 'Australian' of 30th May 1972. It reads: 
Black outlook on jobs. Average figures 100,000 without work, researchers warn. An average of more than 100,000 Australians will be unemployed in 1972-73 despite an expected increase in business confidence and economic activity. This warning came yesterday from the University of Melbourne Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research, only 2 weeks after the Federal Government announced a slight drop in the number of jobless in April to 99,433. 
The article continues: 
The Institute criticised the Government on the grounds that although it had brought in financial measures to stimulate the economy, it had failed to introduce an incomes and prices policy to combat inflation. 
Inflation continues at an increasing rate, paring the apparent gains of some sections of the workforce, pruning the modest gains of others and lopping the incomes of pensioners and fixed income recipients,' said the report. 
But this Government does nothing about controlling prices, it wants only to control wages of those on the lower rungs of the ladder. In many areas there are 4 applicants for each job available. In some areas there are 5 applicants unemployed for each vacancy. The hard fact is that unemployment has continued to increase month by month in recent months and year by year in recent years. Unemployment has increased by 46 per cent over the comparable figures of last year. 
We often hear about the number of man hours lost as a result of strikes, but the facts are that the number of man hours lost through unemployment is greater on a production basis than the man hours lost through strikes. It is about 8 times greater. The building industry is always a good barometer of the state of the economy. The economy continues to slow down and many workers have lost their jobs. Overall unemployment has been brought about by the August Budget of the McMahon Government and it is a tragic thing that without any thought to the welfare of the people unemployment should be created like it has been. An important factor that should- 
We agreed to take these amendments as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has suggested. There are 2 amendments made by the Senate on which we want a vote; they are Nos 1 and 7. However, at the moment the Committee is dealing with the other amendments, and I want to pass some comments on them although we do not intend to vote against them. I will explain the reasons. Let us take clause 12, for example, which is amendment No. 3. Of course, the Labor Party opposed the clause in this place as it proposed giving commissioners an increase in salary to $16,250. It was opposed also in the Senate, and the result is that the salaries of the commissioners remain as they are at present, and the Government has now accepted that situation. Even some Government Senators voted against increasing the salaries of the commissioners while the Government was keeping down the salaries of others. Of course, the Government has got its desserts. 
The commissioners are already in receipt of a salary of $11,800, and it was intended to give them an increase of $4,450 per annum, and to make the payment retrospective to 4th November 1971. These are the men who increased the minimum wage by $4.70 only a few weeks ago and gave tradesmen a miserable increase of $2 a week. The Government tries to adopt a double standard, as is clear when one looks at the legislation now before the House. It is willing, in fact, to grease the fatted pig. The Government has 2 standards. It goes before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and argues that in the interests of the national economy the wages of the workers must be kept down, and it uses all the forces of the machinery at its command to do this. Then it proposes to give these large increases to persons on very high incomes. 
I point out to honourable members, as I have done before, that if the workers want their wrongs righted, they must produce witnesses, must call evidence, and must prove conclusively that their claim is justified. Even then the Commission can refuse to grant those just claims if to do so would not be in the public interest, in accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the public interest. Employers, on the other hand, can raise prices at their own whim and fancy. They do this in the secrecy of the board room without any thought for the public interest or without calling witnesses to give evidence. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service lay the blame for increased prices on the workers and on their demands for increased wages to meet increased costs of living. Yet they will do nothing about prices. 'Public interest' has been expanded in this amending Bill to take into account the state of the economy. 
I ask the Government: Did it take into account the state of the economy when Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd recently increased steel prices by  5i  per cent and in some instances, particularly in regard to building materials, caused price rises of between 9 per cent and 10 per cent? No charge is ever made by the Government that such companies are taking too much of the national income, thereby endangering the economy and causing living costs to rise. Is it any wonder that the workers take direct action and threaten to withdraw from arbitration and to rely on negotiation to have their wrongs righted? The Government is even trying to interfere at the present stage in the waterside workers case. The worker has never been in a worse position financially than he is in today. At one time the worker's wage was adequate to meet the ordinary financial needs of the home. Today no worker and his family can live on the base wage. Consequently, he has to have 2 jobs or work overtime or his wife must work in order to make ends meet. That is the situation in which families find themselves these days. 
The Government supports an increase of $4,250 a year, or about $84 a week, retrospective to November 1971 for certain statutory office holders while at the same time it adds sections to the Act to lessen the workers' chances of getting increases which may be approved by the employers. I instance again the intervention that is presently taking place in the watersiders' case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Government wants to stop employers and employees reaching amicable agreements on wage claims. The Opposition opposes strongly any suggestion of a wage freeze. It believes in the 2 main principles of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which are to promote goodwill in industry and to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes. Unfortunately, this Government seems to have lost track of those principles. The amendments since the Act was initiated in 1904, whether they were entirely satisfactory or not, had a set purpose - to try to improve those principles. But this Government seems to have got away from that. 
This amending Bill works in the other direction. It is purely political. No attempt is made to improve the Act in line with the thinking of the trade union movement and the more advanced employers. In fact, its aim is to create dissension in the community for political purposes. Before the Minister for Labour and National Service brought down the December 1971 statement of intent, meetings had taken place between the employers and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to investigate ways in which the Act might work more smoothly. A lot of progress was made in 1971 and a satisfactory stage of agreement had been reached between the parties. It was at this stage that the Minister stepped in and refused to accept the understanding that had been arrived at. What had been achieved by the unions and the employers was sabotaged by this Government. All that the Minister would do, following on earlier successful meetings, was to hear views, but he would not enter into worthwhile discussions. After hearing the views he said he would consider them. The next move was the statement of intent. The attitude of the unions was not even considered when that took place. Then this Bill was introduced. 
The other clause on which I wish to comment briefly is clause 41. I draw attention to the fact that this deals with the exercise of the court's jurisdiction. The Australian Labor Party moved an amendment in the Senate to the Government's 
Bill. I do not want to quote it all but I think that some extract from it would be worth while. The amendment is headed Exercise of Court's jurisdiction'. It was moved to improve the workings of the Act as far as we could see it. A further amendment proposed by the Senate was accepted by the Australian Labor Party Opposition in the Senate, and consequently the amendment to which I have referred was withdrawn. The Opposition does not oppose the amendment as it now appears. I will leave it at that. I have expressed my views on these matters. The Opposition does not intend to call a vote on the matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - The question is: 
That amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Mr LYNCH (Flinders - Minister for Labour and National Service) - I move: 
That amendments Nos 1 and 7 be agreed to. 
The Opposition intends to oppose both the amendments to which the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has referred. I draw attention to the fact that when this Bill was before the House and the matter was being debated clause 2 read: 
(1.) The following provisions of this Act shall come into operation on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent - 
Then it numbered all the clauses, including the clauses which are now in dispute. When this matter was before the Senate the following sub-clauses were proposed to be inserted: (2.) Sections 41, 49 and 53 of this Act shall come into operation on such respective dates as are fixed by Proclamation. (2a.) Sections 51 and 68 of this Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on the twenty-sixth day of May, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two. 
The amendment from the Senate backdates the operation of 2 vital sections of this Act to 26th May 1972. That is why we are opposing it. Let me explain the reasons why. 
These are the sections dealing with amalgamation of organisations. It will be remembered that when the debate was taking place here in Committee I raised the question under clause 68 as to whether it affected the amalgamation of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society, the Sheet Metalworkers Union and the Amalgamated Engineering Union which was in process at the time. These unions had been working on this amalgamation for a period of about 3i years and had almost completed the necessary procedures. The House will remember that the Minister was very reluctant to answer the question I put to him. He said that section 68 was a mere tidying up. It was clear that the Minister was hiding something - in my opinion anyhow and, I think, in the opinion of some other members of the House - and that the aim was to prevent if possible the amalgamation taking place. Finally, after repeated questioning he admitted that the unions could be disadvantaged depending on the decision of the court on the question of deregistration of some of the unions which was before it at that time. 
So the Government was in a very awkward situation as far as the amalgamation of these unions was concerned. It is clear that the Government, under pressure from the Democratic Labor Party, was trying to make amalgamation more difficult. The Minister, somewhat reluctantly, was dancing to the tune of the DLP. My accusation can be proved. Honourable members will recall his statement of intent of December 1971. At paragraph 95 of that statement of intent he said: 
We will amend the Act to prevent unions from enforcing compulsory unionism. 
This did not stop the Democratic Labor Party, because most of its support in the industrial movement comes from the Federated Clerks Union, which would be a difficult union to organise without compulsory unionsim. I am not casting any reflection on that union. It has every right to try to keep compulsory unionism and we are pleased that it has been successful. From then on the Minister forgot all about the matter and let it drop. So his intention to abolish compulsory unionsim disappeared entirely. 
However, something that was not mentioned in his statement of intent was included in this Bill. That was a proviso to make amalgamation of the unions more difficult. His speech at the Central Industrial Secretariat dinner on 2nd March showed his earlier attitude towards amalgamation. This was a dinner connected with the formal opening of the Central Industrial Secretariat for the purpose of amalgamating 2 employer bodies - the Employers Federation and the Chamber of Manufactures - to co-ordinate their industrial relations policies. At that dinner the Minister said: 
Basically, the philosophy of the current and previous Governments in relation to organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is that they are voluntary organisations and the Government should not interfere in their affairs unless it can be demonstrated that there are or are likely, to be dishonest practices which would prejudice the rights of members or groups of members. 
He also ridiculed the idea that 50 per cent plus of the total membership should vote. He pointed out to this body that the reasons which prompted them to form their body were no doubt those that motivated the metal trades unions to amalgamate. He pointed out the advantages of amalgamation. In fact, his whole speech showed that he supported the amalgamation of smaller unions into bigger unions. Then at the behest of the DLP he brought in these amendments designed to make amalgamation much harder. However, the progress of the metal trades unions was too great and despite the efforts of the DLP their amalgamation has become an accomplished fact. 
However, the backdating of the commencement of this proposed new section to 26th May means that other unions which have made considerable progress towards amalgamation will have to start all over again. I do not know the names of all the unions which are in the process of arranging amalgamation, but there are several. They include the Ironworkers and Chemical Workers Union and the Theatre Managers Association is another. Also, the Bacon Employees Union in Queensland is seeking amalgamation with the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union; I know that negotiations in this case have been going on for about 2 years. The amalgamation of the metal trades unions as the Minister well knows took about 3 years to complete. There are several other unions which under this legislation will have to start their negotiations all over again. 
I would like to quote from an article entitled: 'Union Law Backdated'. It reads: 
The  Ironworers'  national secretary  (Mr Short)  yesterday condemned the retrospectivity issue and sent a telegram asking the Federal Government to defer the proposed legislation. 
Late tonight the Senate was still debating additional clauses of the Bill. . . . 
This shows that the union was opposed to this measure because it interfered with the steps it had already taken. If the Bill had been returned in the form in which it left this chamber - that is, to come into effect on a date to be proclaimed - unions would have been able to commence and complete the amalgamation proceedings. If the proclamation had been held up for a period they would not have been disadvantaged. 
These amendments seem to be aimed at the amalgamation of the ironworkers, chemical workers and the others I have mentioned. Why should this control be restricted to the unions? If this is to be the new way of life why does it not apply to employer bodies and companies which amalgamate? The Government should be making amalgamation easier instead of more difficult. The Minister, if he were free to do so, would admit this. For example, amalgamation could prevent all of the demarcation disputes that occur.  Mr Morgan  of the Metal Trades Employers Federation saw the wisdom of this. He supported the unions being free to amalgamate. Instead this Government is placing obstacles in the way of amalgamation. How different it is when commercial interests are concerned. It has taken the Government over 10 years to do something about the Trade Practices Act which is not yet law. The Bill has not even been introduced despite many promises. But when it comes to interfering with the unions legislation becomes a matter of extreme emergency. This Government will go down in history as being biased towards trade unions and not interested in industrial relations except to stir up strife for political purposes. 
So much for that part of the legislation. There is just one other point to which I would like to refer. We oppose the amendment to clause 51 to which the Minister has referred. I refer here to amendment No. 7 in the schedule of amendments made by the Senate. I do not want to go into the details of it. What we wanted in our amendment, which I do not have time to quote, was that in circumstances when a union which had membership of less than 5 per cent of the membership of the host union was being absorbed, the host union would not be required to have a ballot. 
This was a reasonable provision particularly if we look at paragraph (a) of our amendment which states: 
. which special circumstances the Industrial Registrar could refuse the exemption. 
The Government's amendment now before the House was obviously moved by the DLP with the connivance of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  who no doubt assisted with its drafting. It is indefinite and leaves ground for a lot of litigation. Our amendment was a definite proposition, was reasonably clear and in fact left it to the Industrial Registrar, to decide whether he did not want to grant the amalgamation, even though the question that was at issue was only whether the union seeking amalgamation had a membership equal to only 5 per cent of the host union's, the host union did not have to take a ballot. I think that was a reasonable amendment. I regret that the Government did not see its way clear to do something about it. The Opposition intends to vote against this amendment as well as the other one which I have mentioned. 
I rise to support the motion for the discussion on this matter of urgency. I was rather surprised to hear the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who is the Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and Industry, say that in effect we have to relate our unemployment to the figures in other countries. I know that some other countries have higher unemployment than we have. I was at Jamaica at a conference once and I know that there the unemployment rate was IS per cent. But surely the honourable member for Corangamite does not want to relate our unemployment to that of such a country. I am quite certain that this Government would like to see a bigger pool of unemployment but it will not seek it simply because it is frightened about election prospects. This Government can make all the excuses it likes but it is clear that we are faced with the most serious unemployment situation that this country has had for a decade. We of the Opposition prefer to compare like with like and see what has happened in past years in this country. Unemployment is running at a rate well in excess of the 112,000 unemployed revealed in the July figures presented by the Department of Labour and National Service. It is to the eternal discredit of this Government that the unemployment pool was created deliberately by the McMahon Government in order, it was said, to dampen down inflation. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  admitted this in his statement on the consumer price index on 20th January 1972. He clearly admitted that the Government had deliberately increased the pool of unemployment as a measure against inflation. He said: 
Twelve months ago many of those who are now demanding major 'stimulation' of the economy were equally strongly demanding vigorous action by the Government to deal with the inflationary situation. It should also be kept clearly in mind that the situation they were then concerned with was itself the product, in considerable part, of that very tight labour market the easing of which is now apparent. If the present position in regard to inflation of cost and prices is grim, it would have been much worse in the absence of the action by the Government which its critics now seek to have reversed. 
No Government desires to see unemployment increasing. Those who, like myself, have to play their part in the task of determining the Government's economic policy are well aware of all the points that could be made in this respect, and also of the highly emotional language to which the subject lends itself. Yet there is another side to the matter, and it needs stating. 
For the first time for some years, labour turnover is falling off in many areas; absenteeism and the rapid changing of jobs, with all the waste and costs to the economy they involve, are declining. Employers seeking labour can now more readily obtain it. 
If that is not an admission that unemployment was deliberately created, I have yet to hear one. This statement was made despite former denials that unemployment was deliberately created. It was this policy that was responsible for the fall off in the purchase of motor vehicles, and this directly caused the closing down of General Motors-Holden's plant at Mosman Park in Western Australia. The excuse was that the facilities at that plant were no longer adequate but the real reason was the credit squeeze that took place. Unfortunately Western Australia has been particularly badly hit by unemployment. It was a doublebarrelled affair. Firstly there was the economic squeeze of this Government and secondly the downturn in the international demand for metals. 
There is another factor which is not generally known. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  knows about this. Workers are still coming from other States to Western Australia, particularly to the north, expecting to find work. This is adding to the high unemployment in that State. The downturn in Western Australia commenced when the former LiberalCountry Party Government was in office in the State, and this was admitted by the Minister for Labour and National Service in answer to a question only yesterday when he said: 
. Western Australian unemployment figures have been running at a much higher level than the national average for a long period of time. The honourable gentleman concurs; I see him nodding  his  head. The facts are that in the labour market in that State a deterioration has taken place during the course of the past 2 to 3 years. 
During the last 2 or 3 years, of course,  a  Liberal Government has been in office in that State, and a Labor administration has been in office only since February 1971, for about 18 months. The Minister for Labour and National Service went on and admitted that certain factors had been responsible. He said: 
Firstly, there has been a turndown in the number of major developmental projects and this  has reduced unemployment  in,  the area from 10,000 to - as I recall it- approximately 3,000. This has had an effect on associated manufacturing, supplier and engineering firms. Secondly, there has been a turndown in mineral activity because of trading conditions- 
In the final paragraph of his answer he mentioned the special problems in Western Australia but said that there would be no additional financial assistance for unemployment in the metropolitan area of Perth. That is to the discredit of this Government. The figures show that there are 9,652 persons unemployed in the metropolitan area as compared with 3,194 in the non-metropolitan areas. Does that not justify some financial assistance for metropolitan unemployment as well as for unemployment in rural areas? The Government has given some assistance in rural areas but refuses to assist financially to relieve metropolitan unemployment. The July unemployment figures for Australia as a whole are the highest July figures for 10 years. They reveal that 112,290 persons or 2 per cent of the work force are unemployed. I quote those figures from information supplied by the Minister. 
In the past year the number of unemployed has increased by nearly 42,000. Over the same period the number of job vacancies has declined. According to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  there are about 8 people out of work for every vacancy. In 12 months those receiving unemployment benefit have increased from 19,453 to 42,979 to the end of July of this year. That is a tragic situation. Referring to Western Australia, I draw attention to what appeared in the West Australian' newspaper in regard to this matter. The editorial of 22nd June this year stated: 
Western Australia  has  a strong case for seeking additional loan-fund assistance, apart from help with its budgeting problems. Its May unemployment figure is the highest percentage of any State. External factors - particularly in the fall in the international demand for metals - are largely to blame for Western Australia's position, which will not be remedied by Canberra's grants for rural unemployment relief. 
There are ample precedents for Federal assistance to a State in special circumstances. 
Unemployment in Western Australia is referred to again in another editorial on 22nd July which states: 
Other States have industrial diversification that enables them to ride the bumps better than West ern Australia, where expansion and stability depend so much on mining. Canberra's rural help programme is the wrong medicine for this State, where more than 80 per cent of the registered unemployed are in the metropolitan area. 
Yet this Government refuses to give any special assistance in this field. A bad feature of our unemployment - I am speaking now of Australia as a whole - is that almost one in every 3 people out of work is under the age of 21 years. Just over 32,000 peple fall into this category. 1 have here a copy of the 'Graduate Careers Guide for Australia' of March 1972. Referring to this matter, it states: 
For some time the Council has been concerned that within industry, commerce, Government, the universities and colleges of advanced education there is insufficient understanding of the factors which govern the effective use of graduates. Apart from this very little co-ordinated information for Australia as a whole is available and there has been no Australia-wide investigation or even discussion of the relationship between the output and use of graduates. 
It finishes up questioning the value of tertiary education and its relevance to satisfactory employment. This gives cause for concern. The Commonwealth Government is not treating the future employment needs of our young people seriously enough. The Minister for Labour and National Service has been condemned out of his own mouth. He is accused by the Australian' of 15th August of deliberately using smoke screens to hide the situation of the jobless. So unemployment goes up year by year. Each year is worse than the year before and each month worse than the previous month. The Government will go out of office with the unenviable record of being the first government for a decade to have deliberately created unemployment. 
The Government now realises that it has made a rod for its own back. The outcry from all sections of the community has caused it to have second thoughts, not because the Government does not want unemployment but because it is concerned with the effect unemployment will have on its electoral prospects. That is why the handouts were given in the Budget last night. The Government has not forgotten 1961, when it came within one seat of losing government. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Army and refer to correspondence about the area of land occupied by the Army at Swanbourne. Does the Minister agree that the situation of this camp and rifle range means a long detour for motorists travelling along the coast road? Does he not agree that this camp and land could be just as usefully situated in another area thus making the land available for residential and public purposes? Has he considered this proposition? If it is not proposed to shift the camp at this stage, will he agree to allowing the coast road to pass through the camp? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  who just resumed his seat, commenced his speech with an unwarranted and dislocated attack upon the policies of the Australian Labor Party. From what he said, it is quite obvious that he gets his facts from his imagination. It is clear that he did not listen to what the Leader of the Opposition had to say on Tuesday night, to the speech presented by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  or to the speeches of those members of the Opposition who have followed them. 
However, I want to talk about the Budget. This Government should be described as the stop-go-stop Government. Last year the brakes were jammed on hard. This Budget releases them. But how long will it be before they are jammed on again? As the Leader of the Opposition said, there is not a word from the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  acknowledging the mistakes of the last Budget. There is not a word to imply that any of the economic setbacks and human hardship created then were of the Government's own making. Nothing is said about the fact that the last Budget was responsible for a loss of $800m in production. The fact that the Government was responsible for creating a pool of unemployment in excess of 100,000 lies to its eternal discredit. 
This being an election year, the Government hopes that a spending spree will cause the people to forget what occurred 12 months ago and the repercussions that flowed from that. The people are not fools. They will not forget the misery and suffering created by the Budget strategy of last August. The handouts in this Budget, of course, are accepted with a grain of salt because the people are aware, as the Leader of the Opposition said, that what has been given can so easily be taken away if this Government remains in office. The increase in pensions does not even restore their value. The age and invalid pension under the Chifley Labor Government was 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. It was 19.6 per cent of average weekly earnings last year. Under this Budget, if average weekly earnings rise by 9 per cent as is anticipated in the Budget, the pension will be 19.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. A large number of people have been - and are still being - shabbily treated. For the life of me, I cannot see why a civilian widow should be treated any differently from a war widow. It is true that a war widow has lost her husband as a result of his war service. However, there are many widows receiving a civilian widow's pension whose husbands served in war but who could not prove that his death was due to war service. The onus is always thrown on the widow to do this. She does not get the benefit of any doubt. 
In my view all widows should be treated similarly. No means test is placed on a war widow's pension. I have seen some pitiful cases of civilian widows who have taken a job to try to earn something more to give their children a better education. Because they have earned a little more than the allowable income, their pensions have been reduced. They then have to earn more and suffer a further reduction of pension or reduce the standard of living of their families while the amount that they have been overpaid is repaid to the Department. The latest increase in this Budget gives war widows and civilian A class widows the same pension. But, while there was an increase in the mother's allowance for the war widow, that increase was not given to the civilian widow. 
This is the situation: Under this Budget a civilian widow and a war widow both get the same pension of $20 a week. The mother's allowance for a civilian widow is $4, while the mother's allowance for a war widow is $8.50. The child allowance for a civilian widow is $4.50 and for a war widow it is $7.35. This means that the civilian widow receives, including the allowance for one child, a total of $28.50 and the war widow receives a total of $35.85. It costs as much to feed, clothe and educate the children of civilian widows as it does in the case of the children of war widows. On top of that, of course, the war widow is not subject to a means test. I agree that she should not be subject to a means test. But I believe that all these conditions should apply equally to the civilian widow. 
Consider the position of a B class widow - that is, a widow aged between 50 and 60 years with no children. Under this Budget she will receive $17.25 a week. However, a war widow in similar circumstances receives $20. The age pension for a married couple is to be $17.25 each on the ground that 2 can live more cheaply than one. How does this argument apply to a B class widow? The pension of $17.25 paid to a B class widow is about $6 below the recognised poverty line. How can the payment of that sort of pension be justified? The Government claims that it has taken another step in the direction of abolishing the means test. But, in fact, has it? The allowable income has been increased so that a single pensioner can earn as much as he gets in pension; that is, he can earn $20 a week, provided he has not more than S419 in the hank. In 1954 he was in exactly the same position. He could then earn the same amount as his pension. So we are back to the 1954 standard as far as the relationship between the pension and the allowable income is concerned. 
Let us take the case of married pensioners. In 1954 they each received the same pension as a single pensioner - this is not the case today - and they were allowed to earn the same amount in allowable income as twice the single pension. On today's figures they could earn $40 a week provided that they had no more than $839 in the bank. This Government was responsible for reducing the married pension as compared to the single pension. Married pensioners are worse off now comparatively than they were in 1954. Under this Budget they can still earn as much as the pension but the pension for the single pensioner has been reduced. Therefore the socalled easing of the means test has not been improved since 1954. As a matter of fact, it has been reduced to some extent in the case of a married pensioner couple. The most that can be said is that both the single and married pensioner can earn as much in allowable income as they get in pensions. As I have said, they could do this in 1954. 
The increase in age, invalid and widows' pensions is not near enough. The Australian Labor Party believes that the pension should be set as a percentage of average weekly earnings. We believe that at present the standard rate should be $24.50 a week and should be adjusted automatically in accordance with movements in average weekly earnings. If there is not some automatic adjustment it means that increases will be swallowed up by inflation. The present increases will disappear in increased prices before very long if something such as this is not done. Unemployment benefits remain at $17 for a male plus $8 if he has a wife and $4.50 if he has a child. A married man with 2 children would receive $13 below the recognised poverty line under this arrangement. One would have thought, having in mind that this Government has the unenviable reputation of having created the largest unemployment pool for more than a dec ade, that there would have been more sympathy for the victims of this vicious policy. 
We have an unemployment pool of over 112,000. For every job vacancy there are about 8 people out of work. Close to 43,000 people are on unemployment benefit and the Government keeps them below the recognised poverty line. Onethird of those who are unemployed - over 32,000 people - are under the age of 21 years. Yet this Government gives a lousy $7.50 a week to those between the age of 16 and 18 years and $11 a week to those between the age of 18 and 21. The only concession which this Government has made for the victims of the August 1971 Budget was to provide $200,000 for their fares while seeking employment. The amount of $200,000 for 112,000 people unemployed will mean less than $2 each per annum. What a callous disregard the Government displays for those for whom there is little hope in the future under its administration and its policy of keeping a percentage of the work force unemployed. 
As I have pointed out in recent debates, Western Australia has a special case for financial assistance in its unemployment crisis. In that State there are over 9,000 unemployed in the metropolitan area and less than 3,000 in the rural areas, yet the funds which the Commonwealth has made available for projects to relieve unemployment have attached to them a tag stating that the money must be spent in the rural areas. So no additional financial assistance is available to get our people back to work in the metropolitan area. Requests by the Premier of Western Australia to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for special financial assistance were for a long time ignored and then finally refused. The Federal Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in reply to a question has admitted that the problem arose during the Brand-Court government's term of office. During the last year of office of that Liberal Government the number of unemployed in Western Australia increased by over 2,000. So it is useless to blame the Labor Government in Western Australia, which has been in office for only 18 months. Various factors have been responsible for increased unemployment in Western Australia. The McMahon Budget strategy of August 1971 contributed to it but in addition we had the downturn in the mineral industry due to international demand falling rapidly. Western Australia's work force was built up for the actual production of minerals, but once construction work was completed there was a fall-off in demand for minerals and there was nowhere to absorb the work which had been released. We did not have the secondary industries to absorb those workers, many of whom had come from other States to Western Australia to work in the mining industry and building industry. This is why Western Australia needs added financial assistance. The only source for this assistance is the Federal Government, but because of narrow political prejudice it is denying the State of Western Australia this assistance. 
In my remarks on social services I interpolated to emphasise those points. Let us have another look at social services. Let us have a look at one or two of our shrunken social service benefits. Maternity allowances have remained unaltered for 29 years although costs associated with the birth of a child have risen 500 per cent. At one time the maternity allowance paid for all the costs of a confinement. The existing rate of maternity allowance was fixed by the Curtin Government in 1943. Child endowment for the first child has remained unaltered for 22 years and for the second child for 24 years. Families with 3 children in 1949 secured in child endowment a sum equal to 11.5 per cent of average weekly earnings. Today a family of the same size receives in child endowment a sum which is less than 4 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1948 the basic wage was $11.60 and a family with 5 children received in child endowment $4 a week. In order to receive the same monetary value in purchasing power today a family of that size should receive $17.60, but it receives only $8.25. Let us look at this from a different angle. In 1949 a man with a wife and 2 children, On the minimum wage, paid $1.60 a year in income tax. Under the revised scale of tax deductions issued with the Budget papers a man on the minimum wage of $51, with a family of the same number, will pay $2.36 a week or $132.98 per annum. He will pay more income tax in a week than a family of comparable size paid in a year in 1949. 
One would have thought that if the Government had wanted to do something about prices and inflation it would have reduced sales tax on a lot of commodities. Sales tax is the hidden thief which takes our money and adds to the cost of about one-third of the goods which are sold in Australia. This financial year the Commonwealth will collect from each man, woman and child in Australia about $59 in sales tax, which is more than $1 each a week. The bigger the family, the more sales tax is paid. Sales tax more than swallows up the 50c child endowment for the first child and $1 for the second child. Most people are unaware that they are making this contribution to the Commonwealth Treasury. Do they know that they pay sales tax on toilet soap but not on dog soap? Leading a dog's life has a different meaning these days. People pay sales tax on biscuits which they buy for their babies but not on dog biscuits. The mark-up, according to the Cosmetics and Toiletry Manufacturers Association, is being operated by the Government to the tune of 55c in every $2 spent on everything from hair cream to contraceptives. There is a 27i per cent sales tax on face powder, face cream and the like. There used to be an old song entitled 'Love Makes the World Go Round'. I do not know whether that applies today, but if it does there is a  27i  per cent tax on it. What was once a luxury tax now increases the cost of everyday necessities. It is an unfair tax because a man on $12,000 a year pays the same tax on razor blades as does a pensioner who needs to shave. Sales tax adds to the cost of living and therefore it adds to the cost of production and inflation. 
I was wrong when I said that there had been no reduction in the sales tax. I apologise most humbly. There has been some reduction. I forgot about it. The Budget states that exemption from sales tax will apply to imported works of art which are exempt from duty under various provisions in the customs tariff such as paintings, drawings and pastels executed entirely by hand and having a value exceeding $50 each; original engravings, prints and lithographs and original sculptures and statuary. They will be exempt from sales tax. What a vague idea of value. Imported works of art are exempt from sales tax but school requirements, including exercise books, are subject to a 15 per cent tax. I have mentioned how sales tax inflates prices. This Government does not propose to do anything about prices. It believes in giving to those who fix prices a free rein, lt is not a question of price control or no price control; it is a question of who controls the prices in this community. At the present time a mere total of 200 companies control prices in Australia. They meet in the secrecy of their board rooms. No evidence is given, no witnesses are called and there is no thought of the public interest. How different it is when the workers want an increase in the price of their labour; the workers have to appear before a tribunal, call evidence, call witnesses and the Government submits evidence in opposition to their claims. Even if they do prove their case in support of an increase it can be refused because it is not in the public interest. 
While the Prime Minister was calling on the unions a few months ago to practice restraint the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd put up the price of its steel by 5.3 per cent. That increase was reflected in almost everything, including food because these days a lot of food comes in cans which are made  from BHP products. With the increase in the price of steel, building costs went up and also the price of motor cars. During  the past 3 months the cost of living has  jumped by nearly $1 for a family living on ! the average wage. The Federal Government cannot escape the responsibility for the diminishing value of the dollar. As prices rise each dollar buys less. Taking the value of the dollar as being 100c in 1950 its value has dropped to less than 40c today. In 1950 a person could buy 1 lb of rump steak for 25c; today we would have to pay 120c per lb. A 2 lb loaf of bread cost 7c in 1950 but it now costs 25c. The cost of posting a letter was 1.7c but it is now 7c. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that as we have a system of wage justification we must also have a system of price justification. A Labor government will introduce 2 measures to implement its policy on this. Firstly, it will establish a price justification tribunal. Secondly, it will establish a parliamentary select committee on costs and prices. That committee will identify, publicise and otherwise expose unfair prices or practices and the exploitation of consumers. 
It will recommend to the Government any legislative or administrative measures which should be taken to prevent unjustifiable price increases and to protect Australia from excessive inflation. The Australian Labor Party also will take other necessary measures to deal effectively with the great concentration of foreign and local monopolistic power which exist in Australia and to eliminate trade practices which restrict competition and produce inefficiency and inflation. We can help to control inflation not only by justifying wage and salary increases but also by ensuring that price rises are justified. 
The Government, knowing that it is on the way out, has tried to retrieve the position. Its 1971 Budget deliberately created unemployment. It now realises that unless it can retrieve the position in the few weeks before the election, it has had it. The lesson of 1961 has been learned too late. The McMahon Government is on the way out. The in-fighting that has occurred indicates that it has more wings than a centipede has legs. Its wings are about to be singed. This Government will have a rough landing on polling day 1972. 
1 preface my question to the Minister for Immigration by drawing attention to his statement yesterday - I do not want to misquote him - to the effect that he was issuing instructions that migrants would be accepted only if they had special skills so that their acceptance would not aggravate the unemployment situation. I have not been able yet to check the Hansard report but I think that is what he said. I draw his attention to an advertisement appearing in the United Kingdom Daily Mirror' newspaper of 28th April 1972 which says: 
The average earnings of Australians are high: nearly 40 a week. Skilled men are paid the rate for their skill; and as Australia's expanding economy needs many skills, they get a good rate. 
What's more, our tax system is designed to encourage hard work. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he state in August 1971, when the2 per cent income tax levy was increased to 5 per cent, that tax instalment deductions would operate from 1st October 1971. 
If so, did the increased levy in fact operate retrospectively from1st July 1971. 
When the levy was reduced to 2 per cent in May 1972. did the reduction operate from the beginning of the financial year on 1st July 1971. 
If these are facts, why did the increase apply retrospectively but not the reduction. 
What was the actual rate of levy for the financial year 1971-72. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the minimum taxable income has remained at $417 for many years. 
If so, will the Government give consideration to fixing the minimum taxable income at  a  considerably higher figure. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government give consideration to an amendment to the taxation law to define (he term dependant' to mean any resident person who is solely or principally dependent on the taxpayer for maintenance and support. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he received a request from the Taxpayers Association that the Income Tax Assessment Act be amended consistently with the provisions in section 51a of that Act to allow an employee during a period of temporary transfer of his employment to a distant location, at which place he incurs rent of a private nature, a deduction subject to specified conditions and limitations equivalent to the amount of the net assessable income derived by him from the leasing of his permanent home. 
If so, what decision has he reached in the matter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he received a request from the Taxpayers Association that concessional deductions for dependants be increased and/or child endowment be increased to restore fiscal relativity between taxpayers wilh and without dependants. 
If so, what decision has he reached in the matter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he received a request from the Taxpayers Association that the field of Estate and Gift Duty be vacated by the Commonwealth. 
If so, what decision has he reached inthe matter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Hashe received a request from the Taxpayers Association that expenditure incurred by a taxpayer on his own education, when it is associated with the present or intended vocation of the taxpayer, be allowable as a taxation deduction or amortised over a period of years. 
If so, what decision has he reached in the matter. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Isit a fact that the Australian Post Office has followed  a  policy of giving much of its tele phone exchange installation work to private contractors since 1960. 
If so, does it take into account, when allotting this work, the eventual drop in morale of its own staff and job dissatisfaction that could lead to industrial unrest. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian Post Office intends to divest itself of all or most of its telephone exchange installation work to private contractors. 
If so, what is the rationale for the use of non-Australian Post Office resources in this field and what is the likely extent of their use up to 1976. 
I ask the Prime Minister, in the absence of the Treasurer, whether it is a fact that the  Chairman  of the Metropolitan Water Supply in Western Australia wrote to the Treasurer seeking Federal finance to assist in the sewerage of the metropolitan area of Perth. Did the  Chairman  state that this was necessary due to the possible health hazard of seepage from septic tanks into the underground water supply, some of which is used for domestic purposes? Is it a fact that less than 50 pei cent of the Perth metropolitan area is sewered? Would the Prime Minister agree that the financing of such a scheme would not only prevent a health hazard but also provide urgent employment for Perth's unemployed? What action is proposed? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What percentage of board money paid to a pensioner by a boarder is regarded as income. 
How many lodgers may be accommodated without reducing the pension. 
Is the value of the part of a property occupied by boarders taken into account when assessing the pension; if so, how is the value determined. 
Whatis the definition of a flat in a dwelling occupied by, a pensioner. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government give consideration to an alteration to the definition of 'resident' in section 79a of the Income Tax Assessment Act to include a person who has resided in the area for 6 months out of any 12 month period not necessarily coinciding with a financial year and to provide that where the taxpayer satisfies this amended part of the definition of 'resident' he be treated as a resident in the year of income in which that 12 months period concludes. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he received a request from the Taxpayers Association that consideration be given to allowing as a deduction under section51 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, or as a concessional deduction, some or all of any payments made for the care of a child where such payments are made directly or indirectly to enable the taxpayer to produce assessable income. 
If so, what decision has he reached in the matter. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Graduate Career Council's Newsletter of March 1972 in which the Council expressed the fear that the recent emergence of difficulties of various kinds in the placement of graduates creates an undesirable uncertainty in the minds of students and recent graduates as to the value of tertiary education and its relevance to satisfactory employment. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the annual report for 1971 of International Business 
Machines Australia Ltd wherein it is stated that high school students can use an IBM experimental computer system to examine career paths and the student can then instruct the system to print out details of selected careers, for later discussion with a guidance counsellor and parents. 
What is being done in Australia to ensure that jobs are available for students when they have completed their education. 
In discussing the estimates of the Department of Labour and National Service I want to say that the Government can make all the excuses it likes to make but it is clear that we are still faced with the most serious unemployment situation that has existed for over a decade. This is proved by the figures which are published by the Department of Labour and National Service under the heading 'Employment Situation'. When seasonally adjusted the latest figures show that over 120,000 people or 2.14 per cent of the work force are unemployed. This is an increase of 7,763 over the previous month. Job vacancies totalled just under 32,000 which means that almost 4 people are unemployed for every job vacancy offering. It is to the eternal discredit of the McMahon Government that the August 1971 Budget was framed with the deliberate intention of creating more unemployment in an effort to dampen down inflation. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  admitted that in his statement of 20th January last on the consumer price index. 
The 1971 Budget failed to dampen down inflation and left Australia with an unemployment pool that is now completely out of hand. The figures for each month are worse than those for the previous month, when properly analysed and seasonally adjusted. Of course, the suggestion is made that the situation will improve in the next quarter, but we will examine the figures when the time comes. We have found that the Minister refers to the actual unemployment figures for one quarter when they suit him, and in the next quarter refers to the seasonally adjusted figures because they suit him. 
The seasonally adjusted figures for Western Australia show an increase in the numbers of unemployed for July. The number is now 13,544 while job vacancies total 1,958. The gap between the number unemployed and the number of unfilled vacancies is 11,586. It means that nearly 7 people are unemployed for every job vacancy. The Government has been requested to provide special financial assistance to assist in creating employment for people unemployed in Western Australia, particularly in the metropolitan area of Perth. Finance could have been made available in many ways for urgent public works, but all that happened was that the Western Australian Government was given a temporary addition of $3m to its semigovernmental borrowing programme for 1972-73. That is not good enough. 
Some of the temporary increase in borrowing authority was made available to the Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board of Perth, but it is insufficient for its requirements. I point out to honourable members the contrast between that miserable addition of $3m to Western Australia's borrowing programme and the loan of $15m to the New South Wales Government to balance its Budget. That gives some idea of what is happening. The Commonwealth should make additional finance available to Western Australia to cope with sewerage problems. This would have an important effect on our unemployment problem. At the most only 50 per cent of the Perth metropolitan area is deep sewered. The septic tank system in Perth gives rise to a pollution danger. In Perth, because of the sandy soil, it is certain that at least some part of the septic tank effluent eventually finds its way into the water courses and drains. 
The Perth Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board is using substantial amounts of ground water from shallow bores and it must increase such usage as the demand for water grows. As pointed out by the  Chairman  of the Board, there is a risk to health through pollution of our water supply. The Board wants to overtake the major lag in the provision of sewerage in developed areas and to provide it in newly developed areas. Substantial amounts of finance are needed for this purpose. The Western Australian Government does not have that kind of finance and the only source from which it can come; - the Board does not have it - is the Federal Government. 
The importance of the Commonwealth's providing funds for this purpose lies in the fact that it would relieve our unemployment problem and set in motion an important public works programme that would safeguard our water supply from possible pollution. I emphasise that such work is labour intensive and quite a lot of the slack in employment could be taken up. It is ridiculous to expect the Western Australian Government to provide from its limited resources the finance necessary. The  Chairman  of the Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board in a letter to the Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  pointed out the difficulty that exists. The  Chairman  of the Board was good enough to give me a copy of the letter in which he stated: 
Perhaps to illustrate the position which the Board in the Perth metropolitan area finds itself, may I point out that out of an estimated $125m to $130m required for sewerage, out of the $245 m estimated as being needed for water and sewerage over the next 10 years, the Board would only be able to provide - if the same basis of capital funds for sewerage in 1970-71 were carried on - an amount of about $76.25m instead of the $125m to $130m over the next 10 years. 
That extract highlights the difficulties facing Western Australia in that area. In a letter to me dated 16th August 1972 the  Chairman  of the Board said: 
I must say that of all the replies that I have received, the Board cannot see yet any answer to its sewerage problem except the provision of the necessary shortfall of funds from Federal sources. 
The Premier of Western Australia made a submission in those terms in his application for a general increase in the funds necessary for Western Australia, but the result was an increase of $3m in the borrowing programme for 1972-73. That is not nearly enough. The unemployment situation in Western Australia could be relieved in another way. I refer to the provision of additional finance for the Western Australian State Housing Commission, particularly for the provision of houses for Aborigines. That need is apparent from headlines in the Press such as 'Native Housing Worst in World'. That headline referred not only to housing in Western 
Australia but also in Queensland and central Australia. It is a rather sad situation. In a newspaper article an American civil rights worker was reported to have said:  1 have never seen housing conditions anywhere in the world worse than the Aboriginal humpies - not in  Missisippi  Indian reserves, not in India or South East Asia - nothing has been worse. 
That is a sad reflection of our attitude towards the Aborigines. The Senate Committee was told that at least $20m was needed to overcome the backlog in housing for Aborigines. The Western Australian Commissioner for Aboriginal Planning,  Mr Gare,  said that a survey had shown that nearly 1,500 families were living in substandard housing in urban areas. That related to the Aboriginal population. The Manager of the State Housing Commission said that Western Australia wanted $10m over the next 2 years to eliminate the most urgent problems in Aboriginal housing. It wanted at least $20m over the next 5 years and $4m to $5m a year after that. So there are 2 ways in which the unemployment situation could be helped considerably in that State. 
This is a humane way of providing homes for Aborigines and at the same time keeping our building workers in full employment. Last month's figures on the unemployment situation in Western Australia showed that the number unemployed in the building trades was over 4 per cent, which was higher than the figure of 2.99 per cent for the general work force. The Federal Government has provided some funds for unemployment relief, but the tag attached to it is that it has to be spent in rural areas. Of course, this was a sop to the Country Party. It means that unemployed people in rural areas will receive between $50 and $60 a week on work subsidised by the Government while the unemployed in the city will receive the miserable unemployment benefit of $17 plus $8 for a wife and $4.50 for a child. The Western Australian unemployment problem is mainly in the metropolitan area where there are 9,000 people unemployed. The Federal Government has been asked for finance to relieve this situation but we have not been able to receive sufficient to do that. The Liberal Opposition in Western Australia tries to put the blame on the Labor Government there. But as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  admitted, this situation has been going on for 2 or 3 years. The Labor Government there has been in office for about only the last 18 months. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that a new organisation known as the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority has been set up in Western Australia to assist towards the integration of Western Australia's 28,000 Aborigines. 
Is it also a fact that the State Housing Commission has a formidable task in trying to adequately house the Aboriginal population and that it is estimated that about $30m will be required for this purpose. 
Will he give urgent consideration to the request of the Premier of Western Australia for Commonwealth assistance to the extent of $10m for this purpose. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  In doing so I point out that transport costs are exceptionally heavy in Australia. Moving people and goods in this country accounts for about 25 per cent of the national income and employs about onesixth of the work force. I believe it is inevitable that transport costs in this country should be high. Australia is approximately the size of the United States of America, but its population is about 13 million, compared with the United States population of about 190 million. However, the disparity in transport costs - between 25 per cent in Australia and 10 per cent in the United States and 9 per cent in Canada - is too great. It makes it necessary for us to achieve the greatest possible efficiency and economy in transport operations. 
In order to achieve that end we must develop a national transport system adequate to meet the needs of future development, lt must co-ordinate all forms of transport so that the most economical use is made of each means of transport, supplementing rather than competing with each other. Such a national plan should take into account the future construction of road, rail, air and shipping services so that each service fits into the plan as traffic grows with development. 
The only body that can initiate a national plan is the Commonwealth Government. It controls shipping and air transport. By agreement with the States it has been playing a part in the construction and standardisation of strategic railways. It also makes grants for road construction. The national plan would require the Commonwealth to consider arranging with the States Commonwealth jurisdiction over ports, bearing in mind that there are 90 ports in Australia administered by more than 30 authorities. A programme should be outlined for port development and coastal shipping. It must also take into account the part that air transport will play in the overall plan. Railways must play a big part in the national plan. In many overseas countries, the railways are again coming into their own. In Japan they are engaged in building a nation-wide network of super-express lines. In France, there is an experimental train doing 205 miles an hour. In the United States of America the metroliners are doing over 100 miles an hour. In the United Kingdom, similar experiments are taking place. On the other hand, in Australia we get the picture of a rundown, dirty, inefficient system with worrying deficits. 
There has never been a more opportune time that now to do something about this. The updating of our railway systems requires large public investment. The Commonwealth Government will have to come to the party. That emphasises the nature of the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition, which proposes how this should be done. This Government, pressurised by the motor car industry, seems to think that motor traffic is the beginning and the end of everything. The vision of this Government and some of the State governments seems to be limited to building more, roads and expressways to handle the ever-increasing road traffic. I draw the attention of honourable members to a statement made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport on 6th October when he said: 
It must be a source of continuing disappointment to some State Ministers for Transport to see railways treated as the Cinderella in their State budgets because of the lack of priority accorded them among the many competing demands. 
Of course that is so. The States just have not the finance to handle the gigantic problem with which they are faced and that is why the amendment which the Opposition has moved is so important. The Minister continued: 
At the same time the railways of Australia, as their collective name shows so clearly, are of national importance. On the latest estimates, our national rail system accounted for about 30 per cent of total domestic freight movement, and the railway^' traffic task has been increasing. 
In that statement, the Minister for Shipping and Transport drew attention to the national importance of our railways system but, of course, the Commonwealth has not done sufficient about it. The Minister went on to say: 
To assist in this national requirement, the Commonwealth has over the years concentrated its efforts in the railways field in the standardisation programmes. In all, in the 20 years since 1951-52, the Commonwealth has outlaid more than $205 m by way of grants and loans . . . 
The Minister went on to point out that the Government has provided nearly $40m on other railway projects with the aim of overall national railway extension and improvement. So, over a period of 20 years, the capital made available by the Commonwealth to railways amounted to $245m. But when we compare this provision of capital with the amount made available for roads over the same period, we get a glaring situation of inadequate finances made available for railways. For example, between 1951-52 and 1971-72 an amount of over $2,063m was provided for roads, none of which was repayable or interest-bearing, while over the same period only $245m was provided for railways which amount was mainly for rail standardisation. Some of this capital provision was by way of grants but more than half must be repaid in addition to interest on outstanding balances. 
It should be remembered that the railways provide and maintain their own tracks, signalling, etc. This is financed by capital upon which interest must be paid and depreciation provided for. The railways also provide many services free or at less than cost. For instance, pensioners travel free of charge on the Western Australian railways and at half rates in other States. School children receive concession rates on the railways and country interests receive special treatment. Of course, all this is at the expense of the railways. Nobody claims that this should not be so but it merely indicates how the railways are disadvantaged. 
On the other hand, the road industry has its roads provided at public expense and the industry provides none of these social services that I have just mentioned. The city traffic is growing heavier and is being increasingly handled by buses and motor cars. Fewer people are using railways and losses are increasing. Traffic congestion, delays and parking problems increase as the number of motor cars rises. That is why in other countries the major cities have had to resort to mass transportation by rapid transit systems. In some countries the monorail has been installed and in others underground railways have been constructed. We too must consider alternative ways of moving people and goods. The railways must play a bigger part in this operation. I should like to draw the attention of honourable members to an article which appeared in the November issue of 'Rydge's'. 
Will you keep your trap shut?  Mr Brown,  when he was speaking as  chairman  of commissioners for the Victorian Railways, defined the railways' economic role as 'the carriage of large amounts of traffic on high density routes between points of traffic concentration.' The article states:  lt is the total traffic density over a specific route that is the principal factor determining whether rail will be the economical mode for the task', he stated. 'Other factors, such as the length of the route, the classes of traffic being handled over it, and the degree of congestion on the parallel road system must, of course, be taken into account, but these factors play a subsidiary role to traffic density. 
This definition of the railway role arises from the nature of the railway cost structure, in which over 60 per cent of total costs relate to items which do not vary in the short term in accordance with fluctuations in the volume of traffic, and ensures that additional traffic can be handled on specific routes at a less than proportionate increase in total costs.' 
The Commonwealth Department of Shipping and Transport's Bureau of Transport Economics in its urban public transport study showed the need for financial aid for rail and urban transport. The study stated: 
The review of statistical and financial data supported the view that public transport fulfils a vital function in capital cities, that current levels of capital expenditure are inadequate and that public transport authorities cannot finance an appropriate level of investment from current revenue sources. 
Obviously, this Government must provide adequate finance for the public transport needs of the States. For example, in Western Australia there is a proposal before the Government for a Perth regional transport plan involving 6 miles 2 chains of electric railway, about half of which is to be underground, and a bus route. It incorporates a huge capacity rail rapid transport system and an extensive bus system feeding into rail. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he take action to give effect to the recommendations of the Loder Committee in regard to concessions in income tax, payroll tax and custom duties with the object of encouraging the development of Northern Australia. 
